ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 4th working week Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts or enquiries. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 2 (1) of the Law Enforcement Act, the prevention of threats to public order by law enforcement, the identification of threats in case of suspicion, the prevention of threats and the elimination of breaches of public order. In accordance with paragraph 4, national supervisory authorities shall act with a view to preventing, detecting, deterring or eliminating a threat. On 3 February 2022, the police were not guided by these values and by the law. Instead, we saw police officers attack people, pull them down, give unreasonable and illegal orders, prevent peaceful people from exercising their legal rights, including the basic right to stay in public space. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In this connection, the Estonian Conservative People's Party will forward an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior. We want clarity and answers to our questions. For example, how does police action in this incident match police objectives, such as the fact that a person is the most important, quick and wise help and justice is being served? How does police work in harmony with police values, such as humanity and wisdom, on 3 February?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U3	No further drafts or inquiries are recommended. I have therefore adopted one inquiry and, of course, we will decide on its further processing in the Bureau in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U4	63 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, We have an item on the agenda today, an important national issue, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, entitled "Implementation of the concept of the development of civil society in Estonia." Let me brief you on how we are going to deal with this today. First, the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani, receives the floor with a presentation of up to 15 minutes and 20 minutes for questions and answers. Then Kai Klandorf, Head of the NGO Association, will give a presentation for up to 15 minutes and questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. The third report is from the company and the co-founder of the technology company Bolt Martin Villig, up to 15 minutes, questions-answers for 20 minutes. And finishes Toomas Kivimägi, report up to 15 minutes and questions-answers the same way for 20 minutes. In agreement with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have determined that any member of the Riigikogu may ask a single question to any rapporteur. Then there is the round of negotiations. The request is that during the negotiations, the representatives of the political groups should speak first. Once we have finished this debate, we will not adopt a separate Riigikogu decision here. I will also say in advance, at the request of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that if we do not reach one o'clock, then the proposal is to extend the sitting, but no longer than two o'clock. Well, good Riigikogu, now we are going to the debate on this point. Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners and waitresses! I have the honour to begin today's debate on a key national issue about the development of civil society, namely the implementation of the concept of the development of Estonian civil society approved here in 2002. I am also pleased that today's debate is taking place, despite the continuing pandemic in Estonia and the world. The last debate planned for spring 2020 was, unfortunately, delayed and delayed by the pandemic. Finally, together with the colleagues of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, we found that it is better now to move forward with these discussions. In a situation where, in the light of recent events, much has rightly been said about security, internal security and border management, we can also talk about other areas of activity of the Ministry of the Interior. Today we are talking about civil society. This is the continuation of today's debate at the conference centre of the Riigikogu to the public joint sessions of the three committees on 28 September 2021, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Social Affairs Committee and the Committee on Culture. How is civil society? I dare say that there is a strong and free civil society in Estonia. A few facts to support that. Civil society's contribution to the economy has increased. In 2019, civic NGOs earned 207 million euros in entrepreneurial income, 164 million euros in non-profit organisations, which is about 2% of Estonia's GDP. NGOs employ nearly 12,000 people. In 2018, the number of employees of social enterprises, i.e. organisations generating social benefits, increased by 23% compared to 2014, business income increased by 53% and total income by 43%. At the end of 2019, almost 1800 employees were employed in social enterprises and their business income amounted to almost EUR 45 million. Every other person in Estonia has been voluntary. According to a study commissioned by the Ministry of the Interior, nearly 49% of the Estonian population have participated in volunteering during the year preceding the survey. In 2013, there were a third of such people, 30%. The people of Estonia are more involved in charity and more donors are coming for charity. Between 2015 and 2020 donations to charity have increased by 58%. While EUR 30 million was donated to NGOs in 2015, it was already EUR 48 million in 2020. The additional possibility of donating income tax refunds to eligible non-governmental organisations in 2020 has been used more than 7300 times for a total amount of more than EUR 300000. This year, the Estonian civil society's concept of development, or the adoption of EKAK, is 20 years away. The principles contained in this document are also valid today. In order to maintain and develop democratic regimes, public authorities need to listen to and cooperate with citizens. Everyone has the right to exercise himself in order to support a democratic state. In the spirit of the concept, we have developed a coherent development plan for Estonia 2021.2030, of which the Riigikogu spoke on 12 October 2021. It is a development plan that includes issues for the development of civil society and sets objectives for the development of civil society. Therefore, it is appropriate to talk about this in today's discussion on the implementation of the EKAK, as the coherent Estonian development plan will continue to implement the objectives and principles of the EKAK. The objective of the coherent Estonian development plan is to make Estonia binding and co-creative in the next decade, and it is also the foundation of a secure society. Today, the issue under discussion in the Riigikogu, i.e. the development of civil society, is addressed by the development plan's programme 'Estonian People'. Within this programme, our focus will be on the following. We are developing a community-centred approach to encourage local authorities to identify and network actors from their communities, including public service providers, private operators and representatives of the free sector. We create a wide range of opportunities for people to shape their well-being and living environment, to engage in decisions and thereby contribute to the development of the country. In order for people to have ample opportunity to participate in social and community life, the development plan envisages a number of activities, both to increase people's activity and the capacity of communities and NGOs, and to develop the services of the state and local government into community-centred activities. Social activity is also the basis for joint action and for the development of strong communities. To this end, we will provide advice to citizens' initiatives and associations that are starting and operating. We test new opportunities for participation in communities, create diverse opportunities for volunteering, support the activities of social enterprises and promote charity. We will also ensure that public money is used transparently so that all those who wish have equal access to support opportunities, as well as, of course, opportunities for swift and flexible action by civil society. In any case, in order to achieve these objectives, we need to implement innovative ways of implementing the objectives of civil society, in any case greater private sector involvement, remove restrictions on the financial instruments of the business sector and of civil society, in order to ensure that entrepreneurship civil society organisations also have access to entrepreneurship measures and create a favourable tax environment for charitable activities, thereby creating greater social welfare. It is precisely this last tax environment for charity that I would like to talk about. What can be done to give individuals and businesses greater opportunity to contribute to the public interest and social well-being? The influence of donation as a sub-category of charity is most dependent on the state than on the environmental regulator of charity. The most intensive impact on charity through donation is taxation and tax incentives for private donations, which are also actively used in other countries, such as the Netherlands, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Germany and elsewhere. The wider objective of the tax credit is to encourage and support behaviour that brings benefits to society beyond the loss of tax revenue. The money donated to charity will save lives, help those in trouble and organise cultural and sporting events and groups of interests. Perhaps the money collected as donations will actually be returned to the economy. The alternative to charity or donation is to pay for the same activities from the tax money or to stop offering these necessary activities. I will give you some examples of charity on the basis of 2020. From the list of the most successful donors, we find: the Cancer Treatment Fund Gifted Living €3.3 million collected donations; the Tallinn Children's Hospital Support Fund €1.3 million collected donations; the Estonian-Holland Charity Fund or Food Bank €0.8 million; the Salvation Army in Estonia €0.7 million collected donations. A total of about 1,500 NGOs actively collect donations. It is true that one third of the funds donated to charity are divided between a dozen major charities, but each donation, each euro counts. Today's situation is that legal persons can make donations to non-governmental organisations within certain limits exempt from tax and natural persons can deduct contributions from their tax revenue if they have no other deductions. But what's the problem? The people of Estonia are good donors. At the same time, we need to think about how the country can create better conditions for improving the donation environment. Estonia is located in 53rd place in the international donation table World Giving Index 114 countries. Although we are the first in the Baltic countries, we still have room for improvement compared to many welfare countries, such as the Netherlands, Denmark and Sweden. In particular, the problem is that although the state formally sends a message that by donating to a public-interest non-governmental organisation, the state amplifies this donation by a refundable income tax, this is not the case in practice. Donations and gifts are in the state's view equivalent to the cost of household credit, training costs, etc. This can be used for deductions up to EUR 1200 per year. For example, in 2020 there were over 15000 people in Estonia who donated a total of 4.8 million euros but could not deduct the amounts donated from the income, because the deduction limit was met due to the deduction of costs incurred in private interests. What could be the solution? For example, a separate threshold could be set for private donations, which would not depend on other deductions. What is the limit is already a matter of a separate agreement. There are also obstacles to the participation of companies in charitable activities. While the volume of donations from private individuals has substantially tripled and the number of donors has increased more than three times since 2012, the number of donations from companies has not increased in the same volume. During the same period, donations from legal persons have only increased by 16%. But this will be discussed by Martin Villig, the third waitress today. In short, I believe that the state can remove at least some of the obstacles that businesses face in contributing to civil society and charity. Currently, legal persons can only make donations to non-governmental organisations for a limited amount of income tax exemption. How can we deal with this situation? The conditions and limits set for companies to donate for charitable purposes must be reviewed, solutions should be found in cooperation with businesses and partners, making the conditions and limits currently in force more flexible. However, there is no need to fear a significant additional burden on the state budget for these proposals. The fact is that part of the donations comes directly back to the state budget as taxes, because the donations buy goods-services and pay wages. The point of charity is the action of the Government of the Republic in the action programme and I will soon bring more concrete proposals to the government. Finally, I would like to point out that a strong civil society is the cornerstone of a democratic state that must be built together. The topics I spoke about in today's presentation have also been heard in this Chamber 20 years ago when the concept of the development of Estonian civil society was adopted. I am sure that the importance of these issues will also be of national importance in the coming decades. I would like to have a constructive debate today and I hope that your reflection will be as soon as the proposals that have been spoken reach the Riigikogu for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U7	Thank you, Minister. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You also spoke here, within the framework of civil society, about internal security and voluntary assistance to the police. So far, intercourse has become an official number of police officers almost equal to the number of auxiliary police officers. How do you think this will affect the processing of crimes if this composition has fallen to such a large extent, because help police officers cannot deal with crimes, and we know that the deadlines for proceedings are very, very long? How does this affect what we do in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U9	Thank you for your question. Assistant policemen, volunteers at all, certainly show the strength of the state. There are over 4,500 people working at the PBA, and we have 1 200 circa. Indeed, 4500 are not all police officers, there are fewer police officers, special servants. And, of course, when we look at the conduct of criminal proceedings, we must also look at the environment. Crime has decreased, of course, the content of the crimes has changed. There are more crimes that are committed in cyberspace, more violence in the relationship, but fewer crimes against property, for example. The fact that fewer people are involved in criminal proceedings in the 20-year perspective goes along with the environment, because there are also fewer crimes than 20 years ago. Yes, the nature of crime has changed a lot. Volunteers will certainly not be dealing with offences now or in the future, this cannot be the case, nor has it been put into practice in any country in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U10	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna pick up where Kert Kingo left off, namely the police officers. It is a pleasure to hear you commend the helping policemen to make a major contribution to the development of social security, and so on. But it seems that security is so high that it has also started to release auxiliary police officers, just as Jaak Madison, in principle, was removed from the status of an assistant police officer, despite being very active, also helped to ensure public order through the citizens' initiative. It's very, very nice to hear there's no more crime. But you must understand my irony. Why was Jaak Madison relieved of the status of a deputy police officer when he wanted to contribute to society? To protect his rights, he was forced to go to court against his release.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U12	Thank you for your question. Crime, yes, unfortunately, hasn't been completely eradicated, I haven't said it either. Unfortunately, crime still exists. As far as the Madison case is concerned, this must be asked specifically by the Police and Border Guard Board, as the Minister of the Interior does not deal directly with these matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U13	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U14	We all see massive human smuggling unfolding on the Polish-Lithuania border. Let's wait for it to roll in here. This process is not over, we are making an effort. But at the same time, some groups have been disguised as human rights activists. I have no doubt that there are serious human rights activists, too. [But there are also those] who actually roof human smugglers and walk by their hands to pull these same economic refugees across the border, etc., etc. There are many examples. What can be done in such cases? Is there any way to correct them, in the past, so that they do not become either unsuspecting, naivety, or consciously extending the hand of human smugglers? The state will give these human rights activists money, yes. Eventually, they work against the state and help tear down the fence at the national border.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U15	Thank you for your question. Indeed, organized crime groups also take advantage of those who have entered the country illegally or legally and, indeed, for money they also help to move people forward. And such examples have also been very close to us here when we talk about how illegal people entered Lithuania, Latvia or Poland. I have not personally seen the roof of such human smugglers as a human rights activist organisation. In general, human rights organisations play a very right and good role. I've never seen anyone do anything illegal under a roof like this. However, organized crime groups have taken advantage of this situation and earned money from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U16	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U17	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Civil society organisations perform very important functions in society. What you have said today is that, through the creation of charity and a favourable tax environment, the possibility of more donations must be given is certainly very important. However, in my view, the question may also arise as to whether civil society organisations have to perform so much of the functions that are often to be performed by the state itself. After all, even those mentioned by you, the Cancer Treatment Fund, Tallinn Children's Hospital or mental health organisations fill the gap that the state itself cannot fill with the funding of the Health Insurance Fund and where the state has not been able to ensure sufficient health. Similarly, there is an example of bullying-free education. These are places where a country like this can't cope. My question is this: will you look at what they show as an indication of where the state does not perform its functions adequately in parallel with civil society activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U18	Thank you. That's a good question. Civil society is based on a very specific free will. Very many people, as well as businesses, have a great desire to contribute themselves and personally to some area. Of course, the [connectors] that you have even highlighted, such as the Cancer Treatment Fund, have also emerged on a voluntary basis. Yeah, there's been some kind of indicator that may have forced such a fund to be set up. Indeed, there could always be a hypothetical question as to why the state itself could not do so, but while there is a voluntary [functioning] civil society phenomenon, people and companies who want to contribute themselves to this area, I do not see in themselves the problem that should be resolved in any way. If we look at how much the country itself has once again supported civil society NGOs, we will see that this amount in itself was, indeed, EUR 167 million a few years ago. This is within the scope of grants, projects and all kinds of topics. And local authorities in turn [have contributed] 64 million. So once again, I think this is just the place where a person wants to bet himself personally. These opportunities are created in the country and are used by people. So I think it is more important to support this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U19	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U20	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. And thanks to Margit Sutrop for a good question, it is starting to look like a debate. I fully agree that there are many roles in how a person can bet, give or participate. Really, it can also be through donation. At the same time, I think that participation in other ways [is important]. This requires a degree of social trust. A person needs to understand that he can change something, that a partnership with a country can be on fair terms and that he is given a role, that is not an act. So trust is a prerequisite, but this process should result in even more trust. If you go through all of this, you'll see that the result is something that improves the environment at school without bullying, makes things better for newborns, etc. My question is: if you look to the future, what is it that a country could do for its part? What else can be done to support more people who believe that their contribution is useful and that they can make a difference? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U21	Thank you. I will perhaps give an example here of what the country can still do. I will, for example, bring volunteer sprayers, marine rescuers and relief policemen. What the country can do, we have done. If the state supports or provides budgetary resources for some projects, such as NGOs, then the project economy is extremely bureaucratic. Without it, you can't, because when the state gives money, of course, the state must also look where the money went, for what purposes and so on. But I am quite convinced that the process is too bureaucratic. People do all of this out of their free will, they go out of their free will to put out the fire, and then they have to do the whole of this project economy's reporting of free will. This should be made easier. I have one very important objective today: to make this process easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U22	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. One good example of the citizens' initiative and civil society is the male and female team of aid police officers, which you have already mentioned. Often, I think, even if the various tax incentives were to be riddled with, perhaps the other half of the adjustment, i.e. how much this citizens' initiative actually saves the country. From this point of view, my question: have you been raking around the house, that if there were not 1,200 auxiliary police officers, how much more would you have to hire policemen who are 100% on the taxpayer's payroll to perform these same duties? I think that if this has not been done, it could be done to show really how important a material contribution is, in fact, through voluntary work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U24	Thank you for your question. That is a good question, but that is not the way to put it. This is why it is not possible for auxiliary police officers, as volunteers, to be brought into life not to replace police action, but to be a partner and to add something to police action and to contribute voluntarily. It should be possible to order a volunteer to do something on the basis of your task, but it is not and it cannot be. The state cannot order a volunteer, but a volunteer can only do this [work] on a voluntary basis, be it an assistant police officer or a squirtman. So it would not be right to do such a calculation in this form simply in the bud, because once again, the aim is not for the relief police to replace the police. One interesting example, let me give you this. I don't remember the country, but somewhere in Europe, I was talking about our relief police system and how they are regulated in our law by the law of an auxiliary police officer, they have social guarantees and so on, and they do it all for free. Then they asked me, the unions in the other country asked me how it was possible that the unions would agree that some policemen would work for free. I said no, it's not quite the case that some cops work for free, but it is on the basis of free will, and it's just extra, in addition to what the cops do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U25	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Regrettably, at the moment, we have completely missed how one free will initiative becomes a service partner in the country by law. Take, for example, the responsibility of ensuring the well-being of pets when they go wandering, or the services of shelter for women brought into the Norwegian project, which will at one point become a service that the local government will obtain. My question, however, concerns whether we are dealing with this side, as is actually the case. We commit by law, not-for-profit volunteers do so, the local government is obliged to do so, but at one point the municipality is going to organise public procurements on topics and it actually turns out that the expectations that society has been pursuing, whether for building buildings or for creating certain conditions, cannot be met. Why is this initiative not about this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U27	Thank you. The question is, once again, the right one. Once again, I will give an example of life itself: many things, very good things are brought to life on a project basis, and they will work very well until the project funding ends. Then the question arises as to how to proceed with this very good project and who will take the role of whether this is done by the local authority, is again a civil society initiative or is the responsibility of the state. These examples, which I have encountered myself, have a great deal to do with drug prevention projects. The Institute for Health Development has had a lot of good projects, rehabilitation projects that have been project-based, but in recent years a very specific direction has emerged: the project base has disappeared and the state has indeed started to treat such projects from the state budget not as a project, but as a really systemic activity, which is very much needed. So I think that's definitely the way to go. However, it cannot be ruled out again that we were talking here about women's shelters and shelters, that such places are once again being held by some kind of non-governmental organisation, which in turn is supported by the state and local government. At the same time, it is certainly cheaper to provide this support than to keep something up on its own. There is also a civil society initiative, because it wants to do it itself and does it very professionally.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U28	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. We have all seen that during the pandemic part of civil society did not trust the government, did not trust the protection measures, and did not want much cooperation. My question: do you see this as a risk to the functioning of civil society, or was the actions and behaviour of these people rather predictable and a natural phenomenon of civil society?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U30	Thank you. Civil society, of course, is also moving along with exactly what is in the environment around us. If we look at whether people have contributed more or less to civil society during a pandemic, for example, because there was a risk that people would no longer contribute so actively during a pandemic, then we can see that the number of donations to civil society during the pandemic has not decreased. This is once again very positive. I think that will also answer your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U31	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Very good report. Thank you. It is good to hear that donation to charity is increasing in Estonian society. It also shows that the better society is doing, the more we develop, the more we think about it, that if we are good ourselves, we want to help others too. My question is: has there also been research in Estonia that, if you make favourable tax terms for donors, will there be more?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U33	Thank you for your question. I know exactly that in terms of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship, Martin Villig is actually talking about this potential. I can get one number, it's a long perspective, 300 million. But the next reports will bring it up.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U34	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U35	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I, too, thank you for pointing out these bottlenecks, such as donations, and you are also going to the government on this issue. But before World War II, Estonian society was even more active than we are today. And then, when Estonia first elected the president, the people were also able to vote. Do you think that the President's direct election would contribute to the development of civil society? Can we go back to this topic so that the President can be directly elected by the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U36	Thank you for your question. Good question. I guess he is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U37	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U38	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much for this specific report. I think there are a lot of different aspects here. But I'd like to continue with Professor Sutrop's question. Actually, I don't have a question, I want to be more specific. I want to say what Professor Sutrop may have expected of you, that the free will of civil society cannot actually replace the actions that we expect our rulers to do. Perhaps the same cancer treatment fund has not come about simply because people want to do it, but because of the distress of a particular person, the woes of Hille Street Suu, who did not receive treatment [for state money]. We know that it will take three and more years for Estonia to reach a new drug patient in cancer treatment. It's a sore spot. Everywhere in the other countries of the European Union, [medicines are received earlier]. The Cancer Treatment Fund has emerged from this alone. Because these people are waiting every day for them not to die tomorrow. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So I would like to say this: do not say that this is just because they want to do it. Much is coming from what the country should do and protect, with big holes in it, say, like Dutch cheese or rather Swiss cheese. I mean, we should keep a balance there, too. I don't have a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U39	Thank you. I'm still answering. I fully agree that there are certainly areas where the main responsibility lies with the state, and there must be, also in the area that you have touched on here. At the same time, there are some areas where civil society is much faster and more flexible and able to provide services more quickly. But once again, in those places where the country still has the main responsibility, if there is also a civil society element, it is the task of the state to promote it and to help it develop as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U40	Good minister! Now, here's the thing. The appointment with you is about to be over. But it seems that the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you very much for your presentation. You are, of course, welcome to listen to the debate. Now we ask the Head of the NGO Association of the Riigikogu speech chair to Kai Klandorf. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U41	Minister, Members of the Riigikogu, listeners! I want to tell you today about one of my examples. I want to tell you about our family's grandmother, my child's great-grandmother. This is a woman who has gone to a funeral too many times in her 85's. A noticeable part of this long life he has spent in Siberia. When he returned home, he bought and fought a piece of his farm back. A home farm where my child can now be proud to say that he is the seventh generation. Malle is our parent's name. He lives entirely in an area that can be said to be peripheral. Five kilometers from the Latvian border, 15 kilometers from the nearest city, Apest, Latvia. The product needed for life is bought by Grandma once a week at a car shop, and her health is also cared for by a family doctor over 80 years of age. Can you imagine? You have to take the morning bus to the doctor. And after my 85-year-old grandmother's waited about five hours, she gets home on the bus. Growing medical and electrical bills cost Grandma, like other people her age, from her modest pension. But I'm not talking about Grandma today because I remind you of low pensions, socio-economic inequality or lack of access to the necessary services outside county centres. I am telling you about your grandmother because, although she has been repressed, although she has been deported, although she has lost a great deal in life, even though she has buried her son, among other things, who could not be helped by public health care, although she has to cope with a small amount of pension, she has not become bitter after all. He's not angry or disappointed. On the contrary, despite all this, our family's grandmother still finds enthusiasm, time, and opportunity to think about others. Nevertheless, our grandmother is a donor, even a permanent donor, and for several years in a row, she has also supported the Gifted Life of the Cancer Treatment Fund. For a reason, too. But why is his donation important? By means of donations, we can help those who need support because of an accident, a difficult fate, or wrong choices. Those who have come into a situation that none of us are actually safe from to the end and where, in fact, we often rely on the goodness of others. Charity is an effective tool to prevent such concerns, so that these accidents and wrong choices are less and less in the future. To solve and prevent various problems, to reach where the state does not always reach, in addition to the Cancer Treatment Fund, there are more than 2,500 organisations in Estonia that collect donations, save lives, organise cultural and sporting events, carry learning and recreational circles and protect democracy with the help of donors. Many of these NGOs are known here by most of us: Food Bank, SOS Children's Village, Salvation Association, Invisible Animals, Free School, NGO of Shadowplaces, Estonian Nature Foundation, Youth School etc. All these associations and donors are actually part of civil society. Civil society is viable when there are active and informed people who use opportunities and channels to participate in society, act as volunteers, join an organisation themselves, participate in decision-making in shaping their lives, associate themselves with the community, local government or, of course, at national level, with initiatives close to their heart and donate. In many ways, my grandmother is an average donor, I must say. Among donors, for example, there are twice as many women as men. True, most donors are a little younger, among women my age, not among grandmothers. Fortunately, donation is on the rise regardless of age and gender. In 2020, donations were declared in Estonia for almost 49 million euros. Just five years ago, this amount was EUR 18 million less. It's a rapid rise, we donate more and more money, and more and more. There's actually a lot to be thankful for. You could say that charity is doing well. So what's the real problem with this seemingly nice state of affairs? Looking at the other side of the coin, we have to admit that there are three people in Estonia who do not do this for every permanent donor. We can see that the average donor's contribution to charity is about as much a month as it takes for a good cup of coffee. Hopefully it's not too much to say that we could bet a little more on charity than on coffee. Pretty sure we could bet more than a cup of coffee a month on charity. In economic prosperity, we are a society in a country where, in fact, it should not be unthinkable for most of us to place a percentage or a few of our incomes into charity. The collection of donations and promotion of donation culture are jointly carried out by the same NGOs as I mentioned earlier. And in cooperation with these same associations, there have already been three annual donations. The purpose of donations is to raise awareness about donation and collection of donations. Hundreds of NGOs have proved year after year that they are capable partners for the state and an indispensable tool for many in need. Now it's the state's turn. It is the order of the state to place the culture of donation under its shoulders. The first is to start with: a separate threshold could be set for private donations to facilitate donations, which would not depend on other deductions. Currently, self-donors, all taxpayers, have the right to use deductions of up to 1200 euros per year. This limit is, of course, calculated not only on donations but also on home loan interest rates, all kinds of training costs, etc. Thus, if a person has a home bought with a bank loan, as many do, and he or his or her child attends a kindergarten, language school, or some other kind of community or practice, then nothing can actually be recovered from the donation. If there were a separate threshold for donations in the public interest, which would not depend on deductions for its own benefit, every 100 euros would, of course, be paid to the whole society through its activities. However, the donor would receive back 20 euros in income tax as a contribution from the state. For years, philanthropy advocates have advocated that every responsible person can donate 10% of his or her income. Perhaps, instead of 1200 euros or any other number, this 10% tax-free limit for donations in Estonia could be. That would be pretty fancy. The State would then deliberately encourage any non-governmental organisation to call for permanent donors with a specific tax refund, permanent supporters. The promotion of a culture of donation is necessary not only to support the capacity of NGOs and to alleviate the various social disadvantages, but in fact to improve the coherence and well-being of the whole society. Putting our donation somewhere connects us to this field. This is an important part of social activity, contributing to the functioning of civil society and thus, in fact, democracy. And as if it were not enough, in fact, studies show that, to put it simple, giving also contributes to the happiness of the donor. I like to think that Grandma Malle, too, is a little happier when she can contribute to the area close to her soul in a way and amount, and if she knows that thanks to this donation someone else's life will get a little better. I wouldn't want the others of us, most of whom have actually treated life much less favourably than Grandma Malle, to fall under it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U42	Yeah. The members of the Riigikogu now ask. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U43	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, It's been a long time since I heard anything so good in this hall. Thank you. But I would ask you that if now every person really does contribute 10% of his income, that's a transformation. There's no way we can raise the tax burden here. We're going down 32% quietly. But that would be an important increase in the tax burden. What's the change that could come with? At present, we feel that, for example, in the social field, there is a lack of country, that there is a need for additional money for health care, that funding for higher education needs to be significantly increased. If this type of financial resources really move to support the functioning of civil society organisations, what do you see, what type of service support is what more could be done through civil society?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U44	Thank you. In this sense, of course, this 10% is ambitious. You can't do it at once and now, you have to step by step. [[Riina Sikkut comments on the floor.]] Yeah, sure. The areas in which donations can be directed are, in fact, all that we already know. Just as those organisations that I read out, and which the Minister has already spoken about, all those that are active, for example, in the field of medicine or education. They actually do these activities and offer services that the state does not reach. In fact, the state will not lose in terms of increasing donations and channelling these organisations. First of all, we win because of these activities. And when we look at where most organisations are actually channeling this money, we see that they're channeling it back to activities. They pay their own wages, and the state gets some of that money back to itself. Maybe in fact this money will be in circulation, it won't go away, it's not like a third-sector pot where we put it away and lose it as a country. It gets back into circulation, just a little bit more of a circle and maybe more of a efficiency.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U45	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U46	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, good luck and good health to your grandmother Malle!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U48	But I wanted to ask you about it. When you were talking about donations and tax refunds, I remembered that when I filled in last year's tax return, I was actually surprised that some of the non-profits to whom I had made the donation were there, but some weren't there again. Can you tell me what the difference is? Have these NGOs checked in, or why did I have some of the declarations and some of them I recognized that they didn't come in? I'm sorry for such a question! Crazy maybe, but maybe you can comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U49	Well, donations returned in general with a tax return should be able to be directed to all 2500 organisations that have registered themselves as a public interest organisation that collects donations. Why they were not now exactly visible in that declaration, perhaps for technical reasons, I do not yet know exactly how to answer that question. However, if the organizations to which you donated are among those 2,500, they should actually all come out of there and everyone should be visible there as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U50	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I want to see if my ear caught one of those embarrassing facts from the men's side. Did you say that there are twice as many women as donors as there are men?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U52	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U53	If so, have you examined the reason for this? And could our pain be a little compensated by the fact that supposedly men donate somewhat more than women?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U54	Yes, we can see in this some kind of mitigating fact that donations actually, well, this is a problem in itself again, and the pay gap is also reflected. Men donate more, but fewer men donate. In total, the sum of this image is quite equivalent. But the truth is, if the same number of men were donated, if they were donated by women, that bet would certainly be much bigger.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U55	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U56	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, Thank you very much for this very emotional but meaningful presentation. And please pass on my thanks not only to your grandmother, but to all the members of the NGOs who do this very important work every day. I think there's a lot of ways to ease this job. Less bureaucracy of this is what the Minister has already talked about, a very great uncertainty about funding, certainly an increase in the number of donors. You also talked about, indeed, what is going to happen: to talk about a more favourable tax environment. My question is whether your Union and your members of the Union have thought not only of promoting this donation culture and creating more favourable conditions, but also of promoting a culture of gratitude, because it seems to me that in many ways we are lacking and maybe here the State or even the Ministry of Education and Research could actually teach people from low ground to say thank you. I have a feeling we have a lot of problems with that, too. This could be promoted very much. It's very easy to say thank you for what you did, but, unfortunately, it seems to be one of the hardest things on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U57	I can safely claim that this is not really a difficult thing for donations collecting organizations. They know how hard it really is. And we will see whether, for example, the organisation Free School has made it very clear what every euro means. When you donate ten euros, you actually help a child's KiVa program. So organisations can see very closely what the value of each euro is and are very grateful for it. How to put it more clearly is, of course, something that we must learn as a wider society. A culture of gratitude may really need some development in Estonia. However, I would like to stress here one thing that maybe it is important to point out about the donation. In fact, current studies show that Estonian donors do not really want to talk about the donation themselves. They don't want to talk about being donors, and they don't want to get thanks from the organization either. They're not really looking for that contact. It's maybe an interesting paradox, too. Well, I'm sure it's part of history. But we could come to the point that, in addition to thanking us, we are talking about doing good, and we are talking about it, without waiting for anything in return, any praise or approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U58	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Very honorable waitress, thank you very much for this very pleasant presentation. I just want to bring in a slightly different aspect. Let me give you an example. It's ugly to give your own example, but still. We are going back to 1992 when I was planning to start a bone marrow transplant in Estonia. I didn't get any cents that time, the only option was to bury the plan or do something. Then I was able to collect $100,000 for basic equipment, not with human donations, but by going personally to business companies. It meant explaining every time. The longest explanation was five hours, but that doesn't mean he got the money. But in 1993 I made the first transplant. Perhaps I want to say what I have heard about doubts about donation: people want to know very clearly what [the money is needed]. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I think maybe there's some association here that has a chance of getting more donors.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U60	Thank you. Yeah, we agree on that. This is also demonstrated by the experience of organisations themselves, that the clearer they express, for which the specific donation goes, the better the review, and the greater the trust between the donor, the donor and the organization. I fully agree with that, and this is also one of the practices that we will definitely follow in the donation collectors' network.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U61	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for your excellent presentation. I recognized Mrs. Malles as my grandfather, who is about to be 100 years old, and one copied to one, I should say, although one is a man and the other is a woman. Even it's the same that Grandpa's still asking when the other bus is coming a day. 'Cause I can get out of the house, but I can't get back. Excellent free public transport, but unfortunately it doesn't help. My question comes from this area. Do you not at times feel that there is an inverse relationship between donating, involving society and failing to do so? If we leave the country without doing anything, society will see that it has to be done and that it has to be contributed. I think that if we go out today with a campaign to clear the streets so that we can walk normally and not break bones, a lot of people are willing to donate this five euros to clean the streets. Do you ever sense that there's a very important connection here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U63	I guess in some areas where we can see that civil society actually takes the lead and is starting to take some initiative. Then it will be easy for the country to continue to rely on civil society. We also see that in some areas where civil society no longer provides services, there is a hole and that the country needs to find solutions quickly again. But in general I'd love to see us ever live in a country where we're willing to contribute a little more than just our tax revenues and think more about how we're all doing here. So nobody's far away, some unknown country, but the country is that we're doing everything together here and we're wondering how. Who does this from his own time, by going to save himself, or by going in somehow to participate in some kind of environmental struggle, and by donating. Each one of us will do exactly what we can and what we are pleased with. We actually see that this voluntary contribution and donation is very potential in Estonia, and we see that there are many people in Estonia who want to contribute to our common country and to its success. We could just think a little bit about how to make it easier for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U64	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, good waitress, for a really good and emotional presentation! I might ask you a little less emotionally about numbers. You came up with 10%, and that is a really ambitious proposal. Now, if we go a step further, have you thought about where this ceiling would be specifically on a less emotional document such as the income tax return? Here too, when we calculate quickly, if we base the average wage, we will receive EUR 1800 to 2000 per year. Would that be the ceiling we could have in our income tax return, free of income tax on donations?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U66	So this ceiling is an individual. With the average wage, this ceiling stays there at 1800. But if your salary is 6,000 euros a month, you could actually bet more. Then your willingness to channel your personal resources to the benefit of the country is greater. And the fact that the state is giving back a little bit of it itself through income tax should in fact not be a big problem in the long run, because the benefits are simply much greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U67	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U68	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! You have an interesting term here, which is most important in the case of free will, i.e. "donate time." That's why I'm asking this area. Because these hours of work, I believe, are not exactly collapsed, but they do exist. If the annual fee for the Defence League is 12 euros, then one exercise of the Defence League has usually been two days, 50 hours gone, it is not worth recalculating it into money. But that's how you say crypto money, volunteer crypto money they move. This is our time off. I've been in the Defence League since 1991, and I've used a lot of crypto money, and I'm happy to do it. Maybe when tens of thousands do these weekends, that volume is powerful. Have you tried more to carry out audits according to this, all over Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U69	About donation and volunteering, both of them, Estonia is subject to quite regular monitoring. For voluntary work, we do a rather thorough survey every five years and, in fact, for this too, let's say that the summary is something that we can be very proud of. In fact, as a volunteer in Estonia, about 50% of the population, or half of them, contribute to their time at the expense of family, work, areas of interest or something else. It contributes to helping your home country in any way or to promoting an organisation and initiative. Some give their professional expertise free of charge, offer pro bono any services that actually go into time donation. There is a lot of this contribution to volunteering in Estonia, and this is something that really deserves to be proud and grateful about. The contribution of the Defence League is, of course, very important here, and it is a long tradition. But there are organisations where you can volunteer in Estonia and there are others. Including the same ones who collect donations, all help hands are often accepted. A food bank, for example, [used by volunteers] for the delivery of any food aid. If you do not have money to donate, for example, but you have a few hours to help them pack food, they will be happy to receive this help.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U70	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Really, I really liked that report too. It was emotional and touched, I believe, everyone. I have such a request for you. Probably the possibility of donating without taxes isn't the only thing you can do to get people to donate more. Maybe you can open it. There's some other way. Are there any other options that can be resolved in any way through the legislative process?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U72	Estonia has been talking about donations of many kinds and the possibilities of bringing private money into the third sector. In fact, it all recedes, as we talked briefly here, to the donation culture, to the fact that we talk a little bit more about donation, and to the fact that we talk a little bit more about charity overall. The same technical solution for returning income tax to organisations when submitting the same tax return was made a few years ago. All these are such simple little things that the state can actually do to simplify the way donation is done. It is important that donation is as convenient as possible, as transparent as possible and as simple as possible for people. In this sense, it is worth looking at the whole picture. There are many things you can do. About four years ago, we also presented one memo to the government with ten proposals that the government could do. Three of them were accepted. This donation of the amount returned with the tax return was one of them. Social Impact Bond is a solution that has been tested in Estonia, but it has not been possible to introduce it, because in fact the risks to entrepreneurs and legal obstacles are too high. So there are things where the legal space can actually be analysed, reviewed and changed to encourage donations, yes and still. But let us be honest that, at the most, the amount of the money to be refunded is 1,200 euros. Raising it would be a good place to start, so we can analyse and take further steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U73	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U74	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Really an emotional subject and controversial in this sense, of course, that really many do not want to make donations publicly. But what I want to talk about is that, in the sense of "thinking out of the box," that when we talk about donations, we think about financial donations in particular, they can be more easily motivated through state taxes. But you can really donate, as colleagues have pointed out here, for example, time. It is the contribution of volunteers, as well as in many other areas, that is very important in sport. Do you have any such ideas or ideas as to how voluntary activities or contributions to time can be motivated in a way that can always be motivated by financial contributions through taxes or tax incentives?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U75	Thank you. The way the employer looks at it certainly plays a major role in volunteering. If we start with public authorities, state companies, ministries and agencies themselves contributing their time within working hours, this would certainly be an important example. Today we are here because of the Ministry of the Interior and with the Minister of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior, for example, is one of those who, each year, directs their employees to volunteer in a field that is acceptable. In fact, this is an initiative that every ministry could do, every state agency, every state company. And you here can direct it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U76	Dear Kai Klandorf, although the members of the Riigikogu still have questions, our agreed time frame was unfortunately over. So I hope that if anyone else has any questions, you can have a conversation and a discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U77	Then we can ask Martin.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U78	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U79	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U80	Now we're moving on to Martin Villig's report. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is my pleasure and honour here to try a little bit to open up the view of charity from an entrepreneur's point of view. As a technology entrepreneur myself, I will probably try to talk more about our sector's perspective, but I hope that many thoughts can be extended to all economic enterprises and other business sectors as well. I myself have been an entrepreneur for 20 years and in the meantime worked at the Tallinn Stock Exchange, Skype and some other companies, but then I returned to entrepreneurship and started businesses myself. The last project I have done more is the establishment and expansion of Bolt in Estonia and internationally since 2013. If I look back at what I'm doing, all the time in this career, I've made a social contribution in some form. In previous years, I was a member of the Youth Chamber of Commerce, for example, and this House organized all kinds of charity campaigns and events. Later on, I have tried to do so when I have seen that help is needed in some area or that something can be repaired. For example, the start-up community in Estonia was at a pretty early stage in 2010, then with a couple of other founders, we launched a founder's association and, after that, the Garage48 foundation, both of which have tried primarily to spread the micro-business of technology in society and, on the other hand, also cooperated with the government. We have looked at what are the concerns and what has hindered the development of this sector. We have had regular roundtables with the Prime Minister, where these issues have been resolved. I think that one of the reasons for the success of the Estonian environment, why our start-up sector is so well developed, is that it has been constantly developed in cooperation with the government and other politicians. Thank you so much for that! In the meantime, for five years, between 2013 and 2018, I focused mainly on the development of the company. When the company came back to a phase where we had a strong enough business model, strong enough management, I felt that it was time to contribute more widely. David, the founder of TransferWise, and I have set up the [Heateo] Educational Foundation, which we have now been doing for three years, and we are about to begin the next three-year period that we are announcing. Now a year ago, Jõhvi's [technology] school was also established. In fact, it is a great pleasure for both initiatives to see that technology companies have contributed very widely. In the first phase of the Education Fund, 35 entrepreneurs had to support this initiative and Jõhvi School has already supported some 50 companies and institutions. The Jõhvi School has also been contributed by the state, this is a very good example of cooperation between the state and the private sector, but it also involves 50 entrepreneurs and businesses. In this sense, wherever we see that we can contribute in some form and that it also coincides with my personal interests, or where I see that there are concerns in society, we try to help. How can you think more about how entrepreneurs can even think about charity? The first [the principle] is certainly that we are building companies with great ambition. Let's just say that most of the entrepreneurs in our sector are very large Estonian patriots. That is why we want the company's head office to be located in Estonia, but companies are being built globally. This means that the Estonian market is relatively small and not a very large company can be built here, but if we create knowledge-intensive jobs and build products that are used around the world, then all export turnover and all taxes will return to Estonia for quite a large part. So this is part one. The second part I would like to talk about is that by building companies globally, we are actually thinking about charity globally. Certainly we are betting in Estonia, but this is not the only place, in fact we are also communicating internationally. I would like to tell you a little bit that there is an organization in the world such as Founders Pledge, which means a founder's agreement for charity. And today there are 1,700 members all over the world. They are all entrepreneurs, and they all think about how to give back to society. What is the point of this organization? The fact that, at an early stage, if companies are not yet very large, the company will promise that if they ever do well in the future, this company will grow up, it will make an agreement with this organisation and allow some percentage of its assets to be donated to charity. The average percentage is about 13%, but there are also a number of people who have promised to donate 30%, 50%, or 70% of their future fortunes to charity. So I see it's a growing trend. It is currently quite common in the technology sector, but I hope that such an example could actually be learned and inspired by other business sectors and other entrepreneurs. In addition, the reason why this organization was created in the first place was because its founder sold his business and thought he'd be willing to contribute money to charity. He discovered that it was actually very, very difficult to do this in an influential or effective way. Very many of our organisations in a good field of activity are telling stories, but if you start asking them what your real impact will be if I give you, for example, EUR 1 or EUR 1 000 or EUR 10,000, what will change, and what is this real social impact? However, unfortunately, very many organisations are not yet able to answer that question. It's the same trend that I see that needs to be developed. Companies or organisations should think more seriously, just as we think about investing in everyone you want to invest, either ask the fund manager or look at the perspective of the company and try to think about what is the most effective place to invest and where the best way to come from. But in a good field of activity, we still see little of this kind of thinking. I very much hope that this way of thinking will spread more in the future. So this is what Founders Pledge does. In addition, they create knowledge, or analyse the world's most important problems, be they health, poverty, climate and other things, even at risk of nuclear wars. They involve the world's best experts in different fields, analyse the relevant field and write a report. Their website founderspledge.com has all these reports available free of charge, and they have also made recommendations on each report, which are the most effective charities globally and who could be donated to if they wanted to contribute to a certain area. There are mostly attempts to calculate the exact same effect that by donating to them some amount that could be compared to other donation alternatives. So this is also part of how we look at this charity. We're trying to rely on the data. The last part of how we think is to contribute to Estonia's development. Our community, as I mentioned, has already grown out of [Heateo] Educational Foundation and Jõhvi School of Technology. In the last three years, the founders have donated between four and five million euros. And I see that this is just the beginning, these are the first things we've started. As the previous rapporteur mentioned, working hours and sharing of experience are actually very important. The Foundation also coordinates the Education Fund. With them, the volunteer community has grown more and more, and we have a database of people, be they financial analysts, personnel specialists, lawyers or anyone who can be involved. If any initiative requires help, we can bring these people together. So this is actually important in both ways: donate both financially and think along by introducing an entrepreneurial mindset into the charity sector. So these are the directions we're working on, and we're planning to move them forward more and more. Maybe a few more principles. One of the things we think is transparency. If we do something, it should be seen more widely. We are clearly communicating the objectives [and the reasons] why we are doing something. In the field of education, we see that the better people come and the more people with better values and fundamentals grow, the less the country has problems with them, the less crime, people know what a healthy diet is, what a movement is and all that. This will significantly reduce our social costs in the future. So that is one of the principles why, for example, we would like to contribute to education. Another thing is cooperation with the country. It works on several levels. On the one hand, we are trying to understand from the country, in cooperation with the country, what the country's priorities are, for example, in education or in other areas, whether it is school management or teacher follow-up. These are all the things that have probably been said many times in this room. From there we will get guidelines by which we will understand that this is an important issue for the country. The private sector could help by testing some ideas with smaller, faster pilot projects, because the state may not be able to do so so quickly, the state has public procurement issues or other obstacles. We can test some fresh ideas with private money. If there is a positive impact and it coincides with national priorities, then in fact, the country could come to support these initiatives in part. That is the model, and in it we see our own added value. For example, the first volume of the Education Fund was one million, which is a large number in the charity sector, but compared to the fact that the state contributes 1.3 billion a year to education, it is, of course, a drop in the sea. We cannot raise teachers' salaries with our own fund, for example, although, of course, we pay very much taxes, our sector is paying taxes in the order of 500 million a year, but we can see that we can be faster inventors of change and new thinking. One lesson in this respect is that perhaps the model of cooperation with the country is not yet very clear. If some pilot projects have been successful and match national priorities, a decision must be made on the model of cooperation. The state should actually decide that okay, it seems really a sensible initiative, it is important in the context of the country, and then you have to think about how the financing model works. We can see that this is a bottleneck. A little bit of potential, too. Where are we now, and where can we be in ten years' time? The technology sector has grown by 25% a year for the last five to six years. We have reached 8 000 jobs today, about two billion turnovers, a very large part of this export, and about a billion more foreign investments have been involved last year. Let us now try to calculate what the total value of these Estonian technology companies is and what the value of the founders, which is the added value of the Estonian people in particular, is from there and where this potential for donating could arise. The Estonian state budget was about 13 billion last year, as far as I know, and the value of Estonian technology companies and their founders is six billion. This means that it is now about half the size of the state budget. Let's look at the growth perspective. In my opinion, in ten years' time, the state budget could be in the order of 30 billion. Looking at the growth potential, we can see that the value or value of the assets of the founders of Estonian technology companies could be in the order of 40 billion. If I have spoken to the founders, also in the context of Founders Pledge, then people have said that 1% of their assets per year to invest in charity could be a perfectly reasonable order of magnitude. If we start reducing it from these sizes, the potential of ten years could be in the order of hundreds of millions, 300 million or 400 million. So in this sense, a perfectly significant order of magnitude. This could quite significantly solve societal burning problems both in Estonia and in the context of the world. Okay. If we go to more specific proposals, which could be discussed here too, the company will now be able to donate 10% of the profit of the previous year or 3% of the salary fund of this year, exempt from tax. In fact, this money often comes with a one-off event, for example, in autumn 2020 Pipedrive was sold with a billion and a half. Quite a big event in the Estonian context. In my opinion, 400 million or 500 million money was made available to the founders of Estonia, as well as to employees. Now the question is that it is not really real to make all the donations within one year of the amount that was actually profit. On this basis, the proposal that this 10% might remain could perhaps also be considered as raising it, with 10 to 15% of the total undistributed profits being, for example, the amount that companies could contribute to charity. As was said here before, there are 2500 companies or organisations on the list of income tax exemptions. This means that donations should not be made to random companies, but to those that have been controlled by the tax authorities and who are reliable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U82	Mr. Villig, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U83	I'd like, yes, two or three sentences. One more issue that could be considered or discussed socially is that, for example, political party donations are currently public. Could these major donations actually be made public in Estonia or even in Estonia? What would be the effect? I know that some entrepreneurs may not want publicity, they fear that if they donate more money to someone, there will be a lot of other people who ask for money, but, again, in terms of example, it would be good to invite other entrepreneurs and people to donate more. So that's one thing we could debate. In summary, I would like to say that at least companies in the technology sector are all Estonian patriots. We really want Estonia to do well. I call on all entrepreneurs to think more about donating. As has been said here, people's donations are actually growing faster than corporate donations. What can we do here? And actually, you should also think about the impact of giving, try to think and ask these organisations and maybe help them to better understand and implement this effect. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U84	And we can continue this debate in the form of questions and answers. Peter Ernits is starting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U85	Good manager! Dear waitress, thank you for an interesting presentation. You're a good man, but look, the nuances are in the details. Your sister came here in front of our government's Stenbock house with a poster for the Nazis, that's who she is. And you, too, have shown your clear mind. But the next Prime Minister, no doubt, comes from this party you call the Nazis. But that's my question now. There's a lot of good people in your company who have different skin colors. How do you view the Preamble of the Estonian Constitution, which talks about the preservation of Estonian language and nationality throughout the ages? I understand that speaking Estonian is forbidden in many places in your company. Should Estonian be taken out so that the new normality and neonormal Estonia can work properly? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U86	Thank you for your question. I would very much like to know the source where you found the information that speaking Estonian is forbidden. Maybe then I'll explain the context a little bit. I don't know, it doesn't go with too much charity, but if you ask me that, I'll try to explain. In Estonia, Bolt employs 1000 people in size classes, and indeed a certain number of them are foreigners. To all these people, we actually recommend [learning Estonian], and we also see that they have a pretty high interest in language learning. What are the concerns? For example, there are relatively few places for studying Estonian on the basis of English that the country offers. These groups are often [fast] filled. Or, for example, Russian-based learning has a serious problem, as we say, those people who are involved in moving and supporting foreigners to Estonia. So if you can help with this from the side of the Riigikogu in order for foreigners to learn our language more, I think it is very welcome. I would recommend that we address this issue. Secondly, we also have platform users, to whom you may refer more, people of different skin colors. These are the people that Bolt does not bring any to Estonia. These are people who have come here with other regulations, they have come here either to learn or to work or with some other issue. No courier or driver will be brought to Estonia as our company. We only bring in specialists involved in software development and the construction of our technology business.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U87	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U88	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, We are probably all pleased with the development of technology here. But you just expressed quite egoistically, when Peeter Ernits pointed out that your aggressive demand for foreign workers and being a flagship would create a language problem, people should be taught, then you said immediately that the Riigikogu could deal with this problem. You are creating foreign labour problems yourself, so even small children, like my child, need to start teaching Estonian from scratch to completely approximating classmates, right? You are pushing this burden on children and society as a whole. Look, if you know you're the author of the problem, you could bet on it yourself. Think about it. Do you have the willingness to donate and contribute to language learning, for example, so that this problem of English and Russian can be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U89	Thank you. Yes, we also have language learning groups within the company. I don't know exactly how to put it in numbers. But they happen every week. We see for ourselves what I said that there are no places for national language teaching places. We certainly don't rely on the state alone, but I just brought it up in context. I don't know exactly how you're familiar with it, but it's a problem, and there could be a lot more of these places. Question two. Is bringing top specialists from abroad to Estonia a problem, or is it beneficial for the state? Well, I guess that's the point of debate. If they get multiple average wages in Estonia, the added value they bring to our country should be quite decent. I think that against this tax revenue the state could actually offer certain services, and one of them could also be the same language training or school and kindergarten place. Of course, I am not saying that it is only the task of the state, we are contributing here ourselves, but it still needs to be seen in context and in balance. That could be my answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U90	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U91	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Well, of course, it is interesting to see this: not only should people fit into family life like a certain form of family life, it seems that entrepreneurs should also fit into a certain form for this hall. But I'm trying to fit two questions. First of all, given how much you have contributed to education, for example, do you see that there is some kind of boundary, there are some functions that must necessarily be performed by the state and places where a partnership can be established with a representative of civil society or an entrepreneur? It really is testing new initiatives, but is there anything else? And the second question. If we look now, I don't know, 10 or 20 years in advance, could it happen that there is not one company in Estonia that aims only at maximising profits, but everyone has a social role? [For example] either you significantly reduce the ecological footprint or support some vocational training at a local school or create a better infrastructure for the community. Do you see that it is possible to achieve a situation in Estonia where all companies have a social role?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U92	Thank you. I will try to answer these questions. What applies to all businesses, of course, is not the point of social development and perhaps of returning to society. I think it would be very nice to have all the entrepreneurs think about it, but it's probably gonna take some time to get there. In general, the trend is that if companies grow a little bigger and management has time to think about more [or other than survival], they may have overcome their real daily concerns about whether the company will survive in the first place, then there is probably more time to think about giving back to society. Of course, some smaller companies can do this. They're in their community, they see these problems and they do it now. But I very much hope that the general awareness of contributing to society will increase. The other half was part of education. I can see that there are certainly areas where cooperation between the public and private sectors remains. I believe that Jõhvi School of Technology, for example, is one where entrepreneurs themselves feel that this problem also affects their needs more directly and they come to the aid of the state here. I believe that these cooperation models are precisely the ones where really cooperation between the two can do better. But if we also look at the initiatives of those who have taken longer, such as the Youth School, then, as far as I know, the public funding there has been around 30 to 40% and the majority has been coming from the private sector for 15 years. This is, in fact, the problem of teachers' secondary growth, which is now one of the most general priorities in our country, but it has actually been the private sector's contribution every year for years and decades. So I can see that there are different examples. I think that the more this issue is being spoken about, the more really more businesses and people in every form, whether financially or with their contributions, and all the more can contribute. Yes, I believe that Estonia, that is us. We can't just rely here on wise decisions being made here on Toompea. In fact, every person should think every day that if he sees a problem somewhere, there are any ways he can help himself. Because our country is small and we have to think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U93	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U94	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, Thank you very much for this inspiring presentation and for all the action you have taken to support charitable initiatives, especially educational initiatives. I think it is very important to promote corporate donations. My own experience also: 20 years ago, when we created an ethics centre at the University of Tartu, our activities were first supported by the Volkswagenstiftung in Germany, which actually receives tax exemptions and thanks to this was ready to be shouldered by a programme such as the common road to Europe. I'd like to take two thoughts from you. How to make entrepreneurs think more about the impact of their donation activities and maybe also be partners to think about what kind of Estonia or what kind of world do we want? And the second point certainly with the partnership country is how the country will take over these initiatives, which have been piloted, which have justified itself well in civil society, because it is the biggest problem that we have everything project-based, you can apply for new projects, but nothing goes on a permanent basis. My question now is this: do you see any possibility where, in fact, the public sector, the citizens' initiative, this is the third sector, and the private sector could create a so-called three-chamber council to discuss some of these major issues, how could the state, for example, work better or what kind of Estonia would we like? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U95	Thank you. I think it's a worth considering idea. Certainly, if, for example, the ministries in their area see that they need help in how such, say, strategic partners or initiatives contributing in important areas could work with the country, then I think the country itself has this knowledge. But if it may seem that it is missing, I believe that the people of non-governmental organisations are ready to think about what principles would be practical, feasible, etc. Invite your field contributors to the table and discuss how to do it together. I think there are nuances in every area. I have also seen a number of situations where many of the policies that the state has financed are no longer so effective. There are some NGOs that offer a similar service much more effectively, but the state says that it is very difficult for me to switch. In this sense, it is also one of the issues on which to pay attention and think about how the added value that the state offers to a group of citizens would also be as cost effective as possible in budgetary terms. A more innovative and effective model can often come from a private initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U96	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for this really interesting presentation! There was a strong entrepreneurial approach and it was really very positive, which was highlighted here. I think we deserve to think about how our donations would be used effectively. Really, that's probably what we're dealing with too little right now. This is where I wanted to ask you about these reports. Who could be the institution in Estonia that would deal with reports that would provide an overview and recommendations on donations, where would it be worth pointing out that every euro that has been put, figuratively speaking, would still be returned to the company? How do we solve this? Perhaps you could open this issue a little bit in the context of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U98	Thank you for your question. I know that the Goodwill Foundation has been thinking about this subject, although it is not in the context of all-Estonian reports at the moment, but precisely in terms of how to advise initiatives to better understand their actions. Then initiatives could either be better quantified in their annual report or in some other way, or with data. Our own example is that now that the Education Fund has been working for three years, our three-year activity report is immediately available on the website of the Goode Foundation, which contains all the details. We tried to assess the impact of each initiative in order to see how much money has been channelled into it, how many students have had that impact and all that. So we are trying to set an example ourselves and, in fact, to spread this knowledge more widely where possible. Who could possibly do such a broader analysis? Well, that's a good question. I think we should think about it. There are such research companies in Estonia, be it Praxis or many others. Why not? We can discuss whether, for example, the Ministry feels that it could expand the donation environment more generally and make it more meaningful, or whether we should also co-finance the private sector or try to transport it again with some pilots. We need to see what the results will be. But one idea is that, for example, professional associations or any area we have, industrial companies, forest enterprises, etc., could look at what is happening in their sector in civil society and try to analyse this sector. Then people can choose. Perhaps you should also try to assemble them in one place, so that information can be found, because there is a great deal of information on the Internet, not everything may be found. If this information were to be collected more centrally, maybe we could take the first few years to see how it goes, and then we can think and draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U99	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I say to you this way, the hat is off to your entrepreneurial mind, because every man can't do it. Honestly, it's none of my business to peek into your wallet, but since you're here today, I'm gonna have to ask my questions. And why you are here today is understandable, because my good colleague Toomas Kivimägi suggested that you be invited here because you have donated money to the Reform Party. But I'd like to ask you this. With the two-billion-dollar turnover you mentioned, I'd be interested in the part of your benefits. Please do not say that you have supported the victims of the Chinese earthquake, etc. In what amount have you made donations to Estonian companies, in addition to the fact that you have supported medical staff with wheels. Please mention these companies and the amounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U101	Did I get it right that the question was, with what amounts have I supported charity in Estonia myself? Okay. Good question. I have to start remembering. So many initiatives have been supported in the past year. I think one of the biggest sums of money has gone to the development of Jõhvi School of Technology. I don't know if I remember this amount by heart, but I think the magnitude could have been twenty thousand euros. I also support the Goodwill Education Fund every year with a few tens of thousands. What else? I have supported the young people in the school, who are involved in the teacher's upbringing. Invisible Animals that work to improve the well-being of farm animals, that's where I'm a permanent donor. And in an international context, I have also supported. Okay, you didn't care that much about the international subject. I think that these are key in Estonia's context, in terms of charity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U102	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U103	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you for this exciting presentation, for broadening their minds and their space for thought. I'd ask you this way. We often have a problem with not getting enough on with our R &amp; D. One part is the state contribution, the other part is the private contribution. Within this project or theme, can we take a greater step forward in order for our research and development to grow and for the private sector to contribute more? We try to talk about all things at once. We understand that the vertices really do. And in order for the vertices to make a mistake, you probably need to invest more. Once again, I am in no way taking down the bottom initiatives, because society is a whole. But that's a big problem that hasn't been overcome. Pending round tables, agreements are discussed and concluded. Do you see that this initiative could have a significant impact on this R &amp; D contribution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U104	Thank you. I'm sure that's a good question. I see that companies are trying more to work with universities on this. Our own company, for example, has been cooperating with the University of Tartu for several years now in the field of the development of self-driving cars. It is an interesting project that is of interest to both students and lecturers there, because there is modern technology. I'm sure he'll find those angles. How do you put it into a charity context? It seems to me that there have really been fewer ideas in Estonia than in the analogue countries that have actually come from university research topics and entered entrepreneurship, and this value has reached quite consumers. I think Estonia certainly has room for growth here. I know there are some very cool things being done in the field of investigation, but somehow it seems like a limp that it doesn't actually make it to the market. If he did, I think it would inspire more of the following similar projects, and maybe scientists would learn how to do it better by working together. Yes, I see that this is a topic that could certainly be developed further in the Estonian context, because we are a little behind compared to the comparison countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U105	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Martin Villig! There are 20 seconds left, and Thomas is a quick questioner, but I believe Thomas will come and ask the point of his question right here on the remote with his report. Unfortunately, the appointment ran out. Thank you very much for this presentation. The members of the Riigikogu will certainly have the opportunity to speak with you later. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U107	And now the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Toomas Kivimägi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U108	Mr President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Very respectable waitresses! I actually wanted to agree as rarely as it happens with Mr Kalle Grünthal and actually thank Martin Villigu for the contribution he has made in terms of work, services and tax revenue. So that was the first part of my question that I couldn't ask. But the second was indeed a specific question about Founders Pledge. Ladies and gentlemen, I maybe so much, in addition to what the Minister said at the beginning, where is the basis for why we are discussing this issue today as a crucial national issue? Indeed, this same hall has adopted a decision in 2002 entitled 'Accepting the development concept of Estonian civil society', and this concept provides for OTRK to be made on this issue every second year. I must admit that in the Commission, when we discussed this issue, it was also a question of whether it was such an effective and rational method. I say today, now and now at the beginning, after hearing three presentations, that I find it very right and justified. For me these doubts are all behind us, now that I have listened to the presentations and also those members of the Riigikogu, colleagues who have contributed with their questions and opinions. So it's justified itself anyway. And there will certainly not be a debate on this issue. One of the reasons why this issue arose in this way was certainly that, for the last time, we had such a debate in the OTRK form four and a half years ago. As I said above, this should happen every second year, but the last one was four and a half years ago. So I or my successor will certainly [do it again], I believe that in two years' time we will be on the same subject right here in this Chamber. Now the second, this debate here, the OTRK, was preceded, as the Minister once referred to, by the joint sitting of the three committees. I also want to congratulate these committees, both the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Culture, with whom we held three joint meetings of the Commission on 28 September 2021. In response to the question raised by one of my fellow Members here in the meantime, I say that indeed we are talking here today mostly and mainly about donations. It was, in fact, one of my wishes and desires that we be more specific and pay more attention to it. Indeed, I honestly say that I did not follow this OTRK title very closely, and I admit that this title, which has been disbanded, does not give that degree of specificity. But I repeat: both my speech and the prayer to most performers were precisely how to encourage more donations. The Minister also summarised this issue more broadly. Going to the content now, I want to start by thanking all the NGOs. Kai Klandorf made an excellent presentation. But there's one thing I don't agree with. And that's one thing you have to disagree with, otherwise that praise might not be credible. I don't agree that those people who donate don't appreciate the thanks. You mentioned they wouldn't expect any thanks. In fact, I've never met a person who doesn't give a shit about it. We're very shy, so am I. If somebody thanks for that doesn't happen very often, let's just say not to get very selfish, then we're about to say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. " I'm not even gonna let another stop thinking about what he wants to say to me. We have this kind of false shame when someone else thanks us. But in any case, I think gratitude is a very important argument, and that is why I thank all the NGOs for all the contributions they have made. Indeed, this is a very large part of what they do, albeit partly voluntarily, but they still cover the state's tasks to a considerable extent. The one and only place where I also disagree a little bit with the Minister is when it comes to helping police officers. Indeed, this principle is voluntary, no one is forcing and no one can give them anything, but they de facto cover some part of the police's duties that police officers, 100% of the country's wages, would otherwise have to do. So in this sense, I think there is really reason to be grateful to all those who have contributed. Now, to be even more specific, my first postulate is this: I say that those people who are capable and willing to donate even more are two or three times more than those who actually do. Several polls have shown this. Let's look at these numbers, some of which have already been said here. For example, the percentage of permanent donors in Estonia is 12%. They're permanent donors. Those who make one - time contributions are almost every other. But let's take a little more concrete example and compare ourselves with others. 27% of people make donations in Estonia in one month, while 39% in Finland and 57% in Sweden. That's one sign of it, it shows we still have a long way to go. But, of course, we are not as rich as the countries with which we compare ourselves. It is important to say that this data for Estonia dates back to 2016, quite a long time ago, and for foreign countries from 2018, quite a long time ago. So there's definitely been some change. But I think these proportions are roughly the same, which is why one focus and my desire to find the reasons why people still donate so little, while there is willingness and even will. The first thing we talked about here is the same tax issue. As a representative of such a liberal party, I think it would be very populist to say that we will double this number, instead of 1200, we will do 2400. But these things aren't that simple. There's still some kind of tax gap next to it. And I don't think that's the way to deal with it. I am of the opinion that we should probably allocate a little more to the person's own tax exemption from the EUR 1200, which is a general tax exemption. When we talk about borrowing rates or training costs, they are still directed at the person himself. I think it makes sense to set a specific limit here in any case. The country will find the right balance. It would also be too easy to say that we are reducing the number that goes to rent or training costs. That would be a little complicated, too. However, I did have the idea in this very hall that more could be added to this same ceiling, I do not know that I am so specific that I am EUR 500 or EUR 600, which will be deducted if they are donations. You see, the part that goes beyond that. If we go from there to split it 1,200 in half or whatever, then we're going to have a pretty sharp opposition to it, because still à la, who's taken the mortgage, he's taken that into account. Although these amounts are not actually too large, a maximum of 240 euros a year, but still, the subject can be raised from this. So that's not the solution either. In short, I would like to reiterate the idea that the 1200 could be left in place, and that would be the ceiling if we were talking about interest or training costs for housing loans, but there may be more than 500 or 600 euros of extra donations from this ceiling. They may, of course, also be inside if there are no other deductions. But let's say that the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the But once again, that goes over 1200, that would only and only be donations. The second subject, which has not been discussed very much here today, but which, personally, matters quite a bit to me. I'll be honest with you, I'm not exactly the type of donor who goes shopping and puts money in those boxes. I am very grateful to the companies that have put these [collection boxes] there, but I am frankly saying that I am not being spoken to. A lot of people seem to be talking, because there's still considerable donations. But for me, the keyword is that I want to donate specifically to a specific person when he has a problem or a need. I'd do it better than I would if I made some kind of abstract donation. The other side is a personal approach. I don't know if it's quite right, I don't want to promote too much, and the sums I donated were very small, once again, so that there would be no misconception. But I had [ opportunity to donate] the University of Tartu Hospital to the Children's Foundation. A girl came to my house at the door. I don't know what principle or on what basis they went on. I'm saying this because, although you can't really promote it, that all organisations go home, and that's not the right approach either, but as a principle, since he came, I couldn't say no to him. It's because of the 10 euros. Okay, I made a permanent donation. I'm gonna say this sum, it's so small, it's not gonna get the wrong idea that I've made some kind of huge donation. But if you make a permanent donation, it's gonna work for a long time, and eventually something's gonna tick. It was a personal approach. I definitely wouldn't have found that clinic website myself. I got home, it was a personal approach, and I was open to it. That's one side. But then again, there's still a pretty considerable amount of donations, but the lion's share of them is 10%. That's also a problem. [You have to think about] how to get to a lower level, where the needs are actually more primary, but perhaps the joy is even greater. So that's one point: how do you personify it so it's more specific? The third thing I just wanted to mention. I'm sorry, you might not like this very much. But one of my experiences [is] from Norway. Sometimes we have the wrong idea that the state should always open its wallet to non-governmental organisations. I will give an example of Norway, where I have contact with a number of similar connections. There, I think, is a lion's share of the revenue, even though we may have so-called non-governmental organisations themselves collected. They'll cook cakes and sell them and they'll be all over the place. That, too, is actually a keyword that we must not ignore. At this point I mean that it is one thing, of course, to bet time, but another thing is to be really out and to be visible and thus earn additional revenue. Not just by sitting in your office somewhere. So earning self-income is not to be underestimated, be it fairs or exhibitions. Some organizations are out there, the à la cancer fund, isn't it? Sometimes it even seems a little too intense. I'm saying there are people who mean that. So here too, seeking balance is very important. There is certainly [one more thing] that should also be appreciated in money. It is difficult to do this, but the same donated time that the previous speakers Martin Villig and Kai Klandorf spoke about. Even if I'm betting on my job or my activities, it's basically worth the money. Andres Metsoja sits a little behind, we have a big debate in Pärnu about whether the city should clean up some of the sidewalks that border private homes, or whether citizens could do so too. I say this is a very nice form of citizens' initiative, where citizens contribute by cleaning it [the street] themselves and by doing so it will be a little easier for the city to carry the burden. It's a citizens' initiative, it's done together, okay? So the time [spent] must be assessed in exactly the same way. Maybe one of the last keywords for me. I thought I had made it up with my own smart mind, but Aadu Black ruined everything after the three joint meetings of the Commission and said that such a principle had already been introduced somewhere since then. My argument is that a chance to help others is a privilege. A chance to help others is a privilege. That's the point for me. I just checked that there are about eight billion people on earth. I would argue that there are no two people with the same abilities among this eight billion. Of course, everyone's own personal contribution is also what it has reached today. But we can't underestimate that nature has still given someone a little more and someone less. We have no reason to be mad at anyone, but it is de facto. Perhaps among its eight billion people, there are no two people with the same natural abilities or assumptions. In this sense, those who are more successful, they have gained more from nature and have been privileged in that sense. Therefore, donating is actually a privilege. Let's say, referring to Martin Villaigu, it's still an incredible perspective, in a positive way, which is upstairs. If today the tax revenue from IT companies is 500 million, then if the value of their assets reaches 30 billion, as Mr Villig mentioned, then 1% of this is still going to be a higher amount from this sector alone. And it could go to charity. So this is definitely a forum for discussion. On the business side, you could also think about how to keep these doors open and make sure that the money reaches where it is needed. Because the whole world is looking and waiting for such help. We don't have to be blue eyes [or think] that we're the only ones with problems. There are other problems. Finally, one of the calls by which I will conclude my speech: men, it is time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U109	We can go to the questions. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Good Thomas as a waitress! I'll start like you do. Indeed, there are many things that can be accepted, both in encouraging men and in that we are truly privileged. But I wanted to argue about gratitude. Yes, gratitude is important. No doubt there are children who want to thank for the Christmas gift they received as a donation, or some people want to express their gratitude for the surprising kindness. I have made criticism of what activities to give to civil society and what to fund from donations. Because I feel that very often people have been pressured to come out with their face and name, to share their lives, their worries, their choices, even their diagnosis. But I'm not sure it's a [always] pretty voluntary step. So no doubt gratitude can be encouraged, but no matter what help a person gets through donors, I don't want anyone to feel the pressure...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U111	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U112	...that because of that, he has to reveal it in public with his name and face.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U113	Thank you, Riina! A very meaningful and exciting question. I think we should start by saying that men and women are different here, too. Men are probably even a little more vain than women, so they expect more thanks. The second thing I'm going to say is that I agree with you a hundred percent that it would certainly be wrong to bind the recipient of the donation to gratitude so that he has to publish it. Then this donation would be a very bad donation, in the first place. So I certainly don't think it's right that he's going to have an obligation to thank now. Thirdly, I also agree that it is certainly not necessary for everyone to be public. Often neither the donor nor the recipient of the donation really wants to see their name anywhere. Rather, by gratitude, I mean a personal and individual approach. In that case, however, commendation also motivates us. Sometimes the whip helps, but sometimes the cookie helps. I believe in the power of praise even more. When you get praised, you get like wings and then you get more energy and you want to do more. Totally agree that it must be individual, and one hundred percent agree with you that it must not become an obligation for the recipient of the donation; it certainly does not have to be added to it. Just like I didn't say what I didn't agree with Kalle Grünthal. The fact that Martin Villig was performing here today is something for the first time. It is not the case that he who makes donations must also make a statement. This is something completely new, and I certainly cannot agree that it would rather be an obligation. I am very grateful to Martin for coming here to bring an entrepreneur's view and to unlock the potential that start-ups actually bear in this area and could do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U114	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U115	Thank you. Dear waitress, We are talking about civil society here, and I agree with you that in this case, we should not just talk about donations. However, I will raise another aspect and say that Estonian civil society will definitely become more active when citizens gain more decision-making power. And the highest form of decision-making is a referendum. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, however, there is currently a draft EKRE which gives the opportunity to hold referendums in local governments. As Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, you have frozen this procedure since October. This means that in real life, you do not trust Estonian civil society. My question is this: how do you justify the difference between your words and your actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U116	Thank you. A keen question, as always, and exciting. The first answer to this is actually this: I did not show it in any negative way that it was directed towards charity, but, on the contrary, my request was to channel it into a particular subject so that we could go more deeply. So in that sense, it was my initiative to be more specific. If we take apart the concept of the development of Estonian civil society, there is a list of the points it covers, and one of them is the same subject of donations. So, in this sense, it is also formally consistent. As far as the power of the people is concerned, I think we have all read the Constitution and we know from time to time that the superior power is exercised by the people according to the Constitution in force in Estonia and we also know how the people exercise power, namely, we have Riigikogu elections and referendum. In fact, at the Estonian level, they are entirely there. The reason why they have been so few should be analysed. But to say that the people don't have that chance is certainly not competent. At the same time, I admit and do not tire of repeating that Estonia is still a parliamentary republic. We have made such a choice and, in that sense, that Parliament has a de facto greater perfection of power than reading this particular paragraph is actually a fact, and that is also due to our own constitution. Secondly, as I said at the very beginning, no one here chooses the same Parliament but the same people. So in this sense, we have received this mandate. I think we have the authority to decide. Often we want to restrict ourselves in some way and find that we are not able to make these decisions. But in reality, we have the authority to make these decisions on behalf of the people. Let's say, even at the local government level, this could lead to some kind of imbalance if we were to create a situation in Switzerland that I know you would certainly like to give an example. But we have completely different countries. So there's always the danger of what's going to happen, and that's what you have to think about. Maybe the council's meaning or significance is falling, but that's not what we want, is it? The members of the council have also chosen directly from the people. So in that sense, it's such a place of balance. But no, no one has made a final decision yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U117	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U118	Thank you! Thank you for this debate today. And thank all the waitresses for their thoughts, their contributions! But I would like to come to a very specific question, Thomas. We know we have such a great foundation as cultural capital, a public foundation. And the story of cultural capital has happened that over the years, it has not been possible to break through the Wall of the Ministry of Finance. All donations of the Cultural Endowment are subject to income tax. All those good people who have donated an Open Estonia Book series, without which our bookshelf of philosophical and theoretical works would be very smooth if he had been in Estonia, or to such translation programs as Norsk Pengepung or English Wallet, which have helped translate Estonian authors to the rest of the world and also to translate from other programs. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U119	Time, Indrek!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U120	Does it make sense to you that cultural capital does not have an exemption and that these people are double-taxed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U121	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U122	Or should we do something with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U123	Thank you, Indrek! A very substantive and serious issue. One I didn't say before. I'll be right back to the other side. The question is, in the form of these tax incentives, will I not make this donation if I know I can't get it back to 20%? The maximum amount is, in fact, 240 euros a year when we are talking about a private person. In fact, I think nine out of ten people will not fail to make a donation, even if there were no tax exemption and he did not get back 20% of what he's donating. However, I am not denying this: if I fill out the tax return and see that I will be reimbursed 240 euros, it will be a very large amount. I am, of course, happy to see that. Let's say I don't want to over-mystify that either. But indreku's example of cultural capital. Although Mr Hanno, President of the sitting which preceded Martin, said that we would not take any decision here today, I fully agree and agree with that, I do not want to be populist or say that, yes, we will, but I am absolutely in agreement that we should be able to make such a joint letter together to the Ministry of Finance. I am prepared to join this letter in the sense of proposing to consider it. You may have hinted that this has been done before, but still, I'd like to know these arguments. In fact, the Cultural Endowment has once again made a huge contribution to our culture. It is somewhat surprising to me, but since I have not analysed it, it would be inappropriate for me to take very specific positions here. But the very context of the debate, which is in this Chamber, I think we are actually ready to ask again and ask about it. I am totally willing to do this, and we can do this together, in the sense that this is how we will also show the wider ground. Perhaps in each group someone will find someone who is ready to join this letter, then again there is no Reform Party or anyone else. I agree we're gonna do a letter like this, a little analysis, and we're gonna look into it. Let's make a meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U124	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U125	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, Thomas! Right, the donor has the right to expect thanks and the taxpayer has the right to expect a public good or service. [[Thomas Kivimägi laughs.]] There are always two sides to these coins. In my opinion, this problem in Estonia tends to be, where we at some point blur these borders. We're saying that something is charity, and something for tax money must be someone's thing. Here are some of the same examples. You brought this snow-pushing theme into a public space that is used and should be available to everyone. Or we can bring the same high-speed internet connection to the rural area, which the country says at some point, make your own NGO and make your own network company and provide yourself with a high-speed internet connection. What I want to say is that, in fact, in this debate, obviously we should increasingly prioritise what is being offered for tax money and what is being added to it. There is never a ban on going to the state to help. But the state should not rely on it. Will you share this position with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U126	Thank you, good Andres! We have a lot of common ground, and here, too, I very much agree with that. With just one example like that. Let's say this is a little bit better, but once, when the policemen's salaries were relatively modest and then, at the time, I was the mayor of Pärnu, I was approached [to me] about so that the city could help a little. I'll be honest with you, I didn't think it was right. I didn't think it was right because when someone on the side pays for it, we actually show that there is no problem. These sums, of course, were not large, but it is a matter of principle. I'm willing to do some kind of reception or whatever. But the fact that we're going to pay off this service for the same country with the local government, like it's shittin' water. And the state says there's no problem. So in this sense, the outline of who is doing what and where is doing is very important. This really is very important, because the country should be the last one to go to do its tasks somehow at the expense of others. I certainly don't think that's right. But once again: state, it's not just a state budget. On the other hand, these same civil society organisations, the same example from Norway, in fact, have a very large role to play in the richer countries, and they perform a great deal of public functions. The same Goodhoe Foundation or those schools that are founded in just no it's a superactivity. At the same time, it is often critical of its quality. And maybe it's not always at the level that the state can offer. But the examples in the field of education are the ones that even make the country look forward to. So in this sense, I also do not want to create illusions that we are so rich that civil society should not, as if, contribute anything in return. Once again, in the example of the city of Pärnu, the fact that citizens do something means that they contribute a million euros each year. That's a very considerable amount. And the other side, of course, is what we have already talked about, namely, the city must go to help those who cannot. It's clear as day. If we make this voluntary commitment, but it's still hard for someone to carry it, then the city has to go to the rescue and do it. But looking for a place to balance is always a difficult question. I am now trying to construct whether the share of NGOs in all kinds of services will increase or decrease over time. I would even dare to think that it will grow, despite the fact that I think and believe that the Estonian state will be richer itself. Of course, we might conclude that we can do more on our own, but in fact, wishes and desires are growing together with the growth of our wealth. I am not saying that the state is going to take something away from the NGOs, but rather the other way round. One side is money, but the other is involvement and participation, which is very important. Whether all the residential connections that are here in Tallinn or the settlements that have arisen are also contributing to the development of the entire region, the creation of the whole environment. So, in fact, involving them is another very important keyword for civil society. It's not just money. Therefore, yes, I think this debate is entirely on the right channel. We still have to look for ways to increase their role in time. Not that the state is now necessarily going to push its affairs away from them. However, this does not have to be ruled out either. If the state is giving this money and some kind of non-governmental organisation is doing this better, why not? But the basic principle is that their role in time is growing. We should base our decisions on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U127	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Our good colleague Riina here on her question highlighted the role of entrepreneurs and businesses and stressed that each company should have social responsibility and also a role in its own right to give back to society. Well, in my opinion, the key role of a company is, in fact, to be successful, to make a profit, to pay a very good salary, to invest in innovation, research and development, to grow through it. And if there is profit for owners, then really, in the end, both employees and owners should be able to contribute to donations or voluntary activities. How do you share a natural person and entrepreneurs? How's that feeling of yours? And do you have any comment on the first part of my question? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U129	Thank you, Heiki! However, the first thing about companies is that we cannot expect, and even moral obligations cannot be imposed on any company to do so. Although, I'm coming back to it now, a chance to help others is a privilege. In the sense that some are more successful, some have received more from nature, however, I would stress that. But it really can't be expected that anyone would make any donations. The main objective of the company is to make a profit, to pay taxes honestly, and when it is done, it has done 99% of its task to the state. Whether or not he adds something to it is the free will of everyone. There is also a voluntary moment in the donation: no one can be forced to donate, because in that case it would no longer be a voluntary donation. It is still fundamental that entrepreneurs themselves decide how to behave. Secondly, I think that in time this is part of the business plan of the company, how I say. Maybe this "business plan" isn't exactly the right word, but the same thing Martin Villig was referring to. I wanted to ask him if the list of Estonian companies in Founders Pledge could be seen anywhere. In my opinion, this could be promoted by those who are involved in a similar matter. I don't know if they have any kind of sign, like a quality mark, just like ISO, that I'm gonna put the same Founders Pledge mark and people will understand. So it might even be part of a business plan of 1% does, but maybe it'll be 2% back because it's so high-rated, right? In this sense, I think that society, too, appreciates not only what it does narrowly and what its fundamental duty is. Of course, he is working and has made a huge contribution to it, he has paid taxes and he has also made a major contribution to the country. But society's expectations in time are still growing, and in the case of more successful companies, it is expected that it will share back what it has done first and foremost, but it has also contributed a little to nature. I think that expectations will grow in time. Let's just say that those who want to be right next door aren't marked by that quality. However, there is no reason to make any comments to those companies that do not. This cannot be an obligation, because then this is not the right thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U130	Marko, Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Since our focus today is largely on donation, it was inevitably remembered that, for at least two years in a row, the press pressed the members of the Riigikogu extremely hard, attacking the members of the Riigikogu, both on the right and on the left, by publishing the members of the Riigikogu to whom they have donated their salary increases. All 101 members of the Riigikogu were on this list, who tried to get information from them both by e-mail and called everyone, and then [were also investigated] from those NGOs to whom they were known to have donated. Most, however, did not share the information. I know those who have said in the hallway that they will not donate to an NGO, because a certain NGO disclosed some of the members of the Riigikogu who had donated but for some reason did not disclose all the names. How do you feel about this? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Are members of the Riigikogu so public that they have to share all nuances of their lives with the media?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U132	Thank you, dear colleague Marko Šorin. I remember this episode very well. One word, a compound word, was enough for me. If you remember, they didn't accept me telling you what I've done, but they insisted on a display. Come on, where have we come from? It was enough for me not to submit [data] to this publication, although at the same time I had made certain contributions myself. I really promised to do some part, and somewhere I did some little part when this first phase of the COVID crisis was, but I didn't send that data there. The fact that some people's data were made public, some not, is rather the finger of these organizations. I think they didn't have the maliciousness not to disclose everyone, but rather it was like a finger. Unless they took the border, that we would disclose those who have donated, I don't know, over 100 euros or whatever, there would be justification. So in that sense, I do believe that neither members of the Riigikogu are any different. Of course, the public expects greater transparency in our case. But let's say, just as there is no reason or right to assume and demand from any company that they make donations, no one has the right to demand from any member of the Riigikogu that they make donations. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But I believe that most of us will do so anyway and even more after today's debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U133	Yeah. Good Henn, we're out of time for questions and answers, and I can't take that question anymore. Thank you very much, Toomas Kivimägi! Now we can go to the negotiations. And first Peter Ernits has signed up, but I don't see Peeter in the hall, so Andres Metsoja will come. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you to all speakers and questioners. I also think that such debates have a place in Estonian society, and certainly in this Chamber of the Riigikogu as well. Yes, Estonia actually lives by the principle that no one is left behind. Nobody gets left behind. I think that the Estonian budgetary system, tax policy and regional policy must represent very strongly the principle approach of how Estonia is a whole, how every citizen has the opportunity to cope and how it is possible to live in every corner of Estonia. This must be the base for which we stand every day in this Chamber in one way or another. This topic of donations, which we have talked about a great deal about today, represents, in my opinion, exactly how we are moving Estonia forward. Where does an Estonian citizen want to put money where he sees a bottleneck? Because in fact, this donation, whether it's a cancer fund or saved lives, whether it's animals or something else, is a reference to society, some kind of problem, to us all in this hall, that there's a problem, look. And society actually does this very strongly by interfering itself. I think that a completely new and principled approach, which came out of the presentations here today in one way or another, must be about how we carry the Estonian peaks, how our success actually helps the Estonian state to be stronger in the global struggle and that we survive in our cultural space and on our small plot of land. They're all in very important places. But if we now come back to the tax base again by jumping back, I think we have a very important point of view that, with different projects, we are launching new initiatives that should be innovators in a particular area, it is internal security or it is the provision of a certain service at the level of the local government that is enshrined in the law. And that's when it turns out that we have in society those brilliant-eyed people who take this cart, hauling away women's shelters, animal shelters, other important foundations, organisations and NGOs. Until one minute it becomes clear to the state that this is the important thing. This is actually so important that there is no way to go ahead with it on a project basis. Then we actually run into a situation where people have given their lives for tens of years, contributed time and resources to their families, and at one point they discover a public procurement paper in front of them, where the state is going to buy a service in this area. And that, in my opinion, is the place that needs discussion and debate in Estonian society. How are we still going to deal with these situations? Or how do we answer the questions? For example, the NGO of shelters says that listen, it is no longer possible to provide this service in the context of pets or keep these animals for more than 14 days. Conditions are completely disintegrated, we cannot, we do not have those municipal conditions in which to even provide this service, any organisation. But then we come to a new problem where the public sector says: but it is still too expensive to build these buildings. I don't care if it's a legal obligation, but it's too expensive. We want to get this service, but even the base from which to provide it is not. And here's another question: one thing is public procurement, but the other is that if we accept a commitment in society, we accept donor money and say that this is the right direction, but at the same time we are unable to create an environment, something in this link is going to be like so thin and unfinished, and eventually it will damage the whole system. I call on everyone to think about this and to take initiatives of all kinds. Also in Pärnumaa there was just a good example... I'd like an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U135	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U136	In Pärnumaa, too, in the context of this same women's shelter only last week, a call for tenders was opened, which said that once again it would not be possible to obtain this service, because the local government envisaged a much smaller amount. The question now is that we actually give the know-how and the problem-handling to the non-profit sector, who is dragging and developing. But at one point, when this service is obtained, it is said that it is not really feasible for them. This search for balance is vital. By the way, I really like the Swiss model in the context of the education sector. Switzerland has created its own educational model just as all children are equal when they go to school, starting with sports equipment and everything that is necessary at the beginning of education. But they have built this model so that at one point a selection will take place, where indeed donors, organizations will come to the aid of those who see talent, who see direction and who need to put more money in. I think that, in fact, this is also a serious point of thought and an initiative, precisely when we look at the whole world of education, recreational education and our talents. It was only a few years ago that we had a debate in this Chamber about whether private education should be more privileged than a school network paid with public money. That was quite an interesting debate. At the same time, we see that it is this private education approach that offers a great deal to society. Donators are also coming to the aid of society today, saying that this direction needs to be amplified. But on the other hand, we're sitting in this hall and we're wondering with the Rectors and with the Minister of Education and Research, how we can still get more money for research and development. I think it is very important to stress that if we now call for changes in life, too, so that legal persons can donate in one way or another, it is important to stress that a very narrow part of the donation should not go to solve the problems that the state has had to overcome, but that the money should go to a large extent in order to grow our society and make Estonia bigger through research and development. If we are successful there, it is actually the world of thought that is building Estonia. It's not necessarily a thank you, it's a thought. I think that is where we have taken an important step forward in this Chamber today. Thank you all for this initiative. Perhaps in two years' time, we will see some of the people again on this subject in this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U137	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. I am not a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Let's just say I was happy to talk about a coherent Estonian development plan and civil society. Now I can hear a good colleague saying that we actually wanted to talk about donating. Well, okay, yeah, great. But there's a whole other story written here. So I'm going to follow the title of today's agenda, not the donation. I thought we were talking about meters. This is a very serious document that describes both real life in Estonia and Estonians who are outside Estonia. It talks about those who come here, they come with strength and much more, and about maintaining the stability of Estonian society. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about donating. Of course, it's nice to donate, and Grandma Maria or Marta, what her name was, everyone feels sublime when you make small donations. But what really is it? Here, a coherent Estonian development plan states that there are many people living in Estonia with different languages and cultural backgrounds, and Estonia is becoming more and more diverse given the trends of the future. I'm not going to quote any further. After all, the current situation is as it was when you remembered, the song was written "Stop Lasnamäe! " Stop Lasnamäe, yes. I don't know what to stop right now and who's writing this song. It's the same, but there's not much to talk about. But if a new so-called Lasnamäe emerges somewhere, how can we cope with this new Lasnamäe? They speak a completely different language or languages, have different skin colors on this new Lasnamägi, and so on, and so on. This should be said much more seriously and discussed now. Or another thing: how to manage outside Tallinn? The closed session of the Special Committee on State Budget Control yesterday morning was shocking for me, but since I have been in contact with it for a long time, I was not surprised at all. Internet, fast internet everywhere, where there are so-called market failure areas. Pretty name: market failure area. Most of Estonia is a market failure area. Turns out the plan was to be ready by 2020. And now, soon as this report becomes public, everyone there can read that it will be another ten years, but it is not certain that it will be done in ten years. And that means that these grandma Marias or Martas or all the others, Uncle Jüri and Jaanis, who live here and there in a so-called market failure area, are very difficult for them. Well, roads are in place at times, not in the best condition, but they still haven't gotten there, don't know when they will. The E-Governance, the Taavi Eagle, and all this company have been full of shit. Hasn't arranged it, has spoken nice words, without impact analysis. The result is here. In fact, we do not have a large country. We could discuss it, be honest and tell each other how it really is. But I'm coming back to civil society now. I looked at a couple of articles that were written here. Kari Käsper wrote a beautiful article, although years have passed, 'Estonia's meaningless civil society'. He writes: "Many NGOs are the third sector in name only, because they have become the extension of the hand of our thin state, the political and will of the state. " On paper, everything is beautiful again, just like many other things, the same paper or document, or the development plan, as are many others, but the reality is quite different. That's what we're lying to ourselves, and we're pretending to be, but they're actually living for the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U139	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U140	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U141	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U142	Yeah. In fact, they're dependent on the state. Luckily, not all of them. But the funniest thing is that the so-called NGOs who are on the state's payroll and state's extensions come to fight and convict the country. It's kind of like a cossack for fake-free connections. Tanel Paas has also written a very good article, "Wordest NGOs are dependent on the state." There's nothing new here either, is there? This means that the country is thin. Good, why not? Thin. The other thing is, does he have to be so thin? But then it's sort of solving the country's project-based tasks. Policy-making takes place through false NGOs, which seem to be the foundation of democracy, but in fact... Should that be the case, it would be a long time to discuss it. And so on. But again, at the end of every year, I'm pretty upset when the Christmas Tunnel comes back. Knowing the cost of health care for the Estonian state and as soon as tears are drawn out in the Christmas Tunnel: talent, donate! Medical equipment and stuff. That's great. It's really nice to donate, isn't it? Many people do it, and they sincerely do it. But that should be a great task for the state. Well, Dr Everaus, my colleague, said correctly here, said that the collection of funds for the Hille Tänavsu Cancer Treatment Fund is largely under compulsion, because the introduction of new medicines in Estonia that could extend their lives will take a lot more time than necessary. So why don't you just stick around? But this is again a lack of flexibility, rigidity. And a hat off in front of people who have really been betting. But fortunately, not everything is so black and white. Martin Villigu's performance here showed that yes, there are good people who do and contribute more than any ordinary person. The fact that we may have political differences should be this way. But it should also be possible to talk and not label who is Nazi and who is not Nazi. Estonia is quite small and there are not many of us. So I would have expected a wider discussion. Or at least in the future, Thomas and colleagues, one could formulate the subject as you even discussed,... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U143	Time, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U144	... so that the rest of us know what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U145	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable waitresses! Civil society in Estonia is often spoken very much when it comes to the third sector, but in general we should still try to move towards it so that we have a society of citizens, that is, a society that relies on the citizens' own initiative and on our own contribution. I'm sure he is now, but there could always be more. The current crisis is such a test of humanity and, in fact, a challenge to cooperation and community. It also shows that we can solve major problems together. There are many examples of life itself. After all, helping the elderly is the people who became ill because of the corona. The neighbor came to help, the comrades act, advise and support. The Food Bank has been discussed here today. The citizens' initiative is also, in some respects, a glue that binds people, gives faith for the future and boosts confidence. Here are examples of social activities, village movement, volunteer rescuers, relief officers, neighborhood guards, the Defence League. All where people participate in our community on the ground, and all the activities they contribute to voluntarily, actually bind the community. No matter how big this community is, it connects. There's a social relationship, there's a feeling and a feeling that we can count on each other. You know, I've got a chance to bet. Young people are also very important in civil society, because they must become a good citizen. It must be a chance to grow up to be a good citizen. Youth councils, student and student councils, scouts, guides, Young Eagles, Daughters of the House, all kinds of organisations. Perhaps sometimes, by looking aside, it seems that this is an activity between young people. For some even it seems, I've heard it's a game. But in fact, they do not even play in these organisations, but they go through all that is later needed in society. In a large number of representative organisations such as the same student and student councils or youth councils, all the processes of democracy that we have in society are being played through. The more they are, the better they support, the more we can help from this hall, the more people go to talk to them and give them advice, the better citizens will come in the future. Perhaps there is no democratic state if NGOs, voluntary activities and interest protection are not extensive and evolving. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U147	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U148	Thank you. There has been quite a lot of talk here today about the contribution of entrepreneurs, as well as people themselves. I just want to say no to that. Here was a recent example of education, where private money can be put into education. You see, with this donation, no matter how good it is, there is one problem: it does not spread evenly in society, it does not reach everywhere and it does not reach everyone. That's the biggest problem. That's why there's a country. Certain functions, certain things that are important for us to develop together as a society, be it education, be it security, they must be borne by the state, above all by the state. That's what the state is for. After all, the state is also a joint project of cooperation between people living here, civil society organisations and companies operating here. I would even call it a platform for cooperation. We should see the country like this. And these [eelloated] functions must be performed by the state. In this sense, of course, it is very good to see how one of today's performers has contributed well, whether it is the same Jõhvi code school or the call for IT people to be able to live in rural areas. This is a very important step in regional terms, because we should look not only at money reaching these regions but also at knowledge getting there. Ultimately, knowledge and people are those who create social wealth, and less so is needed to redistribute at national level. These are all very good examples, but I think they all also give the message that the country is not working there. In these places and in these areas, the state is not working. Creating a code school is the perfect, very necessary thing. But why doesn't the country do it? Actually, it's what society needs. Not only do we need it in the region of Ida-Viru County, but we also need it in South Estonia. We also need it in Central Estonia and West Estonia. These things are the functions of the state. We can be very grateful to respected entrepreneurs, but the role of the state should be here. Or the state would have to do these things with entrepreneurs, but in the end, everything would be evenly distributed. Now, what else were we talking about? Donations. I didn't understand your call very well, Thomas. It's time, I've heard it in the electoral programs at the socialists in Tallinn. I don't know if you meant it, maybe not. I suppose you meant it: it's time to do something. At least that's what it looks like to me. But when you said it was time to do something about the donations, I say the Social Democrats are ready. We've actually talked about this. And I also believe that there is a will in other political parties that we will solve this donation problem. I don't care how he works out. Thomas here very well described one, two or three ways to approach it in the Commission's report. That's what we can agree on. It's the will that matters. I agree, if it's time, it's time, let's do it. We don't have to rely on him to be in a coalition agreement somewhere. I think there is a very good and constructive composition in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as very good advisers, and we have very good officials from ministries as a partner. So let us make it happen so that people can make more untaxed contributions. Ultimately, this small amount, which is going to decrease from that state budget, is nothing compared to how much the effect will result if more volunteer work is put in it. It's a lot bigger than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U149	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Good waitresses! Thank you for this debate today. I actually liked this format in the sense that we did not take the whole of civil society on a wide scale. Well, it's so big that then we should have been here at least a week in a row. We certainly took my gratitude and my appreciation for one area and for that. This gave the opportunity to look a little deeper into this subject. In my speech, I will focus on that, my focus is actually on donations. Civil society is based on volunteering, it has its strength, and there is no doubt about it. One part of it is donations when we think in a material way, and it can indeed be viewed more widely, such as the donation of our time or some form of intangible activity. But maybe it's worth keeping a narrower focus here too, so I'm holding and watching material or financial donations together. This is despite the fact that our country is small. Anyone who can think and should think about how he himself will make our country bigger and stronger without letting certain numbers of money pass right before his eyes. Areas where donations play an important role. Well, it's kind of a double thing again. On the one hand, you could say that there are many, fortunately, and on the other, you could say that there are unfortunately many. Fortunately, much of this shows that the potential base to which our people have volunteered is very large. Today we have heard that this base has grown significantly, and this is definitely positive. We also heard that the potential is even greater, and now it is wise to find a way to exploit this potential. On the other hand, this regrettably much was said by my good groupmate Andres Metsoja, both in his questions and in his speech, that seeking a balance often tends to be this way: where a country cannot help, voluntary action takes over there. This has been historically the case, but it's also a bit slippery. Sometimes the state may be tempted to leave this area behind and say that you can resolve it voluntarily and if you don't, you can solve your mistake. Here we should still maintain a certain level of quality. I look very positively at all donations. I believe that when donations are collected on Christmas Eve or around the New Year's Eve, all those people who donate are heartbroken. But I'm sure there are even more heartfelt people who volunteer for all of this. This contribution must not be underestimated and is almost impossible to overestimate. It's very important. These areas, really, we are talking, for example, about health, which is a very close subject to us, but also about social affairs, education, culture, sport, the environment, this is all such a natural part of which we contribute voluntarily. Maybe a little more specific... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U151	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U152	We should do so, and we could actually do it during this term: we will take the [tax-free] amount of this donation to EUR 1800 per year. It's not a lot of money, it's about 10% of the average wage. Indeed, it is true that some people, such as us, have a greater chance to bet, but this does not have to be accompanied by a tax exemption. On this average [wage] basis, we could bring that amount. In my opinion, this also shows that the state is noticing a person. Maybe the person will also donate the money that came back, and there's a chance. But if the state notices the good deed that the donor has done, it is not really worth underestimating. I liked Martin Villig's report, the entrepreneur's side, and I really liked the message, the efficiency side. When we make a donation, it is actually not only in business but also in life more broadly that we need to think about how we can be more effective, both in saving the environment and in doing what we do on a daily basis. And this donation we're going to focus in such a way that it will bring the most benefit. The idea that we should have these reports deserves stronger progress. We could be the leaders here. It's more volunteering again, but we could be in charge here with our many companies or sub-unions that we're communicating with anyway, and take that message there. We need to pilot and establish this base so that we can really make our donations work as much as possible for civil society and our country. Of course, one might think that it would be possible to increase profits that are not taxed on companies, so that the amount that goes through donations to charity would also be exempt from income tax. When we look at national bureaucracy, we see that it should be dealt with. It is still rather embarrassing if the Cultural Endowment is not included in this list, which would guarantee income tax exemption. So, the state's contribution is also important in order for more donations to come, and we should make sure that our entrepreneurs are strong. I would like to stress here once again: the biggest social role of companies is to be well-functioning, to be effective, to pay very good salaries for their employees, to make a profit for their owners and thus to ensure greater potential for donation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U153	Thank you. I'm looking at our talks and I understand we're not gonna fit in at 1:00. The initiator of the debate has asked for the session to be extended until the agenda item is exhausted, and that is what we need to vote through. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed that, if the debate does not end by 1 p.m., the sitting be extended until the item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a position on whether to extend the sitting and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U154	The extension of the sitting is in favour of 14 envoys, against 1; we are working until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Now... Riina Sikkut has a procedure, right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U155	Yeah, thanks! Just as a message to the Bureau and for the sake of the verbatim report, I wanted to say that yesterday we discussed an overview of the strategic developments in the field by the Minister of Education and Research. There was a long discussion on whether to allow two questions or whether to allow everyone to speak. I took a look at this debate, I took part. I did get the feeling that, since all these areas are actually so broad from the secondary growth of teachers to the effects of the school network and the corona, we will not be able to discuss them with a single question and with the speech of the representative of the group. Just for the next time: if we are going into any of the following areas, we could consider either two questions or allowing everyone to speak after the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U156	I'm sure the board will discuss it. I guess I didn't announce the result. The hearing is adjourned. Please, Marko, Šorin!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U157	Good manager! Good Members in the Chamber and all the waitresses who have spoken today! I am speaking here on behalf of the Central Party Group, not as an ambassador. This is where the manager got a little confused with the speaking order. But that's it. It is extremely nice that civil society bottlenecks were mentioned by the Minister in his speech from the very beginning, and he also made a promise that he would continue to deal with them and go on with it to the government. Let us hope that there will be positive results. I will take a little look back on our past, as I pointed out on one point. Despite the fact that the number of people who participate in NGOs has increased steadily in recent years and that the donations of private individuals have increased at a faster pace than those of companies, in 1940 economic co-operation had involved nearly three-quarters of the Estonian population, and this in its time made the Republic of Estonia a real citizen state. This cooperative activity began in two places in Estonia at once, but there is still a debate which was established in the joint society of users before, whether Sindi or Antsla. I have an interest, of course, that Sindi's is the first to be recognized, which, according to the papers, was founded a month earlier. There are conflicting ideas about how to achieve greater cohesion in society, and in this sense we are now at a crossroads. It is therefore important to establish common understandings and a common concept for the development of civil society, which we discussed today in one of the focus of narrow donation, but the chairman of the committee explained that this was the Commission's request for us to talk about a specific subject. A credit to the Commission for that. But what are the threats and obstacles that hinder the even more vibrant development of civil society in Estonia? I made a backwards past and, as you can see, we've been even more active in the past. There is no point in imposing active membership of civil society on the basis of slogans or slogans. Civil society is at the heart of a coherent and inclusive society. We are pleased to note that Estonia has a total of 23390 non-profit organisations and that 49% of people participate in voluntary activities. This is confirmed by a study carried out in 2019. We also have a number of NGO players here in the Riigikogu, whether they are members of the fire brigade, in the rescue of the sea or in other activities. Many are involved in many activities at once. And, unfortunately, there is another side to this number, the dark side: some people are not involved in NGOs at all. Like Kristian Jaani, I would like to highlight the role of volunteer rescuers and relief police officers in strengthening civil society. A hat in front of those great people who make such an important contribution to the security of our small country. By quoting the classics: any person can ask himself what I can do for the country, not all the time asking what the country can do for me. How, though, can more people be involved? The greater role of civil society in the country grows through greater trust and role models for its people. An increasing number of people could be involved in decision-making in areas where there is a very high public interest. For example, the election of the President directly, whose debate in the Riigikogu has, unfortunately, been reduced again. At the same time, several municipalities already have an inclusive budget. The circle of such municipalities could be further expanded, so people would feel that their own lives depend more and more on their own. One of the most effective ways to influence Estonia's life is undoubtedly participation in politics. After all, political parties are also NPOs. Political parties represent one of the most important forms of civil society, leading the political life of the Estonian state. It is therefore the responsibility of political parties to offer constructive debates in the public sphere, which would address people and bring new players into the parties' activities. More time, please, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U158	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U159	Finally, our survival depends largely on sharing ourselves with our fellow citizens and society. We all have a daily relationship with each other, and we depend more on each other than we know. Creating a secure, active, mutually supportive and trusting society is a long process that everyone should contribute to. That is why it is very important for us to further develop the concept of development of a common civil society. The Centre Party supports Minister Kristian Jaan's initiative to go to the government with the issue of income tax. I wish everyone the strength to build civil society and thank those in the Chamber for their attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U160	Thank you. Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U161	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House and certainly also behind the screens! And all good supporters of civil society! I would first like to thank the organisers of today's debate. This is a very important subject, although the number of people in this Chamber does not directly reflect it, but I think that a lot of ideas will be taken from it. A reminder is that Estonia is lagging behind by all kinds of indexes in terms of inclusive democracy and participatory democracy numbers. It is indeed a pleasure that, as we have learned today, active citizenship is increasing, and also the number of people contributing more. There is certainly another important aspect of entrepreneurship and business activity. An area such as social entrepreneurship, raising corporate social responsibility at all, is also very important here. I myself teach at the university the subject of business ethics, in which we discuss with strategic managers, for example, exactly how Estonian companies can feel more about social responsibility. The first surveys organised by the Open Estonia Foundation looked at how entrepreneurs stand out with social entrepreneurship and what they want to do. At the time, many companies considered it important that they pay taxes years ago. We have come a long way from this situation today. It is simply compliance or payment of taxes that is no longer what companies boast, but indeed, as we have heard from Martin Villigu today, it is rather thought of the social impact that is being achieved. It is not only to take care of the employees of your company or to create a suitable working environment, which is actually elementary in order for the company to flourish and start making profits, it is not even a charity and helping someone, but it is precisely the achievement of a wider social impact. Here I would also like to give you a ray of hope. I myself am the chairman of the Higher Education Support Group, and I am very hopeful to think that the Coalition Agreement states that there will be more opportunities to include private money. This concerns the contribution of individuals to the way the learner pays himself. This concerns private donations, which are quite largely collected by the University of Tartu Foundation, for example, by issuing scholarships named after them. Very many scientists donate research awards or give their life's work or heritage in order to support students' activities. But we should also reach out to businesses to make greater use of it, because through higher education, the social impact can be ensured to the greatest extent. In this sense, the debate about what the tax environment should be is probably not enough for altruism alone. Perhaps it is not always enough to think that the contribution of entrepreneurs can increase their workforce. I believe that supporting this same Jõhvi school will increase the workforce for the IT sector. But I think that a discussion about what came up here today, for example, what social influence we want, what kind of Estonia we want, what kind of world we want, when we talk about a green turn or a digital turn, but also about raising our sense of responsibility, could be a forum for discussion where we would move in the next step. And companies could contribute to it. In the United States, there are a great many disciplines and educational chairs, not only private donors, but also companies that contribute to the promotion of higher education, and this is how society wins. I'll tell you a more fun story. When I went to a conference visit in the United States and got to know the ethics centers there, my tea was also... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U162	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U163	... John Hopkins University, where the medical ethic center was being opened. This center was opened in an old police house that had been restored. A small centre of ethics was opened between the huge high buildings and hospitals and was very successful and created with the support of private donations. When I went in there, there was one place that wasn't filled. There was a big notice board by the door. I asked them if there were any reports and information on where something was going on. I was told, "No, this is where we put the names of private donors in golden stars. " Clearly, the same donors need to be kept in mind. They have to be thanked. That is what I tried to say to the Chairman of the NGO when I asked my question today. I think that the same gratitude and how we show that every cent or kope or euro donated has reached the right place is not only a donation culture, but also a culture of gratitude. We should think about it every step of the way. We can also place on all the things that we have been helped with a report that it has been done with the help of donors, even if they do not want it. Because gratitude itself actually grows. Philosophically, gratitude is one of the hardest feelings. It is said that in the case of justice, you can mathematically calculate what is fair, but in the case of gratitude, it is rather a matter of conscience. I want to develop a sense of conscience for all people of Estonia, so that we can recognize how we can be grateful to those who help to make our lives better. I thank all our Estonian donors from this Riigikogu chair, whether private persons or entrepreneurs, and I think the entire Reform Party will join me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-10_U164	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. We can close the negotiations. The item is therefore exhausted and today's session is closed.
