ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good viewers! We will begin Riigikogu Question Time on 9 February. Today we have briefings with Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse and Minister for the Interior Kristian Jaani. As usual, the members of the Riigikogu have two minutes to ask the question, three minutes to answer the question, and we will allow you to ask one additional registered question on the spot, as we have 13 questions. And by saving time, let's go to the first question... Still, we'll do the presence check, of course we will. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U2	At the Question Time, 23 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present and will be added.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U3	So, now the first question posed by Riina Sikkut is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the subject of price increases and coping. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U4	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! When we saw the inflation figure in December that annual inflation was 12.2%, we started to think that we hadn't seen such a number for many decades. January was no more pleasant than inflation of 11.3%. Food prices increased by 11%, transport prices by 17% and housing costs by 31.5%. All these product groups and service groups are very difficult to replace. And many of these costs are those that cannot be avoided. However, the costs that can be avoided, such as entertainment, cultural costs, are in sectors that have been hit very badly in the crisis anyway. And we know from the past that people are also gonna stick together in dental care. It is an expensive service, but it is actually very necessary, with long-term health effects, but something that can be abandoned if food prices make such an increase as they do now. We're talking about an increase in the average wage. And indeed, in recent years, the increase in average wages has exceeded the price increase. At the same time, we need to see very clearly [see] regional inequalities. In Võrumaa, Valgamaa, Ida-Virumaa, Jõgeva County, half the people on the islands earn less than 1000 euros and have little savings. So the situation is that in the store we all pay a higher price for food and pay more for heating and electricity with our bills. Housing costs have also increased for those who rent home. There are significantly fewer recipients of wage increases than those who already feel the current cost pressure. Does the government see the problem and what is being done to ensure that people survive in such an inflationary environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U5	Thank you. Indeed, price growth has been unexpectedly rapid in recent months and this inflation has had a direct impact on people. One side is the appreciation of energy carriers that we have wrestled to help people. What is positive is that Eesti Pank estimates that these support measures for energy [costs] have helped to contain inflation, but not enough, of course. It is also positive that wages have increased faster than inflation, but this is probably not directly helping people today. If you look at the experts' assessments, it is considered that this [tendence] is not long-term. At some point it turns and energy prices, which affect all other inputs, should still be either a downward trend, but at least stay. This could slow the overall price increase. It is also positive that when we take economic recovery, when the economy is doing well, people are doing well too. And the economy has recovered well. Eesti Pank has said that this price cap for households, when we talk about energy, has helped to curb the rise in prices. The economic situation in Estonia is quite good, the economic recovery has been faster than in many other countries, but therefore inflation has also been faster. If you look at the long term, it is also positive that in the long term, if Estonian prices have increased by an average of 28% over the last ten years, the wage has risen by 92% and the minimum wage has even increased by 125%. This is in retrospect, but specifically in terms of inflation, we are following very closely. And, of course, we are trying to help precisely those who are most affected, who, as you say, are unable to cut off spending on food and household expenditure. So the tools that we have: one way is to increase income support to help those people who are the hardest, for whom the price increase is very important. The second option is to look at what we can still do here, given that the price increase is not only dependent on Estonia, but also, unfortunately, on many factors that are out of our control.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U6	Riina Sikkut, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U7	Thank you. Indeed, price increases are not only dependent on Estonia and not all factors are under our control. Therefore, the effect of price increases on those for whom it is very painful should be mitigated very clearly. The average numbers are really beautiful for Estonia, the average for the last ten years are also beautiful, but there are very many people and families, whose situation is very different from the average. Looking at relative poverty data, we actually know that one fifth, more than one fifth of Estonian people, still live in relative poverty. However, the situation of pensioners, especially those living alone, is particularly difficult. And when we look at who else is sadly getting worse, the latest poverty data show that single-parent families are one target group whose situation has deteriorated. This means that these families should also be supported more for the benefit of children in the context of price increases. But in addition, the situation has not got worse, but the situation has never been good for the people who are looking for work. People who live on unemployment benefits have been doing very badly since then. What are the government's plans to support the livelihood of the elderly living alone, households with children, including single-parent households, as well as the unemployed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U8	Thank you. Indeed, the people you referred to are the hardest. As far as pensioners are concerned, we have taken quite a number of steps to help pensioners. Firstly, the benefit of a single-living pensioner will rise from October, and will rise significantly. Secondly, the average pension was exempt from income tax, which means that this part of pensions will not be deducted either, which means that more money will be left to the person to cope with his or her expenses. And thirdly, extraordinary pension increases have been planned, and pensions will rise from next year [more than indexation is foreseen]. Now, as far as families are concerned, I very much agree that it will be harder for those who also spend on underage children, especially single parents, to cope. Once again, it should help them specifically to have targeted measures that help these people in particular. Every time we do something with a certain amount of money, there's nothing else we can do with that money. Therefore, keeping the focus on those people who need help the most is, in my opinion, very important. What are the tools to avoid so many people in relative poverty? Income support is one of them, [higher] pensions for the elderly are another such option and indeed, these three steps we have already taken. When it comes to subsidies for energy prices, the measure is also specifically targeted at those with lower incomes. For those who have applied for [the aid] at the moment when I last asked, the average amount applied for was EUR 130. That's a lot of money. After seven months, there is an opportunity to apply for this benefit, which will reduce the price increase in order to save its costs. The state is helping to cope with these costs. But yes, you have to look further at the families with children, but not all families with children need help. Help must be directed at those who really need it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U9	And now the matter registered on the spot. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U10	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! These three steps, which you have talked about here, only one of them will happen this year, which is an increase from 115 euros to 200 euros for pensioners living alone. All the next steps will be taken next year, 2023. In addition, there is the hope that the issues of long-term care will be on the table and the priority. It is precisely that I get the impression that your message is now: hold on, wait a year, then [will be lighter]. But, actually, people need help today. I have asked you before about the rise in income support, and the Minister for Social Protection has also announced and advertised it, creating the feeling that it will be taken immediately. I also asked if the government had discussed it. The minute I asked you, you said it wasn't discussed by the government. An increase in income support would provide an opportunity precisely to help people in very difficult circumstances. Secondly, the government could consider not counting children's benefits into income. This would give families with children the opportunity to take into account that child benefit is not included in the income when establishing the income support [application]. What do you think about that? The message now, as they say, is: Hang in there, happiness will come to the yard in 2023. Well, that's not helping today. There is compensation for rising energy prices, but prices in shops have also increased, and if older people had increased their basic pension by EUR 20 from January or at least April, this would have helped them more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U11	Thank you. This proposal that children's benefits should be deducted from the calculation of subsistence allowances, which I will take with me. I don't really know how to answer that right now. I assume all these plans will be discussed at the Ministry of Social Affairs. Indeed, the Minister for Social Protection has been talking about raising the limit on income support, but in recent weeks we have had very intensive discussions about the security situation and it has been all the time actually on preparations concerning our security. But I absolutely agree with you that coping with people is part of security and we need to take steps to help people cope with the difficulties. We must take these steps, and we will certainly move forward with these discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U12	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U13	Let us move on to the second question put by Mr Seeder to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is education. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U14	Thank you. Prime Minister! There is a great deal of talk about various crises in Estonia, it is a health crisis or it is an energy crisis, and it is also a matter of security, but the fact that for a long time there is chaos in the field of education, we have not talked about. And this is a very strategic area. Today, the situation is that Estonian-language higher education is receding before English. Universities are not prepared to conclude administrative agreements with the State because the funding does not allow them to carry out their statutory tasks and does not meet the absolute requirements. The government offers one-off financial pleasures to local governments to close rural schools. Well [in this way] does not develop a systemic school network, that is, in my opinion, a completely wrong approach. The subject of primary school graduates' exams is one headache every year. Schoolkeepers do not understand, teachers, students or parents do not understand, whether the exams are taking place or not, whether the threshold is being changed or not, what will happen at all. And, finally, the government has now decided, as I understand, that the threshold for the national Estonian language examination will be waived. This sends a clear message to Russian-speaking schools and schoolchildren that the knowledge of Estonian is no longer necessary. Of course, all this confusion cannot be unraveled here, but my question is specifically aimed at why we are abandoning the threshold for the Estonian language examination in Estonia and thus giving the Russian schools the very wrong message. Why are we taking this step?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U15	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that education is in very good hands for a long time. The Minister of Education is very competent and is doing a very good job. Secondly, I would like to point out that this issue is another example of how the words of the Fatherland, when they are in opposition and coalition, absolutely do not coincide. In particular, on 15 August 2019, when Isamaa was in government, an amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act was initiated, which excluded national comprehensive school finals from the conditions of graduation. This amendment was intended to give the school as a whole the competence to decide whether to complete comprehensive school. It was coordinated by all Ministers of the Fatherland: Minister for Defence, Minister for Culture, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Justice. Just so you're clear, you've come up with a bill like this. But I'm coming to the other side now. The comprehensive school finals are compulsory and will remain compulsory. You can't finish comprehensive school without taking your exams. It is very important that a graduate of primary school can speak the official language. At the moment, grade 3 is the threshold for the comprehensive school final, but the language skills of graduates are less than we would like. This amendment has been presented to the partners for discussion. This means that we cannot talk about it in any way. It has been presented to discuss how to deal with the situation. The regulation on the coordination round proposes changes in the way comprehensive school finals are assessed, both for Estonian and Russian students. It is proposed that the result be entered in the final certificate as a percentage of the maximum result rather than setting the threshold. It is important that completion of comprehensive school continues to require that the final annual scores for all subjects are at least satisfactory, with [knowledge acquired at least] at "3'. So you can't finish comprehensive school without [knowledge]. When we talk about Russian-speaking schools, I will probably still be able to answer your question further, then, in fact, at the moment, this level has been very low. We should discuss among ourselves how to raise the level of proficiency in Estonian for middle school graduates. This is done not by one exam, but by consistent teaching and by the fact that we have teachers, we have methodologies, and the Estonian language is taught in a consistent manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U16	Specific question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U17	Thank you. Prime Minister! I was, of course, expecting an answer to my question, not an attack based on the wrong facts your advisors have prepared. In particular, the Fatherland has not initiated any such bill as you mentioned. This was the initiative of the previous Minister of Education, Mailis Reps, in the government, which really belonged to the Fatherland. And it didn't become a law because the Fatherland was against it. It has not been approved in this Chamber and we have never had our support for it. Do not disinform the members of the Riigikogu who are in this Chamber or any [other] viewers or listeners who are watching the session. And it wouldn't become a law, we wouldn't support it. To claim that losing the national exam threshold would somehow help to learn better Estonian in Russian schools and that there would be a right-way signal that you will not convince anyone. But in the current government, I understand that there are no concrete plans to move forward with regard to the transition to education in Estonian. The best solution is that the existing situation remains, that we do not reverse. However, I am asking about higher education contracts, i.e. university management contracts. We know that universities are not ready, have not yet agreed to sign. February is already underway, the current year's budget will be financed without contracts. How do you see the solution? When, then, could an agreement be reached between universities and the government so that contracts can be concluded, to know the financing for the coming years and the contractual basis for that year? Do you see any solution, compromise, and [if you see it] what it might be?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U18	Thank you. First of all, I'm going to adjust that you're putting words in my mouth that I haven't said. I didn't say you'd come up with a bill like this. I have said that such a draft has been coordinated by the Ministers of the Fatherland: the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice. In the government, you've agreed to this. That was my argument, and that is what I'm sticking to. With regard to the language [in the Estonian], it is proposed that the [exam] result be entered in the final certificate as a percentage of the maximum result. It shows what the person's language skills are, much more accurately than the grade "3," "4" or "5." It's a percentage of how much [maximum] you speak the language. A more detailed assessment will provide all parties with [clearer] knowledge of where there are gaps where better efforts are needed. In fact, it provides much more information about the Estonian language skills of basic school students with Russian language, and it can therefore be improved. Now, coming to the other side of what you are asking: funding for higher education. It is true that higher education institutions have not concluded these administrative contracts and have made their demands that an annual financing agreement be concluded to allocate these grants as an annex to the management agreement. Until these new administrative contracts have been concluded, the funding of universities will continue in the amount of operating grants for the previous year. Of course, teaching continues. And what I'm trying to say is that all the reproaches you make about higher education I think you should also look in the mirror where these problems have come from. In many cases, they have emerged from the introduction of free higher education and it would be fair to admit it. This has been a problem with funding. The conclusion of administrative agreements is an issue which the Minister of Education and Research will discuss with the Council of Rectors. He's got this meeting this Friday. Of course, these meetings have been before, but they are trying to find a solution. And if specific promises are made, a clearer solution will still be obtained if the country's budgetary strategy is discussed and it is agreed where we can actually allocate these specific amounts to higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U19	On the spot, Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! To start with, I will still settle this once again: in the previous government, EKRE and EKRE ministers fought with nails and teeth against the loss of exams. So don't spread disinformation! My question, however, is moving to a completely different issue in the field of education. In fact, the Ministry of Education supports the abolition of the upper secondary school section of smaller schools, often located in remote areas. In fact, you're paying for the municipalities and cities to close down the small secondary schools. So the [further] retreat from rural areas. I'm asking why you don't have a positive program or if you do, say it. Instead of paying money to support the closure of upper secondary schools, it might be helpful to support those municipalities who, in spite of everything, keep the upper secondary school section open in their schools, so that children of small places can also go to school near their home to maintain a more attractive living environment in the settlement, and that is where young families would like to move. Why don't you support the sustainability of the countryside? Why are you paying to shut down schools? In fact, you support and encourage rural decline.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U21	Thank you. First of all, you probably consider yourself one party with the Fatherland. Indeed, I did not mention the EKRE Ministers in half, but I spoke about the Ministers of the Fatherland who have coordinated this draft while in government. But the fact that you identify yourself, maybe it was in your own ears, because I never said anything like that. Don't start putting words in my mouth that I haven't said. As far as small rural schools are concerned, school managers are local authorities, which means that local authorities also decide whether to open, close schools or what to do with schools up to primary school level. And this is not the responsibility of local governments in any way, it is an opportunity. We know that there are many schools where there are more teachers than there are students or where students cannot be given a good enough level of education because there are no teachers who teach, for example, physics or chemistry. But I stress: it is the decision of the local government itself, it is the decision of the local community itself, which schools they hold and which schools they do not hold, whether they close, open or do something else with schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U22	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U23	Let us move on to the third question put by Helle-Moonika Helme to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is democracy. Please! [[Mart Helme says something about it.]] The mike's already in. It's okay. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U24	Yeah, I understand that's still my question. Good President! Prime Minister! My question is about democracy. We are used to Estonia being a democratic state. And, fortunately, there is, although your government's failure to deal with crises is clearly the reason why you have increasingly started using techniques that are inherent in totalitarian countries rather than democracies. Luckily for you, you also love to stress this, there are things that are not just about Estonia, but are happening in the wider world. Unfortunately, Western democracies, including old democracies, do indeed solve things the same as your government here in Estonia. I don't know if it's a broader agreement or just a simple way of resisting, because it's always the easiest way to get off someone, not to think and decide with your head. But we come back to Estonia. In Estonia, our unreasonable restrictions and the forceful spite of the tip of the syringe of the government have already led to several times that people have exercised their constitutional right to protest against such tyranny. The government's strategic communication, of course, has quickly baptized it as an anti-state instrument. But people who come to a demonstration with flags and small children do not come to a demonstration against the Estonian state; they come to stand up for their rights. When, in spring, your government's Minister for the Interior cast out power structures to a great extent to frighten us, we now saw the police quite directly raised their hands against the people and again used excessive force. I'm sure you're aware of that. As Prime Minister, do you approve?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U25	Thank you. I'd like to ask you if you're ashamed. Aren't you ashamed? By attacking the Estonian police, you are actually attacking the Estonian state. The Estonian police have been very respectful. The Estonian police have been calm with protestors, talked to them, convinced them. The way these people behave with the police, I don't know how the police are taught to maintain such peace. If you look at other countries, in other countries, even here in Finland, 50 people were arrested. We don't have anything like that. But when people attack the police, they actually attack the Estonian state. And secondly, are you not ashamed to use and justify the stars of David? If the Jews say it hurts them, that it is cynical, then you will continue to do so and justify yourself. If they say it's gonna hurt them, it's incredible! Why are you doing this? Who are you working for? Looking at what is happening in the current security situation in Europe around Ukraine, our neighbour is acting more and more aggressively and is also taking advantage of this destabilisation in different societies, but you are putting more weight on it. Why are you doing this? Who do you work for?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U26	Mart Helme, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U27	Yes, I would call the Prime Minister to order. As an EKRE party, none of the demonstrations held last Thursday were behind it. Behind none! We didn't organise a SAPTK demonstration or a motorcade. We didn't participate, except Martin Helme, who attended the SAPTK demonstration, in these demonstrations. To accuse us of something, raising our hand, breaking order, it's absolutely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U28	Mr Helme, this was not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U29	The Prime Minister should be ashamed and, on behalf of my party, I demand an apology from the Prime Minister because I am the vice-chairman of the party.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U30	Mr Helme, this was not a procedural question. Now Helle-Moonika Helmel has a very specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U31	Thank you. It is, of course, to answer the question with a question and to shirk the answers, which are actually very fundamental... My question was about democracy, and I will continue to ask. I would point out that we have an extremely serious problem in terms of democratic organisation. If the government starts using force structures to prevent its own anti-politics demonstration, then we still have something very, very wrong in society. We have a government that shuts hundreds of thousands of people out of public life, fires people from the police and the Defence Forces, and if people want to protest against this government, what does the government do? He's using armed police officers with dogs to show the people the place and literally suppress them. You say that there is no justification for how the people behaved, but there was nothing wrong with the people, the people acted very peacefully. The demonstration was very relevant and very well-established. Unfortunately, the police themselves used provocation, escalated the conflict themselves when the people left the demonstration. This video where a quick reaction dog starts physically attacking people standing by the street, I hope you've seen it. It was extremely unprofessional, extremely pointless violence. Just push, push, pull indiscriminately people, women, men, old people, go from behind, pull a man out of the crowd, throw him on his back on the street... But what if he was hurt? But what if he fell in his head or died? Then who would have been in charge? It was extremely brutal violence. Do you have any plans to do something about it and to the very Minister of the Interior sitting next to you, at last to reason to stop such excessive force action (The President is ringing the bell: "Time!") that divide and irritate the people? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U32	Thank you. First of all, Mr Helmele: Mrs Helme protects and justifies all this on the Internet, so I have a perfectly legitimate question for her. So you're in on this. Secondly, a comparison with a totalitarian state in no hello! Hey, excuse me, really, what do you mean? The fact that you can all protest shows that we have an absolutely free society. It shows that we have a free society, that we have freedom of expression, that we have freedom of expression, that we have freedom of demonstration, that we can get all kinds of things out of our mouths and say all kinds of lies. Not like when you were in the government and there was the first Coronal wave when demonstrations were banned. No one was allowed to come to the streets to protest. The police have not used force. You know, on Friday, I don't know which [mobile], let's say, wishing to whip myself, watched the videos of this demonstration that people have uploaded. The way the police acted was respectful. The way the demonstrators acted, the way they provoked the police, the way they communicated with the police, was a disgrace. I'm surprised these people are uploading videos that show the police in a very good light and these people in a very bad light. I'm not talking language here. If you take clean paragraphs, there are verbally paragraphs for attacking the police, and these people could be held accountable for it. But the Estonian police have acted very peacefully. Yes, in any case, there has been no police violence. There are no such complaints. And by the way, when people are blocking the road, they're being asked to get out of the way so that the cars can get by, or they've parked cars in the wrong zone, that's what the police are doing to ensure public order. There are roads on which cars drive, and when people go on the road when there's no green light, the police come and tell them they have to get out of there. I hope someone's filming Helle-Moonika Helmet now, really please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U33	Mr. Reitelmann, do you have a procedural question or do you have a line? Please don't tell me that we have Question Time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U34	I have a procedural question. I would like to draw the attention of the President of the sitting to the fact that Question Time is intended for Members to ask the members of the government, not for the hysterical Prime Minister to be raging in this Chamber and to ask questions himself. Get him to order, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U35	Thank you. Questioners in Question Time ask, respondents answer. And Question Time here in the Riigikogu Hall has seen different formats, different answers. So I believe that everyone answers as he wishes, and everyone asks, as he wishes. That is the charm of democracy and the pain of accepting both sides, both the question and the answer. Mart Helme can ask a locally registered question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I must say, of course, that lies come first and foremost from the Prime Minister. And when he says he's been watching the videos, he's been watching the wrong videos. These videos, by the way, we're going to put together a collage, and we're also going to invite you to your group to watch you watch a dog sit down on a person's chest, how a high-speed reactioner goes, pulls a person down from behind, how a high-speed reactioner goes, punches a man in the chest with a fist, one in the other in the third. The police started the provocations by closing down the road to Toompea. It would have been enough to have closed the road by the election service house. All the cars would fit on Toompea Street, Wismar Street, Falgi Road to Kiek in de Kök. All the cars would have fit in, and there wouldn't have been any provocation. The police started their provocations by derailing cars that are already in town, inventing some technical checks. It was a pure police provocation, which, of course, was planned in your government. And that's my question. Is this government's policy to start copying Belarus and Russia so that any dissatisfaction can be declared as anti-state action during the Soviet era? It's not anti-state activity, it's your government's activity. You're not Louis XIV who can say, country, it's me. You are temporarily Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior is temporarily Minister of the Interior, the Chief of Police is temporarily Chief of Police. Do not confuse the country, the national institutions and the people who carry them out! Do you understand that? Please answer me: do you understand that Kaja Kallas is not a state and that the government of Kaja Kallas is not a state? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] This country has had a number of governments and there will be a number of governments. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Do you understand...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U37	Mr. Helme, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U38	Stop running provocations for your own government!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U39	Thank you. I never thought of myself as a country, unlike you probably, and I don't think of myself as a nation alone, unlike you. But what I'm trying to say is that the demonstration on 3 February... I don't know if I have to answer when the gentleman has left the room. [[They say something in the hall.]] Yeah, I'll get it. There were two different things. One was a registered demonstration on Toompea. And then there was a motorcade that wasn't registered. And Toompea you know for yourself, there are very narrow streets and not all cars fit here. In addition, we have seen in other countries that when it is known that there are large crowds, large cars can drive in, and this is dangerous for people. The police kept order, guaranteed public order. Traffic had to be arranged there. And the police stopped only one person, took him to the station to clarify the circumstances, but no one was quite detained. So basically the meeting was registered, this convoy wasn't registered. And actually, some people wanted to get somewhere with cars, and at the same time, there were a lot of people who wanted to come down. Of course, the police must ensure order. And again, I admire and acknowledge the Estonian police, who have remained very peaceful, who are very... (Kalle Grünthal has left his desk and is either trying to photograph or film with his phone.) Hey, what's going on here?!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U40	Mr. Grünthal, we've got everything recorded and going live. So you don't have to get out of this place like this. Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U41	Question 4: Helmen Kütt for the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan. The topic is possible additional tasks for local authorities. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U42	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of the Interior! In the Monday Postimees, the journalist Ulla Länts had an article entitled "The municipality should deal with the handling of the drivers in the future." It was read in this article that, from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, drunks should not be sobered up by the police, but could be taken over by local authorities. And the police could only deal with aggressive drunks. The Ministry of the Interior had even pointed out that sobering is the resolution of social issues. Well, let me take a different opinion on this. I understand that alcoholism, addiction is a very serious disease and this disease has a cure, social services and health services, but above all, the person must want to. In the current situation, this raises many questions in the municipalities. Not everyone has the capacity, and I don't think it's reasonable and necessary for every municipality to have a mupo, municipal police. If you think that social workers, who are women, are going to drive electric cars sober up for alcoholics -- well, that's not a good plan. Suddenly, there's been some misinformation from the media. I hope you can give a better answer to this question from this speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U43	Thank you for your question. Indeed I can. The way this topic has been mediated through the media indeed, there may have been too much noise in it. As regards the granting of additional rights to law enforcement officials in local governments, this issue has been topical in quite a number of recent governments. Home affairs ministers, different interior ministers, have dealt with this. The question is how the local authority can perform the existing tasks even better. When we talk about the additional rights and competences of [government] law enforcement officers, this is about creating an opportunity, not making an obligation. I think that is the most important point in this matter. It has never been worth putting the local government on any additional task, but giving it an opportunity. If the local government has a desire to maintain a sobering house itself, then [it is possible]. For example, Tallinn's sobering house is built by the local government, it is maintained, the police provide this service. The police provide this service because the municipal law enforcement officers simply do not have such rights, and that is why the police have been implemented to carry out their duties. This package has been much wider than that, not only is it possible for the local government, if it has such a desire, to take the person caught by the gears of life to the sobering house, if he is intoxicated and unable to take care of himself, is dangerous to himself and can be dangerous to others. Some municipalities have this opportunity today, but there is no right. There is a municipal police in Tallinn, for example, who would have an interest and a desire to take care of a person who needs such help and bring it to the sobering house, but the law does not just give this right today. And, of course, when we talk about transporting a person to a sobering house, a law enforcement officer, a municipal law enforcement officer, must be guaranteed the possibility of defending himself if necessary. We are also talking about the possibilities for certain coercive measures to be implemented by a municipal law enforcement officer. Now, if this is the will of some municipalities, the legal space does not allow it. Although I have introduced the possibilities of moving forward with this in my office, there is no possibility of doing so today. But if this option existed in our law and the local government had a wish, then these law enforcement officers should, of course, undergo further training. It's what the National Defence Academy offers. If I remember correctly, there must be a category six qualification of a law enforcement officer, proper uniforms, equipment and training. This also requires certain investments. This training at the National Defence Academy costs 1500 euros for one person. If the local government wants to create such a service or capacity, then the form equipment, other equipment, training to access it will be somewhere 7 000 euros per person. But once again, this is an opportunity offer, not an obligation. That's all that matters. I have met a lot with various mayors, a great deal of support for [this idea], an urban-municipal association in itself supports the granting of additional rights to local government law enforcement officials, if they wish to do so themselves. It's just a matter of law to create this opportunity. Once again, an opportunity must be created. One more example. In Tallinn, a police patrol spends 7,000 10,000 hours a year sobering people only to take the person between the gears to the sobering house. In fact, the police could use these hours of work, for example, for traffic surveillance or follow-up to close-up violence. And if the local government has expressed its wish, then it could be involved in the transportation of people who are drinking alcohol. If that's what they want.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U44	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U45	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for the information and explanation that this is an opportunity, not an obligation. Usually, however, there are opportunities in the beginning and then they become responsibilities, with the local government very often not giving money. Of course, life in Estonia is not only Tallinn and the capacity of local governments is very different. At Viljandi City Hall, we will probably also hire a law enforcement officer, but this is particularly related to the confusion of parking. Indeed, it does not make sense for the police to deal with this issue instead of solving serious crimes. But my question is that, if it is desire and will, does it involve the coming of [add] resources from the state to the local government? I'm not saying it's necessary in Viljandi. I don't think Viljandi has that wish at the moment, but I don't want to say it today. But in principle, indeed, the ability to maintain municipal police in Tallinn is not conceivable. Unfortunately, it left the news, and it was very good that you could explain it to the impression that in a situation where police officials have been laid off or reduced in counties, this would be compensated by sharing responsibilities with local governments. If this is not the case, as you answered here today, it is good news. But now about the money: does it involve financial resources for the local government? It should be pointed out that we have very good cooperation with the Viljandi police on child protection issues as well as on other issues. This is done jointly and freely, not by any obligation or order.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U46	Thank you. Of course, the local government is a very important partner for the police and not just for the police, but for the various internal security agencies. Once again, in the context of this issue, we are not talking about giving additional tasks, but about adding so-called additional measures to the tasks already in place, so that local authorities are better placed to carry out these tasks where possible. And indeed, the best example we have is the municipal police in Tallinn, which is a very good partner for the Tallinn police. These one-off investments and, of course, the fixed costs I have said must be borne by the local authority itself if it wishes to create such capacity. One-off training, carried out by the Academy of Internal Defence on the same basis as police officers, costs EUR 1500. And as I said before, such a law enforcement officer must have a specific form and equipment, a certificate of employment, medical requirements must be met, professional qualifications must be obtained. It all costs and it's a circle of EUR 6000, of course fuel costs and such things will definitely come up there. The State has not planned to provide additional resources in such a situation if the municipality voluntarily wants to create such capacity for itself. But yes, once again: if the local government doesn't do it or does it, then the police as a partner will not disappear. I fully agree that it is not reasonable to create such capacity in all local governments. Or maybe there may be a law enforcement officer, but within the framework of existing capabilities, as you mentioned, maybe this parking arrangement and so on. At the same time, I am simply pointing out that, even in such a situation, a law enforcement officer must have the opportunity to defend himself when a conflict arises. Today, municipal law enforcement officials do not have the right to use various self-defenses, whether it be police gas or something. And this, too, is actually one option, [this right] could be given to local authorities so that the municipal law enforcement officer can better defend himself if he carries out his duties. He can't do it today, except for fast legs, or he'll call the police. That would also be giving you one chance. But once again, the police will always be a partner, the police will always be there. However, this cooperation is, of course, even better if local authorities have additional opportunities. If local authorities do not take advantage of this opportunity, then certainly the police will not disappear or the police will not say, I have also confirmed in the Cities and Municipalities Association that you now have this opportunity once again, today it is not in our law, please create it, we ourselves are dealing with other things. This is certainly not a situation that can arise. The partnership relationship between the police and local government is extremely important and in many areas: social work, child protection, education. It's everyday, very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U47	And now, the matter registered on the spot, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U48	Thank you, Minister. My question concerns the reorganisation of the services of the Police and Border Guard Board in counties where working hours were reduced from five to three days. Several municipalities have also approached you with this, including Viljandi City Council. Thank you, you have sent an answer! True, the content of the answer is not absolutely what was expected on the ground, but thank you very much for responding. However, the statement and the appeal were also addressed to your colleagues, the Prime Minister and the Minister of State Administration, from whom no reply has been received within the time limits prescribed by law. So I have a request, remind your colleagues that we expect an answer from them as well. But the situation is unfortunate, your letter does not, of course, open it. Your letter says it's very good and it's getting better. However, I have been approached by a number of people [who are not satisfied] with the availability of this service. And this [unsatisfied] is directed not at those people who serve there on the ground, but, above all, at the organisation of work, because of reduced admission time. For example, one last visit: a person who did not have a home on the Internet in a rural area went to a neighbor's house and tried to make an appointment by January; he got his first appointment by March. He wanted to apply for a new passport, the deadline for the passport was over. He decided to go to the office on Monday morning, because the prints for the passport must be provided on the spot anyway. He stood in line for two hours, four people were in front, then he had to leave because he could not [more wait]. He returned and registered by booking an appointment by March. And the prints he never goes to give again. That's how the process works. Do you consider such a process to be normal and really find that the restructuring of work has justified itself and that serving people is better now? Do you think it's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U49	Thank you for your question. Yes, indeed, some of the service points have been reorganized since the beginning of this year, so that they are open for service three days a week. At the same time, these so-called self-service kiosks are open every day, photographs can be taken and fingerprints and signature samples can be provided at all times. The plan is to expand this possibility further so that it is not only possible in service halls, but such self-service kiosks would exist elsewhere, so that the person does not have to go on the spot at all. The long-term goal of the PBGB is that the proportion of self-service environments would be 70-75%, so that people would increasingly take advantage of this possibility. It's 40% circa right now. I fully agree that it is not possible for all people to use it at home today. At the same time, the PBA also makes house calls in such situations, helping people in their homes, even by going on the spot with their computer. There is also cooperation with the local government. Take Hiiumaa, for example, where [reception] was taken three days a week a few years ago. It's just that Hiiu County has been very good, and in peak times, 60% of people used a self-service environment. Estonia is a digital state; we need to develop our digital capability and direct people to use more digital services. However, I agree that if people cannot do so at home, of course they must be helped. Changing a passport or an ID card is a situation that can be planned for quite a long time, unless it is urgent. Basically, this requirement is once every five years or once every ten years, and the possibility to book an appointment in the self-service environment for quite a long time in advance is entirely there. Once again, it can be planned for a very long time. But if people really don't have that chance, I'm sure the police here can meet them and help them. There is no doubt that you can also cooperate with the local government. However, I continue to think that this service is well available. Once again, about the examples you have given: these things can be planned very long in advance. ID card [valid] for five years, passport for even longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U50	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U51	The fifth question should be asked by Priit Onion, but he is not here today. So let's move on to the sixth question put by the Anti Party to the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan. This is about police action. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I witnessed this demonstration last Thursday outside the knighthood's house. It was extremely dignified. I saw how carefully the cars were allowed to pass through Toompea, how respectful everyone was, our father's prayer was considered to be emotionally uplifting. But true, it was very government-critical, I agree with that. I would point out that the police have the task of securing such demonstrations, securing the most important political fundamentals demonstrations, so that the Hartlebes and Mary Kross cannot corrupt them or provoke them. But last Thursday we also witnessed unnecessary use of force, just as we did in the past when we saw the bullying of a musician playing the Estonian anthem. After all, this pattern is the same as in previous demonstrations, only [used] even stronger force in completely unnecessary cases. It is precisely there that the videos show how people of retirement age are being vigorously ripped off, and the dog is being let on. The same people just read the Lord's Prayer there a few moments ago. Well, it's not like the kind of company you put a dog on. Exactly: the police must act in a proportionate manner, assess the situation, but I do not see any signs. I don't see any signs in these cases, and in earlier cases, it tends to happen again. And I have a question. On the basis of previous demonstrations, have you not given instructions to the police on how to respond adequately rather than overreact? And how do we manage this constant deterioration when using police force? It's your job to monitor it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U53	Thank you for your question. The police have certainly not overreacted. The police have carried out the duties assigned to them. When we talk about the last Thursday, surely two events must not be confused. One was a registered demonstration, to which you also referred, in front of the knighthood's house, and the other was an unregistered motorcade that moved to the city of Tallinn. And indeed, the movement of this unregistered motorcade to Toompea was prevented. This was prevented because such a number of cars would not fit in to Toompea. The streets of Toompea are narrow and there was a demonstration on Toompea, where there were a lot of people. Putting big cars and small cars together with people who participate in the demonstration is not a good option. This was in the police's view of risk prevention, [just because] the movement of vehicles to Toompea was prevented. Returning to the registered demonstration, then, as you said, the registered demonstration is a form of how demonstrations must be made in Estonia. Yes, the law also provides that, under certain circumstances, a demonstration may be made that does not need to be notified. There's a chance. However, when protestors set up a stage, use sound power, and arrange traffic, the police must be informed of such a demonstration. I stress, inform, not ask permission. Estonia does not have to ask for permission for demonstrations. We have the rule of law, we don't have to ask permission, we have to notify. And when this was done, as was the case with the first demonstration in front of the knighthood building, when there were lawkeepers, there was contact with [the police], the police helped, advised, and everything worked very well. The demonstration was carried out very well at the knighthood building. It started when it had to, and it ended when it had to. You made a deal. The police only received information about the motorcade on social media. It was not registered, there were no stewards, there were no specific organisers. These cars prevented traffic in Tallinn, and public transport needed to be reorganised. There was a violation of the traffic code, eight misdemeanour proceedings have been initiated specifically for violation of the traffic code. There was a drunk driver, there was a no-fire crossing. It was also a concern that some drivers would have to have a standard of duty and rest due to the law, when driving a car, when they would not be allowed to do so. In particular, in the case of heavy goods vehicles, drivers who broke the law on working and rest periods were detected. This means that such a vehicle is a higher risk factor in traffic because its driver does not comply with the law on working and rest periods and can be very tired at the wheel. So, in conclusion, once again: there was a registered demonstration, very well done, as it should be. The unregistered motorcade was definitely a source of danger, and the police stopped it. There was also a situation where a vehicle stopped traffic on Toompea Street because it was parked in the opposite direction. The police asked for the road to be freed, it wasn't done. Then, indeed, the police moved this leader to the police station and explained [the circumstances], and the traffic was also open. And there was a situation where police officers were thrown with snowballs during this incident.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U54	Anti Semi-Authority, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U55	Yes, you have made a thorough comment on the movement of trucks and cars. I really didn't care. We know that the movement of heavy goods vehicles in this city centre is not allowed at all, and this is already a matter of traffic management. However, there was an incident where, indeed, unreasonably strong force was used against the very pensioners who had protested in front of the house of the knighthood in an extremely careful manner, that is, festively and exquisitely reading the Lord's Prayer. And then those 70+ grey bearded dads were pulled down and shot at by a dog. That's what this is about. Someone made a serious tactical mistake somewhere, or something came up in his head, and now he's gonna have to start punishing those pensioners who wanted to go home politely. Of course, especially in mass control, such events may be irritated when a dog is flown on. Everything has gone wrong here at this point. That's the case I'm interested in. Do you really think there was no overreacting? The way it used to be on this cello player case. The cello player who plays the Estonian anthem is not required to perform such patetic interventions, as Kaja Kallas did. The Chello player with the Estonian anthem is not dangerous for Estonia and it is not anti-state, but they were government critical, just as every weekend or every Thursday during the previous government, there were protestors in front of the Stenbock House. There were never any incidents, but now it's all the opposite: dogs, commandos, the same pattern. It doesn't match the calm tone of these demonstrations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U56	In my opinion, the police acted with great restraint, and this support and assessment has also received a great deal from the Estonian people after what took place on Thursday. And once again, I stress, I am talking about the activities of the unregistered motorcade, I am not talking about the demonstration at the knighthood building. All the more so since Varro Vooglais himself has said very specifically that he has absolutely no connection with this motorcade. And these people, of course, had a full opportunity and the right to participate in this demonstration, park the car where cars can be parked, where it is safe, where it is possible, and join this demonstration. It wasn't stopped by anyone. The question was whether or not cars could get there. The specific incident you are referring to in a situation where the car was parked in the opposite direction and it was refused the latter, there really was a situation where people became more aggressive and the police had to intervene. He solved it, once again, very peacefully, I think. Yes, the police were attacked there with snowballs. Luckily, it was soft snowballs, sometimes it might not be. So once again, the police handled the situation with restraint. Tactically, the right measures were chosen, and if necessary retreated. So continue: the police dealt with the situation with restraint and with great accuracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U57	Kert Kingo can be asked locally. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good ministers! I would adjust so that the Prime Minister can understand, and you too, that these events are not organised by the EKRE. Please don't give people any false information. But to you as a lifetime police officer, I would remind you that the direct task of the police is to make the people feel safe, to make them feel safe. It's already become the pattern of your government that people go to the teeth to control people with guns, to threaten dogs. This is the handwriting of Kaja Kallas, and the fact that Kaja Kallas here so strongly justified it shows that his attitude toward his people is that. As a police officer, you should know what police tactics are. At events or gatherings, the police are guided by the way in which the opposing party is armed and whether [at all] is armed. A strategy will be developed accordingly. In our country, there is still a right to go to protest, there is no obligation to register everyone. And my question now is, on the basis of police tactics and general rules, that the task of the police is to arrange for everything to be calm so that there is no escalation of the situation: what were the signs of danger that led to armed police being sent to the masses, with dogs, and such an aggressive attitude? What were the warning signs previously mapped out?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U59	Thank you for your question. I never said EKRE was back here. I have not said this here that the EKRE has somehow been behind these demonstrations. Not once! As far as that tooth-tooth weaponization is concerned, I understand this theatrical expression, but every day the police are out with this exact equipment. Yes, it is! I assure you, having worked for the police for a quarter of a century, the police are so equipped every day. Special equipment, firearms, and a service dog are brought by the police every day. As far as tactics are concerned, once again, every police officer, the head of each section will choose the tactics that will take place on the ground. In this case, verbal aggression arose, which we also saw in the spring, and the police must take into account that this is certainly a certain danger. If we are now talking once again about the various demonstrations that have been organised and about how the police really assist in carrying out them, how they are partners, then I would remind you that there have been repeated torches organised by the EKRE, where the police, at least I think, have been helpful. I have also been a partner to you, and we have worked very well together on how the torch train has been conducted, how different people who may be a threat to the torch train have been prevented. We have dealt with exactly the same situations. So the police have behaved exactly the same in all kinds of registered protests, and you, as an EKRE, have received this very good service from the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U60	Mr Helme, if there is a procedural question, there is, but we really do not have a reply form here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U61	In Question Time, ministers have a duty to tell the truth. I don't know that any torch train would have been armed to the teeth and fast-reactors with dogs. Not once! There's been a few times...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U62	This is going to be a reply, Mr Helme, and the Minister of the Interior is not responding. Once again, the procedural question is not the place where it is [to speak]. Now, I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U63	We will go to the seventh question posed by Ivari Padar, Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus, on the situation regarding pig farming. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U64	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question concerns pig farming, i.e. food security in general and the availability of the niece. I have come here dozens of times to respond to such hopefully temporary difficulties when rearing pigs. And today is again such a difficult moment where we are significantly below our supply level. This trend is getting worse. And we also know what has been generally the cause of this situation: the high price of cereals and the low exchange price of [meat]. It is clear that in difficult times, the best solutions must be sought. In all this context, a level playing field between countries is extremely important. The pig farmers have argued that the State has not made full use of the possibilities available under the agreed State aid rules in this situation. What is your vision: has the Estonian state used everything that is allowed under the agreed state aid rules? And another question: what are the possible exit moments that are planned to be implemented in the new strategy's plan to overcome the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U65	Thank you, Honourable Asker. We, too, have been concerned about this sector, and that is why the government has made certain decisions. If we look at the last half of the year, almost EUR 6 million of pig aid has been paid out during this period. In addition to [animal] welfare support over 2 million. And since it is a difficult time for pig farming, we have planned, in this year's budget, an increase of almost 30% in breeding aid to alleviate the situation in the pig farming sector. The truth is, as you yourself pointed out, that, on the one hand, the [meat] stock market price is low. This is also due to overproduction in Europe, as part of the Chinese market or the Chinese market fell away. On the other hand, there was an African swine plague in Germany, and it also pushed down stock market prices. The second question was in the context of State aid. As you know, the European Commission has increased the possibility of State aid, which means that the [limit] was raised to EUR 290000, plus an additional EUR 25000 de minimis aid. Today we can say that most of the pig farmers in Estonia have State aid limits. This actually means that we have done almost maximum with cash flows. And if you say, by referring to competition, that we pay less subsidies than other European countries, I can confirm that if Europe's [pig farming] average is paid EUR 45 per livestock unit, then our sum is EUR 42. So it cannot be said that we have treated our [pig breeders] very badly. When we think about the preferences of Estonian consumers, 50% of the [muscle] that is consumed per person is pork. It is certain that in the future the consumer will have two options: whether he will consume even more pork or whether we will be able to export more. Today, these bad times need to be overcome and this has led the government to implement these subsidies in such a short period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U66	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U67	Thank you very much. The second question is how many so-called free stables currently exist in the pig-growing sector, which are not linked to any processing unit. How many are there? How much is that? One more question: I found out a few days ago that the threat of swine fever was up again. What's your comment on how dangerous the swine plague is right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U68	Thank you. About a week ago, we had a pig-growing round table. And indeed, at this table were so - called free men. The pig-growing sector knows what that means in the spoken language. This means that these free men are not linked to either Atria or HKScan farms and have a direct output of the product, or brand, to the consumer. They themselves estimate that this [share] is at 50%. This actually means that it is a pretty big and important force. I am very concerned that we have made a number of attempts to ensure that this part of the sector is more concentrated and is concentrated precisely with a view to finding ways to reach consumers better. We know that some of these pig farmers have found a way to go directly to the consumer with their products, but these options have been relatively narrow. However, if we look to the future, I think it is extremely important to reach out better directly to the consumer. The second option in the new strategy plan that you asked for is the formation of producer organisations. This will also provide better opportunities for trade negotiations. It also provides an opportunity to further involve external experts as a producer organisation in order to review the structure and content of their pig farming and to find additional opportunities. However, one concern about pig farming is that the proportion of feed purchased in this chain is very high, above 60%. As a result, the effects of the feed purchased in this chain are extremely negative as [pig] prices have fallen.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U69	And an on-site question from Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U70	Thank you very much, Head of Question Time. Dear Minister, You have opened up the measures taken to the extent that specific support can be given to pig farming. Indeed, pig farming is part of the rural functioning and rural area. But I'm going to ask you a little bit more, not only in the light of the current situation, but also in the longer term. How do you see the role of pig farming in the next EU funding period? How much is that? And actually, more generally, how could these costs even be broken down, proportions divided? After all, there is a strong emphasis on the role of the environment, which should increase even more repeatedly compared to what has been financed so far. So where does the money really come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U71	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I'm trying to explain. Farming pigs in the sense of the European common agricultural policy is not directly a priority part of this agricultural policy, but it is part of it. I will explain to you: because this [branch of production] or activity is still clearly regarded as an industrial activity. This means that it can be restored quickly, on the one hand, and there are business models that are limited, for example, to buying in feed and getting out of production. But Estonian pig farmers have one particular feature. If we compare them with European [pig farmers], we will see that Estonian pig farmers have little land. And that actually means that they do not receive any of the other subsidies that their competitors receive. This also means that they have more difficulties in managing cash flows and are more dependent on the effects of the market, especially on multiple effects. In the Council of Europe, 19 countries also raised questions to the Commission that in the light of what has happened in Europe, including Estonia, additional financial assistance could actually be provided at European level. However, this has not been accepted, and the Commission actually thinks of it by referring in part to these aspects. Another important thing is that if we look at a possible energy revolution in the future related to the common agricultural policy, it is extremely important that more alternatives to imported feed are found both in Estonia and elsewhere in Europe. This means whether we can find additional ways to develop protein crops in order to lower the prices of inputs and be less dependent in this respect. But, indeed, animal welfare support and breeding aid are part of the aid that we can actually offer to the a priori sector on an ongoing basis. The government, of course, also proceeds from this so-called crisis situation and, if there are certain anomalies, deep crises, the [their effects] will be mitigated. But if we take the money that has been paid out in the short term now, it will be close to 10% of the sales value of the same sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U72	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U73	Let us move on to the eighth question put by Heiki Hepner to the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan. The issue is internal security. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U74	Thank you very much. Good minister! Internal security, including the police, cannot boast of excessive human resources. Good specialists are missing and every day you have to think about how to create a working environment that motivates professionals to work in this field. You are known to have released dozens of people who have not been vaccinated for one reason or another. At least some of the non-vaccine patients have caused the health risks they may have, or maybe pregnancy. Some have turned to court to defend themselves, and now, at the end of January, we learned from the news that the court has prohibited these people from being dismissed as original legal protection. You have therefore written to the authorities in your field that the new COVID-19 strain, the micronth strain, is extremely rapid and the epidemiological situation shows that in the case of an omicron strain, people are similarly infected with both vaccinated and unvaccinated. We know that now COVID infected health care professionals are allowed to work unless they have severe symptoms. Your home party has also proposed the abolition of the COVID passport at national level. In the light of the above, it seems that you are actually following the process again. Is it not time to give up the release of these people and put an end to this process at the initiative of the employer? And the additional question to this is, in fact, how many internal security personnel have been released during this period because of the lack of a COVID passport.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U75	Thank you for your question. It's definitely an important subject. I'm coming forward from the back. 38 people have been exempted because they did not meet the conditions for the individual posts [as a result of the risk analysis]. The PBA has a valid risk analysis today, which I have indeed asked all authorities to update on the basis that the virus situation, the virus strain, has changed. This risk analysis in force today was carried out last autumn against the winter and at that time in this situation, particularly in the context of the delta strain, the decisions taken were fully justified, in full proportion. However, in order to reach the solutions set out in the risk analysis, 38 people had to be freed from [work]. Now, 59 people have turned to court and have received preliminary legal protection in court. These processes are, of course, still ongoing, and I would point out that in the meantime 11 of the 59 people who have turned to court and also received legal protection have been vaccinated. In fact, the PBA did a lot of explaining work within the organisation, which is given by vaccination, which is given by efficiency doses and so on. Why did I really ask now to renew the risk analysis, because the omicronth strain hits the vaccinated person and the unvaccinated person in the same way? However, I will continue to say and stress that vaccination is also extremely important in the field of internal security, even if it is because those who have been vaccinated are not going to get so seriously ill are not likely to go to hospital, they are likely to return to the service more quickly. This is extremely important in the area of internal security. I have now asked for the renewal of the risk assessments in the view of the predominant micron strain now, and these risk assessments will be reviewed in February. Professionals and health professionals in the workplace have an important role to play here, how the risk analysis of the working environment is updated and what further measures could be taken to ensure that internal security workers are better protected and are actually in the service and not at home sick.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U76	Heiki Hepner, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U77	Thanks! Good minister! You didn't really answer my question, though. I asked if you were ready to close this process on the initiative of the employer so that people should not go to an extra court to defend themselves. We have had a number of such cases, regrettably, and perhaps the most notorious is how the state is arguing with itself about setting up windmills to produce electricity. The state could, after these conditions have fallen away, put an end to this. But really, here's where this kind of illogical thing comes out, it's like they're looking for reasons not to come out with anything like clean skin. Indeed, you have said yourself that it is necessary to adapt to the situation. Your view is that people working in the field of internal security need to be vaccinated, including with an effectiveness dose. At the same time, you will find that this will no longer help to prevent infection. And I'll ask you again if you're ready to end this process on the employer's side. But there is another part of the question: Are you ready to hire those people that you have already released? I mean, those conditions have gone down. In the case of good specialists, are you ready to re-enlist them? And now the analysis you asked for in the future: could there be, for example, such a condition inside that it is also the responsibility of the influenza vaccine to vaccinate? Omicrontravirus is quite similar to influenza virus and may even have more milder symptoms and effects.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U78	Thank you. I'll start again from the back. I am not an expert in this area so that I can tell you here today what should or should not be reflected in the risk analysis of the working environment. The government authorities are completely independent in this and must look for themselves and certainly assess once again very objectively what today's situation is like in the viral landscape. If we are talking about legal proceedings and that some legal proceedings are still pending, then indeed, to date, no specific final judgment has come about [such cases]. These judgments, which concerned the initial legal protection, have led to the fact that a task has been assigned [to determine] whether compromise solutions can be found between these officials and the PBGB. But once again, in court proceedings, one party is the Police and Border Guard Board, not the Ministry of the Interior, and the Police and Border Guard Board must make these decisions themselves. I hope, of course, that these decisions will be entirely fair. With regard to the readmission of the people who have been released today, once again: people will be recruited by the Police and Border Guard Board, not by the Minister of the Interior. But once again, I think that vaccination helps and is a very important measure. Those people who were released from work were then 38 unvaccinated. Today, people who want to come to the Police and Border Guard Board must be vaccinated. So if these people have passed the vaccination course in the meantime, I'm sure I'd turn to the Police and Border Guard Board. But once again, this decision can only be taken by the Police and Border Guard Board. And now again from these different methods, whether vaccination helps or doesn't help. Of course vaccination will help. Yeah, the virus hits both vaccinated and unvaccinated people, but the important fact is definitely the probability that a person who's been vaccinated gets seriously ill and maybe gets hospitalized. There's actually a difference between times. But once again, perhaps there are other, additional measures to ensure that there are no infectious lesions within the organisation, how to ensure that people do not come to work [as a carrier of the virus] and carry the virus [as a carrier of the virus]. And so to speak, the target population here is both vaccinated and unvaccinated people, [who could] be tested, and so on. But once again, risk analysis must be carried out by specialists in the field, given the situation we have today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U79	And a locally registered question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U80	Thank you. Of course, it is completely incomprehensible to me what document, which legal value, in accordance with constitutional rights, employment contracts and everything like this, is such a thing as a risk analysis, which, as it turns out, can be changed as we move, if there is a need. And, frankly, as an unvaccinated person, I also have a very serious question about what is being discriminated against against people who are not vaccinated. What right do you discriminate against unvaccinated people? You have no constitutional and, in fact, no legal basis for this. These legal bases you've just come up with to justify your totalitarian behavior. This is the place of concern, and all this is what people are protesting about. And that's why we've developed turbulence in our internal security. You still have to put reasons and consequences in the right order, but you put people in the opposite order and blame them. Don't blame people! By the way, I'd like to congratulate the immediate responders. Quick reacters, when properly implemented, are very professional and do a very good job. We saw it in Lihula's shooting, the activity of the rapid-reactors there was just worth the gold. But rapid reactioners do not need to be implemented and must not be used in peaceful protests to irritate, provoke and then accuse people. In the cases of last Thursday, the cause and effect were also confused. The police caused confusion in parking, driving, and then started punishing people, irritating people, starting to terrorize people violently, and that was the source of conflict. And here is the reason and consequence: the reason was the inadequate action of the police, to which the people reacted with resentment. Will you learn from this, or will you continue to escalate to damage internal security?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U81	Thank you for your question. Quick reacters are exactly the same cops as constables, border guards, whoever they are. They take part in police duties every day, go to the challenges and so on and so forth. They're not waiting anywhere on the base for a challenge to react, they're there every day. They're exactly the same police officers as everyone else. Once again, when it comes to where aggression started or where the verbal attack started, it all started because a driver decided to park his car in the opposite direction and stop traffic. That's where it started, not what police officers did. Police officers intervened in the offence, and that was the beginning of the need to resolve the situation. And it was solved on the spot in my opinion with great restraint. As far as the risk assessment of the working environment is concerned, it is not an arbitrary matter. Indeed, the law obliges organisations to carry out work environment analyses and even to be flexible. And in a particular risk analysis, there is indeed such a point that this risk assessment must be updated when the environment changes. So this process itself must be flexible, everyday. No risk analysis can be stoned, so it's valid until the end of time. That is what needs to be changed flexibly all the time. Indeed, such a reference is also very specific in the risk analysis [is].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U82	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U83	Let us move on to the ninth question posed by Peeter Ernits, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers and the subject is the employment contracts of officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U84	Good manager! Prime Minister! Recently, the Secretary of State came forward with the fact that there are almost 1,200 higher bureaucracies that they need to be accredited from time to time, that they do not have permanent employment contracts. Your Minister of Justice has expressed his opinion that maybe he shouldn't. But what is your position? Is that a good idea? Right now, political power is changing all the time, but officials often watch you come, but we stay. And there's little fresh blood flowing in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U85	Thank you. Indeed, such proposals have been made so that the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act would have such an option that the number of officials appointed with fixed-term contracts would be extended directly by the directors of the subordinate entities and common requirements would be established. I believe that the rolling stone does not moss, and in fact, such a rotation would be welcome. Such fixed-term contracts would also encourage the secondary growth of senior executives and help to ensure mobility and rotation between different positions in the public service. In some ways, it also keeps the officials so-called trimming when they are accredited every five years, making sure that they meet the requirements for their position. So I'm supportive of that. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U86	Peter Ernits, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U87	Yeah, I'm glad to hear you're supportive. But will it work? In particular, I would like to ask that, if you look at the Deputy Director-General, those with roots deep down are nearly a third. But my question is, how does it divide? Do the key ministries have these top officials for life, with more than ten years of experience, more, or is it evenly distributed between different ministries?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U88	Thank you. I don't have an exact picture of it. I don't have any numbers to give you right now, how long people's contracts are or how long someone's been at work in one ministry or another. If you want a very precise answer, this [report] should be prepared separately. I don't have an exact answer for you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U89	And the matter registered on the spot goes to Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! In the Riigikogu, talk is spreading, and I have heard this talk from various sources, including the people involved, that the current government, fearing that the next government will form the Estonian Conservative People's Party after the elections, intends to set up a number of leaders of the power departments [in place of those] whose term of office will end only after the elections. This concerns the Director-General of the Police Department, the Director-General of the Defence Police and a number of other such leaders of the force. Will you confirm that your government has such an intention, or will you disprove it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U91	Thank you. First of all, I suggest that all kinds of rumors should not be spread by themselves and not be believed. The terms of office, the deadlines will be fulfilled and that means, of course, to look at who will fill these posts. After all, the situation is different for the different positions, depending on whether the person wants to leave earlier or whether the position needs to be filled earlier [for other reasons] or when the deadline is reached, and it should be clear before that, who will fill the position from the moment the deadline is fulfilled. The position shall not be missed. So everything in its own time or a little later.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U92	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U93	The tenth question: the author is Kalle Grünthal, the answer is Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaan, and the subject is compliance with the law. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question concerns police enforcement. The question consists of two parts. First of all, block the entrance to Toompea. As far as I am concerned, traffic is restricted by the corresponding traffic signs, and you had plenty of time and time to take the corresponding permits out of the city hall or put them out at your own risk. Just because you put some police cars in front of it isn't legal. Since you have given such an order to your subordinates, please state the exact legislation that allows such conduct. Secondly, I would also like to ask about the correctness of your statement that the police were extremely decent. I'm saying people have memories, too. In the spring of last year, people were taken to the police bus for every small thing, misdemeanor proceedings were initiated, and later most of the cases ended with the annulment of the court. But the people have a memory that the police don't always act the best. The most important example here is Elvis Brauer, who won the trial because he was held up for nothing. Now I ask: since, let's say, the person's detention is governed by different laws, please state what is the basis for the detention of such a person and the basis for the delivery to the police station at the very moment that he was taken away. In my opinion, this was perhaps also a misdemeanor case, but the police crossed the border and actually began to repeat the spring demonstrations. Please state these rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U95	Thank you for your question. First of all, as regards traffic regulation, risk control, hazard prevention or threat response, there are different laws. I can point out the law of traffic and the law of law. Traffic law is about who can regulate and how can be regulated. A police officer can also control traffic with his hand signals, stop vehicles. This can also be done by local government officials once they have obtained this right. When the police can do so, the law on law enforcement regulates very nicely, which, in turn, talks about combating various threats, reacting to them, and so on. So these are the two basic laws that govern such situations. Now the fact that someone has been removed from the scene is again linked specifically to [the consideration] of the safety of handling this particular offence on the ground or at a police station, for example, in the circumstances. In this case, as people showed some aggression towards police officers, the decision was taken to deal with this offence at the police station. The perpetrator was taken to the police station, put in a short trial and released. The police, including the specific police officer you had on your Facebook page, were bullying him in my opinion, were doing very well, very restrained at the scene, and carried out the tasks that police officers and police have been assigned to the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U96	Kalle Grünthal, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U97	Thank you! First of all, I'd like to correct your claim that I've been eating or teasing someone. No, I congratulated that police officer because he could be smarter than the police board put together. Do you understand? He didn't cross the line, he went to the border and just went to help his own people. That's the thing. But that your choice of tactics has completely failed will be confirmed by your current response. You said the person was put in the car, was taken to the police station because he acted aggressively. I didn't act aggressive, Mr. Jaani. He was calm. All right, I also agree that even if he was aggressive, there are procedural rules in this case, too, on how this thing is done. His identity was identified. He wouldn't have had to be taken anywhere. It would have been enough to put him in a police van and wait for the people to leave, to do their own procedure. But that's not what you wanted. You were the one who wanted to be taken away, so that this would happen again, and the people realized that there was a repeat of the spring bullshit, that men armed to the teeth would take the milk dummies and drumners, put them in the car and carry them away. That was your real purpose. It was your real purpose to defend the dictatorship of the current government. That wasn't in accordance with police law. By the way, what I'm saying is, a policeman on the street came to me and thanked me for this very post. He said: we are absolutely opposed to what you are currently doing during these demonstrations, because they have no right to criticise your actions. You see, you're manipulating people who aren't really in your favor. And now answer the question. According to what law was the right to take a person away? And why would it have been done if it could have been done on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U98	Thank you. I didn't say anything about this person's aggression. I was talking about people who were at this event and were then more aggressive than before this event. And in order not to escalate the situation, it is reasonable for the police to act in such a way as to go and retreat from the scene of the incident, including the offender. The decision to detain and how to detain can be made by the police, the police have the right to do so because of different laws. So it's a tactical move, and the tactics the police will take to solve such events, the police will decide for themselves. I assure you, indeed, this instruction is not given by the government, by the Prime Minister or by the Minister of the Interior. Its tactics are either chosen by the police officer who solves the situation, or there is a chain of command, for example, at the police event management headquarters. So this order doesn't come from the Minister of the Interior or the government. And once again, this situation had been resolved so precisely because the person had committed an offence. And to deal with an offence, the police have the right to choose where they do it and how they do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U99	Kert Kingo can be asked locally. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, I would like to correct that, please, don't tell me that every immediate head of department chooses the tactics. You are currently pushing your own Intermediate Managers into the tank and justifying the Director General, who is actually giving the guidelines. But here's my question. I couldn't help but hear the claim that the car was parked wrong, or in the opposite direction. I have a question as to whether the new code of conduct for the police is now that if, for example, the traffic code has been broken in the form of wrong parking, there will be increased forces in the field of special weapons, and the parking car parker will be handcuffed immediately and delivered. Is this the new direction for the police?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U101	Thank you for your question. I will also return to my previous statements and facts. The police were out in their daily equipment, and let's not use the term "specially equipped and armed to the teeth." The police are out every day with this equipment to protect people, protect themselves, prevent different events. The person who parked his vehicle incorrectly once more, let us not look specifically at this one violation, but look at the whole chain of events, what happened that day in relation to this motorcade in Tallinn. This person was repeatedly given the opportunity to get his car out of there. This was not the primary response of the police to immediately start an offence procedure or simply to remove a person from the scene in order to prevent a threat. This person was repeatedly ordered to move his car out of there, and he had the opportunity to leave the car where it might have caused further tension. So once again, the police do not base their tactics on just one particular event in a particular place. He's looking at the whole chain of events, what's happened before, and what might happen if the police don't use the tactics.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U102	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U103	Today's 11th question is from Kert Kingo to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, [the topic is] Government values. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In general, the government's primary task is to act in the interests of the state and the people, to respect and observe the Constitution. Now, the government you run already has a pattern and a dominating fact that you do not respect the Constitution, you do not respect the right of persons to express their minds. During your government, actions such as dividing the people, discrimination, lying to society and aggression against the people have been highlighted. In this connection, I have come up with a question of what are the values of your government. Are the values of your government now cruelty, brutality and dictatorship?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U105	Thank you. The government acts in accordance with the Constitution. The government has received a mandate from the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu has been elected by the people in accordance with the Constitution. The Riigikogu elections were won by the Reform Party, the Reform Party is currently the Prime Party and has formed a coalition government with the Central Party, which gives a majority here in the Riigikogu hall. And it has given a mandate to the government. The government answers the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu can constantly invite ministers to the carpet, ask questions, and all this is done. All state institutions operate in accordance with the Constitution. These are the values of the Estonian state. Those things you say, you say, dictatorship. Do you know what dictatorship means? A dictatorship would mean that you couldn't say all the stupid things you're saying. There would be no freedom of expression, no freedom to protest, as was the case, for example, when there was the first Coronal wave and demonstrations were banned. But in our time, demonstrations have never been banned. All people can protest against the government the way they want to, and they have been able to do so. That's what we've seen. The demonstrations are happening. Similarly, we have absolute freedom of expression, everyone can express their opinion. If you are talking about a dictatorship, you could first learn what the dictatorship really means and how things are done in such countries. Estonia is a free country, and all that is actually happening shows it. You have your own people to whom you tell, and you can do it completely freely, no one will stop you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U106	Kert Kingo, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U107	Thank you again, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Now it's a fact where you just lie and spin and twist words. If you ask questions you don't like, it's talking nonsense. And I'm sure you're talking nice talk and very adequate talk here, at least you believe it. But I would still point out that you only emphasise how you won the election and claim and read it in your head how the Constitution must be observed, but in real life you do not. You speak of how the people can freely express their words and their minds, yet you are the one who has sent, who has been led by the police, who are peacefully protesting against the people, who are using physical violence, who put irons in people's hands and takes them to the police, and so simply terrorizes people. That's what you can read about [the question], are these really your values? I'm not talking about what you memorized from your textbooks, and you're telling me here, but about the reality, about [how] you've acted. Name what your values are then, actually.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U108	Thank you. [The claim that Estonia has a dictatorship is absolute nonsense. You could say that. I'll tell you this, and if you say it again, I'll say it the same way. That's exactly what I'm gonna say to you. That's stupid. Now, come to the police: the police will ensure public order. We have agreed rules, such as people walking on the sidewalks, cars driving on the road. And if, for example, someone starts walking in the middle of a road where cars should move, the police will ensure that these rules are observed. It's a police duty. You're saying that as if people were being held in a huge way, there was a massive police violence. Where's the police violence? The protestors tried to stop the police from leaving the bus and threw snowballs at them. The police took one person to the station to explain the facts. One person! And no one was arrested. As an example, Finland, where demonstrations took place: 50 people were arrested, actually closed down. And if I looked at these videos as a purely lawyer and based on the compositions in the Penal Code and the Code of Misdemeanor Procedure, then what happened would make up, because the policemen were verbally attacked. Spiritually, they were attacked very clearly. And the police acted with great respect, listened very calmly, kept explaining, asking for people's documents. The police have a right to do that. These people have to submit their documents. It's public order under the law of law. But if there are complaints against the police, these complaints can be filed in accordance with a specific procedure. But to claim that we have a dictatorship, come on, hello! Really...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U109	And one matter registered on the spot. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U110	Hello, if you like that word so much. I watched these Finnish demonstrations this weekend, by the way. Indeed, 55 people were arrested or detained there. They were all fired immediately. All fired, identified, and released immediately. No handshaking, no handcuffing, no hauling off, no scaring with dogs, nothing like that. Nothing like that! I was watching it. We have a department in Finland, one of our department's people made a report from there all the time. We know exactly what happened there. And we also have a department in America, we know exactly what's going on in America and now in Ottawa. Don't come here and talk flies at us. Now, there was a problem, I would like to stress once again, the police who shut down traffic and caused traffic loss. It would have been the police's job to park, organize traffic, mentor people, inform people. You're in paid parking, pay up, don't get yourself in trouble. No, the police shut down the streets, pulled over a driver, escalated the situation. We'll put together a video collage and invite you and the Minister of the Interior and the police to look at it. Then you'll see how peaceful the police were. I didn't, I didn't behave peacefully. But my question to you is this: is it acceptable for you that people in the police leadership have intervened in daily politics through social media and are encouraging uncertainty here, talking about some kind of planned demonstrations, warning? Is it normal for the police to get involved in day politics?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U111	Thank you. It's like there was a handcuff removal in Estonia, and it's a lot like that. How was it? So how was it? If we look straight at the facts, but you never care about the facts... [[Mart Helme's calling out for something.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U112	Mr. Helme! (Mart Helme says, "I'm leaving." and leaves the hall.)
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U113	Let's wait till Mart Helme leaves, then I'll answer his question. Indeed, Mart Helme's story gives the impression that there had been some massive police violence in Estonia, a handcuff removal. But it didn't happen. If we look straight at the facts, the facts say that one person was taken to the station to explain the facts. One person! And after explaining the circumstances, he was fired and no one was detained. Indeed, over 50 people were arrested in Finland. To be honest, it is very difficult for us to see any such police violence. At least in all the videos I've seen, the police have explained that there's no way to get into that demonstration by car. If you want to go to the demonstration, park the car in the parking lot of Liberty Square and walk there. There's a lot of people out there, there's no room in the car, there's no place to park the car, there's a lot of snow and so on. The police have explained the situation. This is the role of the police, and the police did so very peacefully. And I am with the Estonian people who believe in the Estonian police and support the police in all ways. So I think the Estonian police have been extraordinarily calm. Compared to the demonstrations that have taken place in other countries, our police determination is, frankly, enviable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U114	Ladies and gentlemen, the story now is that it is 1:57 and it is now 30 seconds. Given that there are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to answer, it is obvious that we cannot take any more questions. Thank you to the Prime Minister, thank you to the ministers for taking part in Question Time and to all colleagues for asking. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U115	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 4th working week session of our 7th plenary session on Wednesday. Before going to the agenda, inquiries and drafts may be submitted. First, please, Jaak Juske.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, One very shameful thing happened last year: the government led by the Reform Party and the Centre Party reduced the budget for children's recreational education and activities by EUR 4 million, started budget cuts at the expense of children. Today is the new year, and the effects are also in hand, and so we are asking the Socialist Minister for Education and Science, Mrs Kersna, where we want to know how much less children have been engaged in recreational activities and education this year than last year, when many interest schools and sports clubs have had to raise the participation fee in order to survive at this difficult time, i.e. how this very embarrassing budget cut has affected the activities and education of our children and young people. The inquiry has been transmitted by electronic means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U117	Thank you. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 23 members of the Riigikogu, who are from the EKRE Group, the Isamaa Group and the Socialist Group, I have the honour to submit an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research for a regulation aimed at changing the meaning of the final exams with the uniform tasks of basic school so that the result of the exam does not affect the completion of basic school. And I comment so much that to anyone who has ever been involved in teaching, at any level, including me, it is relatively hopeless to make it clear or convincing to make it clear that lowering demands does not reduce the motivation of learning and therefore the quality of teaching. That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U119	Now please, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U120	I have a question on behalf of the Isamaa Group to the Minister for Social Protection. We have indeed been hit by several crises at once. However, there are crises that signal their arrival proactively, shout when they come, but when they arrive, everyone else will bury them. Somehow the news that Estonia's population has shrunk has been quietly missed in a year. The high mortality rate and the birth rate that remained at the same level in recent years resulted in a negative natural breeze. In response to this, the balance of migration is once again positive. While in the past a positive balance on migration has helped to increase population numbers, this was not enough last year and the number of inhabitants fell. A few years ago, the term "demographic downward spiral" began to sound loud in the political corridors, which represents a reduction in the number of women of childbearing age. This means that the number of children born will decrease and it will give a bad outlook for the future. A few years ago, we were on the verge of a so-called spiral, today's statistics are very negative in this respect. A year ago, the problem committee on the population crisis was closed and the [office] seat of the Minister of Population was also eliminated. Personally, I am in favour of the responsibility for the field being really one, and this is the Ministry of Social Affairs, but the assumption that the Ministry of Social Affairs is really dealing with this issue. While Tanel Kiik is struggling with the corona crisis, Signe Riisalo, who was also a member of the problem committee on the population crisis, would like to ask what he intends to do about population issues. Time here does not tick, but flies, and the place of concern is no more or less than the basic provision of the Constitution: the preservation of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U121	Stomach-fashioned. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted three inquiries and the Bureau will process them in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Now we're conducting a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U122	76 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U123	Let's go to today's agenda. Today's first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Oh, I can't go, first there's a procedure. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U124	Yes, thank you! I have a question about the second item on today's agenda, which concerns the review of the Minister for Education and Research, or the political statement. On Monday, we had a discussion about the agenda and we proposed that the Bureau discuss and allow members of the Riigikogu to submit two questions during the discussion of this agenda item. The Rules of Procedure Act allows the Bureau to agree with the Minister on this format and the number of questions in this case is not limited to one. My question is, did the board discuss it? Were there negotiations with the Minister, and how are we going to deal with it today? Do we have two questions or one question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U125	Thank you. Yes, the Bureau discussed this at yesterday's Bureau meeting, and we also asked the Registry to give us a more detailed overview of how these matters have been dealt with so far. First of all, I will say right away that we have stuck to this view that one question remains. We followed the general rule of § 155 (4) of the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu, which says that there is one oral question to the officials who are present. Indeed, it is true that it is possible to increase these issues in agreement with the Minister. But here we have taken into account what has been the practice so far, and the practice so far has been practically unprecedented always such that either there are no questions at all or there is one question. In addition, we also considered the fact that when it was agreed in the course of the discussions on "Estonia 2035" that the Riigikogu would receive every year a political overview of the affairs of its field from each minister, we have them now, I don't know, four-five: the European Union and justice policy and sport and culture and foreign policy, now there will be much more. Given how much volume this adds to our agenda, we found it reasonable to continue with the practice of this one issue. So that was our considerations. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please again!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U126	Unlike the board, I do not worry about the lack of time for the Riigikogu to be overloaded. I sense today that we have little work here and that the executive power is overburdened, can't handle its own business. But that's it. The Rules of Procedure Act allows an agreement to be reached with the Minister. Did I get it right that you did not contact the Minister, and the Bureau decided on its own that it was based on this decision, and you did not discuss two questions with the Minister at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U127	Not this time. There was a debate with the Minister on the number of issues at the very first stage when the agenda items were agreed, but this time we did not come back to it. We found that this is actually our question of self-regulation, whether we are sticking to what has been agreed, or whether we are giving ambassadors the opportunity of two questions. This time, perhaps this week, we did not have any further contact with the Minister on this issue. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U128	Thank you. It is a pity that the members of the Riigikogu cannot participate in the negotiations, but only the representatives of the political groups. We can formally discuss these strategic documents in this Chamber, of course. Parliament could, in my opinion, be a more substantive body. It's too bad that's the case. But then I want to protest procedurally that the board decided that it would remain on the verbatim. And I would also like to give you a suggestion and encourage you: straighten your backs out and stand up for the rights of members of the Riigikogu on the board!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U129	Thank you. That suggestion, yes, I take it with my back even straighter. Yeah, but I wouldn't worry about excluding Parliament. Firstly, the fact that we are going to have much more issues in this Chamber than before is, I think, certainly a step in the direction of increasing Parliament's role. Secondly, it is now possible to give more attention to these issues in the Commission, whose working arrangements are very freely up to the Commission itself. So no, I do not think that we are going in the wrong direction here in increasing the parliamentary role. And when it comes to making speeches, or negotiating, here our previous composition has given us a very clear frame. In this format, it is indeed only possible for a representative of a group to speak. This board has no discretion. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U130	Thank you, good vice chairman. I ask that if all ministers have the opportunity to introduce what they are planning to do this year, such strategic sectoral plans, will they have the opportunity in autumn to say why they could not do anything again. We do not know what kind of crisis we have or what kind of situation we have, but they should also have [opportunity]. Won't we have enough of these working weeks, that's my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U131	I don't know what autumn brings. But we are able to hold extraordinary sessions all summer, we are able to hold extraordinary sessions during Christmas, we are even able to hold extraordinary sessions or additional sessions from Thursday afternoon on Friday-Saturday, depending on whether we have session time or not. So I'm not afraid of it. And, of course, it is always possible for the Minister, in agreement with the Bureau, to come here with a political statement. We've been using this format a lot lately. And we'll be able to make inquiries. I see we've run out of procedures. Thank you very much. We will move on to our first item on today's agenda. 475 is the bill, third reading. The lead committee has proposed a final vote, but negotiations can be opened before then. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. In that case, I shall vote on... initiated by the Government of the Republic. Ow! Let's make a call. I'm sorry! [[It's a saalikutsung.]] (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U132	The draft law was supported by 75 ambassadors, one against, no abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U133	Let's go to the second item today. The Minister for Education and Research in 2022 overview of strategic developments in the field. The rapporteur is Ms Liina Kersna, Minister for Education and Science. I will also introduce you to the procedure. First of all, the Minister's report is 30 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu will then be able to ask one oral question. This will be followed by negotiations with representatives of the political groups. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U134	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U135	Let's keep the hall quiet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U136	Last year, the Government of the Republic approved four development plans for the Ministry of Education and Research. They are based directly on the Estonian state's long-term strategy "Estonia 2035," which will guide our country's decisions for the next 13 years, as a basis for planning euro grants and drawing up the state budget. I am honoured to be the first minister to the Riigikogu to give you an overview of the strategic developments in the field. The goal of "Estonia 2035" is a smart, active and healthy Estonian person. The development plan for the field of education 2021 to 2035 sets the objective that Estonian people have knowledge, skills and attitudes that enable them to exercise themselves in personal life, work and society. In order to achieve this objective, we must ensure that learning opportunities are selective and accessible and that the education system allows for smooth movement between levels of education and members. We must also ensure that there are competent and motivated teachers and school leaders in Estonia, a diverse learning environment and learning from the learner. We must bear in mind that learning opportunities meet the development needs of society and the labour market. For the last two years, the whole world has had to cope with a global corona virus pandemic that has had both negative and positive consequences for our education system. Last spring, Harju and Ida-Virumaa were 10/11. Class 1 students 15 weeks, or 75 days of study distance study, and grade 5 and 8 children 13 weeks, or 65 days of study. All over Estonia were the smallest, that is, 1/4. Class 1 children [Distance studies] totaled seven weeks, i.e. 35 study days and 9 graders for nine weeks. Distance learning has created learning gaps and constantly changing circumstances and uncertainty have also affected the mental health of young people. Analysis by the United Nations, the World Bank, the European Commission and UNESCO will assess that there have been significant learning gaps due to school closure and distance learning, as distance learning is less effective than contact learning. This is also evidenced, for example, by the results of our comprehensive school finals. For all three exams, the average score was lower in 2021 than in 2016/2019. the annual average. Researchers and experts estimate that learning gaps have a cumulative character. The decline is increasing in the following years of study. Learning motivation decreases, leading to early school leaving, which in turn leads to social costs and reduces people's success in the labour market. Based on previous studies, the OECD has assessed that the expected life-cycle average income of students affected by school closure and distance learning is 3% lower than would have been without a pandemic. For countries, this could mean an average of 1.5% lower annual GDP over the rest of the century. During this academic year, we have made a lot of efforts to avoid all-Estonian outright distance learning. Thanks to the rapid testing in schools since November, we were able to keep schools largely open during the last delta strain wave. On the basis of feedback from schools, students and parents, we now know that this has been the right approach. In order to level out the educational gaps, school holders have received a total of EUR 17 million to provide students with additional support, depending on their needs, whether individual consultations, training in smaller groups, extra hours or courses. With the extra money, there has been an opportunity to hire assistant teachers. Schools can invite students to help with the help of assistant teachers and teachers through a substitute teacher program. We have allocated a total of half a million euros to this last year and this year. In total, schools have already needed support for these programmes for more than 12,500 hours. This year we added further education to the public training order, i.e. training courses offered free of charge by the state in order to prepare teaching aids that could prevent and level out the educational gaps of pupils in general education schools. For graduates, we ordered training courses in test subjects from universities. Last spring almost 7,500 graduates took part and these courses received very good feedback. By this spring we have also ordered online courses in preparation for final exams from Tallinn University, Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu for half a million euros. Compared to last year, we significantly expanded the range of courses, for example in chemistry and physics. In total, we have ordered 11 preparatory online courses from universities, which are about to begin. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We know from studies and feedback from teachers that long-term distance learning last spring had a negative impact on student motivation. In spring, we supported 504 learning-interest camps with EUR 7.3 million, with more than 63000 children from all over Estonia. Mental health issues in general need to be addressed intensively in the context of a pandemic. In last year's school satisfaction polls, almost half of the elevenths said that they were often or always sick of everything. According to the same study, 26% of teachers often or always experienced stress. Only a third of the teachers said that you rarely or never experienced stress. The number of juvenile suicides that doubled during the Coronary Apandemia is particularly worrying. What have we been able to do? In the spring of last year, in cooperation with the School Psychologists' Association, we opened a free helpline of 1226 to help students, educators and parents. Each week, online seminars will take place "From Distance to Smarter" where teachers and school leaders will receive practical recommendations both to make teaching more effective and to support students' mental health. In addition, we have provided first-aid mental health training for youth workers. We ordered a series of mental health lectures from the Association of Estonian Folk Universities and the Minutes of Silence for parents to increase parents' awareness and competence in supporting children's mental health and learning during the crisis and post-crisis period. In total, more than 100 training courses have taken place and web seminars have been completed. The training was highly valued, which is why we are planning to continue. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Over the past two years, stakeholders in education have been required to adapt quickly, to acquire new skills, to cope flexibly with rapidly changing circumstances. This crisis has also been a kind of acceleration of development in order to test flexible learning and assessment methods, to focus on the student and to transform the study work into a student-driven approach, as foreseen by the educational development plan. However, our most important goal in the near future is to come out of the corona crisis as safely as possible and to take all the important lessons from this crisis. The focus continues to be on the quality of education and the well-being of the learner, because a child who is stressed or frightened cannot learn according to his or her abilities. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The intelligent person named as the goal of the "Estonia 2035" development strategy is curious, creative and entrepreneurial, wants to learn and is ready to change the nature of the work. The education sector needs teachers who are willing to work towards this goal. According to OSKA, Estonia needs to replace around 380 teachers of general education schools per year because of age. The situation with science subjects and mathematics teachers is particularly critical in schools. One in five mathematics, chemistry, geography and biology teachers are at least 60 years old and one in four physics teachers are at that age. We cannot offer modern learning in schools if we do not have enough qualified and motivated teachers at school. In 2020, we discussed the topic of teacher follow-up in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu as an important national issue. We have brought together the proposals of the Committee on Culture and the results of a broad-based working group in the follow-up action plan for teachers, which will frame all activities in this area until 2026. The action plan was based on two major problems: not enough new qualified teachers were added and too many teachers were quitting or were planning to leave. The action plan envisages improving the quality of school management, more flexible qualifications for teachers, reviewing the workload of school staff, supporting educators throughout their careers and improving the image of the teaching profession. Our goal is that in 2026 all schools have managers with top management competences, and all schools are learning organisations. Changing the recruitment system for school leaders is also an important issue. To this end, we have started discussions with representatives of the school leaders' association and universities, including other related parties. We are certainly also talking here about the need to increase the competitiveness of the salary of the head of school as a top manager. Support for a starting teacher is also an important issue. Estonian education statistics show that in the last ten years, 74% of teachers who started in general education schools worked at school during the following academic year, and in the fifth year, only one other teacher who started in school continued in office. We want to increase the differentiation component of teachers' salaries from 17.1% to at least 20% of the education allowance for schoolchildren. This target will require an additional EUR 12 million to the state budget. This would make it possible, for example, to compensate for the lower hours spent by the starting teacher in order to get into school life during the first years of his work, and also to reward the mentor who supports the starting teacher. It would also provide the school manager with more flexible opportunities to support the teachers' career model. We are currently in a situation where more and more of the starting teachers do not meet the qualifications requirements. They need to be given flexible opportunities to find teachers' training in addition to working, or to develop competence to apply for a teaching profession. The aim is to create a high-quality model of initial and continuing training for teachers and support professionals, which takes better account of the need to learn alongside work and family life. Together with the University of Tallinn and the University of Tartu, we are setting up a programme of the Academy of Teachers, which aims to support the subsequent growth of teachers and support specialists by providing flexible initial and refresher training, to ensure the secondary growth of teaching staff and to develop high-level educational research. We would like all unskilled teachers to be supported in choosing a study path and acquiring an occupation. There is also a need for continuous support and further training for all teachers. We have signed agreements with both the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn to help universities create 141 additional teaching places in teacher training disciplines in the following academic year, with additional funding. In total, we want to create at least 550 new teachers' training places in 2022 to 2025. The pay of the Estonian teacher compared to purchasing power is the second in the OECD's European countries. The minimum wage for teachers rose from 1 January 2002 to 1412 euros, or 7.3%. The total wage increase was 30 million euros. In the first year, the average salary of Estonian teachers is 1653 euros, which is now comparable to the average monthly wage in Estonia. But the goal is to reach an average wage of 2336 euros by 2025, which is estimated to be 120% of the average gross wage in Estonia. This will require EUR 63.2 million to be added to the state budget next year, and EUR 125.2 million in 2024. A total of EUR 365,1 million will be needed for this in three years. The follow-up action plan for teachers is a concrete and clear work programme, the activities of which we have already started and we will continue to have children and young people in schools and kindergartens to teach and support sufficient numbers of qualified and motivated teachers in the future. School leaders should be seen as top managers in the public sector and teachers as top specialists. Their remuneration must correspond to that. The future of our country depends very much on how we value educators. The Committee on Culture has consensually assessed the importance of investing teachers' salaries. I continue to count on the support of the political parties of the Riigikogu on this subject. Honourable listeners! On the International Youth Day, the government approved the Youth Development Plan 2021-2035, which sets the goal that the development opportunities, security and solid support offered to young people will create Estonia, which young people want to move forward. To this end, young people, their solutions and ideas need to be taken into account, to discover and develop the talents and strengths of young people, and to support the entrepreneurship and creativity of young people. It is also necessary to create prerequisites for young people's confidence in the state, to listen to young people at all levels of government, and to empower young people's active citizenship. We have developed a concept for the development of talent, and the final line is to draw up an action plan for the observation of talent and the development of talent, which will provide the basis for a comprehensive system to support talented learners of all ages. The current view of the awareness and development of talented students has remained too narrowly central to Olympiads and in-depth courses, often ignoring less competitive and younger children. Here you must remember: every child is talented. Anne needs to be discovered and developed. In autumn last year, a two-year project began, creating a framework for closer integration of youth work, education of interest and activities of interest with general and vocational education. Our aim is to make the education system more flexible and student-centred so that the skills and knowledge acquired in recreational education can also be taken into account in formal education. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The "Estonia 2035" development strategy says that all social groups must have equal opportunities. The aim of the Estonian Language Development Plan 2021 to 2035 is to ensure the vitality and functioning of the Estonian language as the first language in every area of life in Estonia. In addition, the development plan says that by 2035 mostly education in Estonian has passed, i.e.: teaching in schools and kindergartens funded by the state and local authorities takes place in Estonian. Education in Estonian guarantees everyone an equal opportunity to participate in social and professional life and to continue their studies at the next level of education. Good listeners! All young people studying in our primary schools must be able to continue at the next level of education without hindrance. During this academic year, a little more than 21000 students, or almost 16% of all primary school graduates, complete basic education in Russian. In Estonia there are 20 comprehensive schools with a purely Russian language of instruction and 37 language immersion schools. As the second language of Estonian, the results of the comprehensive school final exams were lower last spring than in the previous three years. In 2021 the average score was 64.7%, before the average score was 70%. The results of language immersion classes and language exams are nearly 20% higher than those of Russian students in schools, remaining 90% of the border countries. So the immersion works. Last year, an action plan for education in Estonian was completed, which is marked because in the past, the necessary steps in this area have not been described in such detail. The action plan was born in cooperation with the representatives of kindergartens, schools and universities and umbrella organisations, who are in contact with Estonian and other native language children and young people in their daily work and teach in Estonian. Educational tools and methodologies should be developed and teachers trained, including the development of the skills of existing teachers for teaching pupils of different ages, with different cultural and educational backgrounds. The additional requirement for teachers of Estonian as a second language is 26 teachers per year orientingly during the 2022-2028 period. If we have teachers at school today who cannot speak Estonian, we cannot expect them to be able to provide education in Estonian. At the end of last year, the Language Board mapped the training needs of existing Estonian language teachers. The needs of pre-school children's institutions, general education as well as of the education staff of hobbies were assessed. And the result? In total, it is estimated that 2800.3100 educators are required for language training. Their language level is not sufficient. The main focus of the action plan is on training competent teachers. In order to alleviate the shortage of teachers in a multilingual school, we already allocated money to the University of Tartu Narva College this year to create 28 additional places for admission to the next academic year. There are currently around 10,000 children in kindergartens with a Russian language, or 14% of children in kindergartens. In total, there are 97 Russian language kindergartens in Estonia during this academic year. Today we have 152 additional Estonian-language teachers in the Russian kindergartens in 60 kindergartens. Starting in the year, 3.67 million euros have been allocated to early childhood education and in schools where there are already 40 additional teachers in Estonian today, 1.43 million euros. I'm sure we want to expand the "+1 teacher" program. We have also expanded the language immersion programme. According to the Estonian Education Information System, there were more than 3700 children in the language immersion of kindergarten, and more than 8000 children in primary school. We support the language immersion programme, including the education of children of new immigrants in schools with EUR 2 million. The number of students with different mother tongues from Estonian has increased significantly in schools with Estonian language of instruction in the last five years. This year, the state gave almost half a million euros to 23 comprehensive schools with Estonian language of instruction to support further education in Estonian for middle school students with other mother tongues. All comprehensive schools with at least 10% of students in other languages received support. For every student in need of additional support in learning Estonian, we have allocated 330 euros so that schools can offer a faster adaptation program to cope with Estonian-language learning. With the support, support for the Estonian language can be offered to nearly 1500 students and we also want to expand this programme. Narva Estonian Gymnasium was managed by the Ministry of Education and Research. The transfer of the school to the state is an important step towards the establishment of the Estonian-language educational campus in Narva, where in a few years' time there will be an opportunity to study in Estonian from kindergarten to the end of the upper secondary school. The state invests 30 million euros in the circa educational campus with a modern learning environment. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We launched an action plan for education in Estonian to give everyone an equal opportunity to participate in social and professional life and to continue their studies at the next level of education. We have already developed and are planning to continue to allocate the necessary funding to kindergartens and schools, which will enable training in Estonian to be organised, ensuring high-quality education. We are working to ensure that additional teachers with appropriate qualifications reach educational institutions. Good listeners! The "Estonia 2035" development strategy also aims to create favourable conditions for business R &amp; D and innovation. Researchers and businesses cooperate with each other. Our Estonian development plan for research and development, innovation and entrepreneurship aims to increase the well-being and economic productivity of Estonian society. We are essentially faced with an extremely large and responsible task, because we need to ensure long-term and consistent productivity growth through investment in a system of scientific development. This means not only applying research results to the benefit of the economy, but also increasing the effectiveness of science and shaping strategic research trends that meet society's development needs. Funding for science and higher education is critical. Research funding must remain at 1% of gross domestic product. Compared to last year, more than €40 million was added to support R &amp; D and innovation this year. The total amount of R &amp; D expenditure in the state budget in 2022 is €323.7 million. It is important to design the R &amp; D system so that private R &amp; D investment also grows rapidly. This will allow for an increase in the number of researchers and engineers in the business sector at least three times. The procedure of the Riigikogu is currently the reform of doctoral studies, which provides the majority of doctoral students with a junior researcher's post or [opportunity] to conclude a contract of employment in a non-university institution in the field related to their doctoral thesis. The transition to the new concept of doctoral studies will take place gradually until 2026. I hope that this bill will also receive support from the Riigikogu. Unlike research funding, funding for higher education has remained in the way of time over the years. Despite the fact that higher education expenditure has increased by 22.4% compared to 2012, to compensate for paid places allocated to higher education institutions, the share of expenditure in GDP has fallen from 1.4% to 1%. The low growth in higher education operating support has not enabled higher education institutions to raise the pay of teaching staff in the same way as the overall wage growth in the country. Mostly, fresh Master's degree graduates receive significantly higher salaries than lecturers in the same field, including doctorate lecturers. For example, in the ICT field, according to data from last year, the pay gap is nearly 700 euros to the detriment of teachers. This year, higher education institutions received an additional EUR 5 million operating grant to ensure that the pay gap between university teachers and teachers in general education schools does not increase. But, of course, that's not enough. In the last five years, the growth in operating support for higher education has been in the order of 2 to 5% per year. This has been a marginal increase compared to both the Estonian economy and wage growth. In concluding new administrative contracts, universities have made it a condition to increase the operating grant for higher education by 15% each year, i.e. an increase in operating aid of some EUR 25 million next year. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In a situation where the state must seek solutions to train teachers, engineers and nurses adequately, how to ensure the widest possible diversity of higher education in Estonian and academic post-growth, the question of the sustainability of the financing model of our higher education system is justified. How many free higher education are we able to pay today? How many times can a person decide on his choice of specialty free of charge? Consideration should also be given to including private money in higher education, but it is certainly important to maintain the possibility of free learning at the full time of the first higher education. Funding for higher education must become a priority theme across political parties. Good listeners! In summary, the main activities of the Ministry of Education and Research in the near future are primarily aimed at ensuring the exit of the global corona virus from the pandemic, ensuring the follow-up of teachers and improving the quality of the management of educational institutions, implementing the Estonian-language education action plan and financing higher education. These are, in my opinion, the most important steps so that we can talk about the intelligent, active, creative and entrepreneurial Estonian person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U137	Thank you very much. Now the questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There were a number of examples in your review of how the impact of pandemic times on the quality of teaching and the opportunities to participate in it has been mitigated by additional funding. The impressive number is 17 million, which has been given to schoolkeepers to level out learning gaps, and this seems at first sight to be a very large sum. Does the Ministry have feedback from schoolteachers, students and also analytical information on whether or not this money is sufficient and, of course, what is the effect of this funding on students' development?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U139	Thank you very much for a very good question. And I'm sorry that I was so freaking out, I was afraid I was running out of time, and I can't talk about science and higher education all of a sudden. But exactly two minutes left to spare. Yes, we started funding for support for learning gaps as early as last year when we found EUR 6 million from the Ministry of Education and Research's budget to deal with learning gaps right from the beginning of the academic year. Really, we've been asking for feedback from the schools. We did a study among school leaders on how this money has been used and whether they consider it sufficient to level out learning gaps. It must be acknowledged that the effectiveness of using this money has been highly appreciated. With this money, smaller groups have been made for those who are lagging behind in their studies to catch up with others. They've hired more assistant teachers. So yes, school feedback from our survey has been very positive. I'm assuming that once this funding ends... In fact, this year's money can also be used in 2023. We do not have any extra money for this, but the available money can also be used or distributed over the next year. But, as usual, in the field of education, there is actually a shortage of money, and if this money is taken out of the system at one point, it will certainly be felt that the funding is smaller. So, actually, yes, more than EUR 50 per child will receive a bounty thanks to the support for levelling out learning gaps. Almost 60 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U140	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U141	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much for your thorough review. I will continue on almost the same subject. The pandemic has put the school system in the face of very great challenges with this distance learning, and I understand that now, as you said, the universities have ordered helping courses, repetition courses, and for half a million you have also re-ordered them and appreciated them very well. Can you give their benefits more detail? And the other thing, I mean, once these pandemic situations are over and the distance learning is over, is there such a view that ordering such repetition courses from universities could continue during normal learning?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U142	Thank you very much for your question. Specifically, the effect of these courses on the individual's knowledge cannot be measured because, to do so, we should also know the initial level of this student, from where then the additional amount of knowledge will come from. It's difficult for us to analyze. But really, looking at how widespread the interest in these courses last year was, and similarly, when we did a feedback poll on how graduates were satisfied with these courses, this feedback was largely very positive. If last year we were able to do repetition courses for compulsory exams in particular, then this year we have expanded to basic school sample examinations, such as chemistry and physics, so that middle school chemistry and physics examiners can also attend courses and also at the end of secondary school there are courses in chemistry and physics. Estonian as a second language is also guaranteed for both comprehensive school and upper secondary school graduates. Last year, the Chancellor of Justice raised the issue of whether young people in other languages could take part in these courses. We are currently also negotiating with universities, certainly some of the courses can be translated into Russian so that Russian-speaking young people can also use these courses.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U143	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! We had a very warm meeting with the university leaders, the rectors in the group this morning. We had an enormous number of points of contact, and it was pleasant and heartwarming. However, there were also complaints about government operations over long years, and one such complaint was the issue of higher education operating support, which 10 years ago was 155 million, now 165 million. It's a pleasure to read, of course, that you're planning to raise it by 15% a year. But if earlier the annual increase was 1 million, and now you want to raise 24 times more in one year, or 24 million in a year, is it natural, is it reasonable, is it even possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U145	Thank you for your question. I'm glad to hear you met the Rectors. I'm meeting them on Friday to discuss how we're going to proceed with the administrative contracts. As far as funding for higher education is concerned, everyone has a reason to look at themselves here. Even while you were in government, 4.9% higher education operating grants were increased, it has to be acknowledged that this was over 8 million and quite significant compared to previous years. Prior to that, 2.8%, 3.1% were increased, while in 2018 2% were raised. I was really embarrassed when we did not get any extra money in the budget negotiations for higher education, and in order for universities to be able to invest anything in teaching staff's salaries, we put EUR 5 million in addition to funding higher education. I was embarrassed that the amount was so small. And then, when I looked at what's been going on in the past few years, that 5 million was 3.1%. Here you go, in the context of the last five years, this is a perfectly representative percentage! We could all be embarrassed about that. I introduced the issue of funding for higher education to the government recently, and I did sense a common understanding in the government that more money is needed for higher education, and we will certainly come back to this issue in the country's budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U146	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U147	Thank you, Minister, for this review. In fact, these ambitions and descriptions, either in the coalition or in the opposition, we'll probably all sign together. The question is really that let's not talk about priorities, but about the budget, about the amounts that should be fixed somewhere in the table. You have actually outlined the minimum target through this EUR 365 million in order to modernise the pay system. On the other side there is funding for higher education. We also know that we are constantly motivating cuts at national level, whether it is a state gymnasium model or a school close to home, a small rural school. My question to you now comes from this area, which concerns the world of money. How much additional resources is needed for this sector by 2035 and how much can be done to manage change within this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U148	Thank you. If we look at international comparison, then as a ratio to GDP, the Estonian state invests in the field of education in a very representative way, we are among the peaks in terms of the ratio to GDP of investors in education. But, as I said in my speech, for example, teachers' pay is the second in comparison with the OECD and European countries. What do we conclude from this? We conclude that education money is going somewhere else, not as salaries for teachers, where it could go. Let's talk about money. Yes, as teachers' salaries, we received an additional EUR 30 million. That's a lot of money, 30 million euros. But since last year's pay for teachers was not increased, before that, an additional zero euros was invested in teachers' salaries, this hole is just so much bigger that it will give us years to rise. Our direction in the field of education should certainly be to put more money into people's teaching staff, teachers, support specialists, and to invest less in concrete.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U149	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The priorities and all the words that accompany us here are very beautiful, but in real life I have serious concerns about our rural areas, about the young people in our rural areas. Namely, your ministry is offering grants to municipalities to close down the upper secondary school classes for smaller schools. This is a very bad plan. The people have chosen a local council, and if the council has decided to preserve the upper secondary school at the will of the people, it is sneaky to offer money to give up their upper secondary school. It is not just a question of Excel's table figures, but of priorities: whether we retreat or fight whether a young person living in a smaller place is as important to the state as a young person in the capital. Do you know that your supported closures mean for many young people in rural areas a day a 100-km school and home journey with buses and transfers or after moving to primary school boarding school? After all, the living environment in these rural areas will also be hit when the upper secondary school is closed. Good Minister, take on a positive program: support those smaller upper secondary schools and municipalities who hold them in spite of everything. We can't go back forever. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But the specific question is also the end: why do you still pay support for the closure of upper secondary school classes instead of supporting the preservation of schools with the same money?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U151	Thank you. Firstly, the state is already paying significantly more money to support rural schools today than to support city schools. Rural schools outside Tallinn and Tartu are financed with a coefficient for our taxpayer's money; they also receive more bounty today than the students of Tallinn and Tartu schools. This is precisely because in rural areas we want primary school to be very close to home, so that smaller children can go to school near home. As far as upper secondary schools are concerned, this is really support for those who have decided to do so. This is not an obligation today, it is support for those who have decided to do so. We have gymnasiums, upper secondary schools! With fewer than 20 students for the entire upper secondary school. We have upper secondary schools with 30 students for the whole upper secondary school. We see that less than 100 students in upper secondary school are on average able to offer nine optional courses, and we are talking about 100 students, not 20 or 30 students. At the same time, there are 18 optional courses in upper secondary schools with 300 and more students. We're doing a year-to-year survey of the students' satisfaction. You say that we should be guided by the well-being of young people. Yes, we must rely on the well-being of young people. Satisfaction with the school is significantly lower in upper secondary schools with fewer than 50 students, and the school's reputation is felt lower than in schools with more than 200 pupils. The students themselves value these schools not very well. These are research results, I'm not making them up, all right? Relations with teachers are also worse than with a higher number of students in school. These are students' own assessments of the school. What I'm saying is that this decision is a local decision. Those who want to clean up the school network, we support. The state itself is also paying rural schools with a coefficient of more money than it is paying to support schools in urban areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U152	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U153	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Yeah, for teachers' dog wages, but for youth chief Ulla Ilisson, you welded this $7,000 basic salary. It wasn't for long. But I don't understand. Explain now. Madis Somelar, head of study at the real school, has written this way: "As a teacher, it is very difficult for me to accept the message of the state that the graduate of the ninth grade needs nothing to know about the history of Estonia and the world, the cultural history of our people. [---] Especially strange is the situation where, when giving citizenship, we are based on the knowledge of the Estonian language, but we no longer consider the proficiency of the Estonian language to be of value at the least satisfactory level of our students. " At the same time, the school leaders say: " The exclusive importance of Estonian language and mathematics is bad for teaching in primary school. " I haven't taken a closer look at education, but what's going on here doesn't need a final exam? The head of high school school says it's stupid. The school leaders say that Estonian language like, damn it, prevents here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U154	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U155	Thank you. I am very pleased that you quoted this article and that you did so. First, to complete comprehensive school, all grades must be satisfactory, at least satisfactory, including in Estonian. So there is a plan somewhere where Estonian language learning is no longer valued or that a person who does not know enough Estonian language or mathematics can graduate from primary school is not true. Otherwise, and I hope you will not, because when I read some articles, I really get the feeling that we are talking about the reputation of a teacher here, but then we have such authoritative people, both in politics and in education, who depreciate teachers. Teachers have been teaching these children for nine years and, as a result of their teaching, have given their children grades, giving feedback. What you're saying is that this nine-year teaching doesn't mean anything, that it only means the result of one exam, that everything-all-all children have to pass the exam at least 50%, that it's the result we want from our education, not that for nine years in a row, children get a decent education and feedback about their learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U156	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U157	President-in-Office of the Council. Very honourable Minister! Thank you for this presentation. There are probably few people who are more aware of how difficult our past periods have been, especially in organising education. But here's my question. Knowing all the difficulties and challenges you have had to overcome, I believe you have been a very strong minister, determined. Thanks for that. What lessons do we learn from looking ahead? After all, there are opportunities in every crisis; there have certainly been perhaps more than usual of these bottlenecks, the foundations for innovation, the investment needs. And the money's always low, isn't it? Why don't you talk about what we can do better in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U158	Thank you. I touched it in my speech, but really, every crisis brings out the weaknesses of the system and gives you the opportunity to learn. And the corona crisis in the education system certainly showed us that it was possible to organise learning on a learner-centred basis that it would be possible to create personal studies and we could test it. I think three years ago no one knew or dared to think that one day real learning could take place only online. And we know today that for at least 20% of students, distance learning was significantly better than contact learning, they moved forward faster and more effectively in learning. And our question is now, as the educational development plan provides for, how we support these students, how we continue to offer them flexible learning paths, so that those who move faster can do so. I'll come back to the exams. Today's examination system clearly discriminates against those who could receive 200% or 250%. I can't! They can't show how strong they are. So we have a lot of room for improvement in the exam system. But yes, to answer your question in summary: certainly both the flexibility of the evaluation system and the flexibility of the learning system are the things that we have taken from this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U159	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. The title of your performance today is "... strategic developments" and it seems that this topic, which has already been touched on here by some colleagues and which you did not touch on in your presentation, i.e. the subject of exams and rather the thresholds for these exams, is, in your opinion, not a strategic development. I believe that, in the opinion of quite a number of colleagues, this is a very strategic choice, a very strategic development and a very important issue that we certainly would have expected in your in-depth presentation. But then you don't want to talk about uncomfortable subjects. This is also shown by how you go on fire when a question is asked on this subject. But I will also ask you a question on this subject. My concern is not all comprehensive school finals, but the Estonian language as a second language and this threshold, which is intended to be abolished there too. However, we set ourselves the goal that a graduate should be able to speak Estonian at least at B1 level, which is the threshold. How do you deal with this new idea, the new strategic development, the contradiction that there is no threshold for the exam, but you have to know B1 level?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U161	Thank you. In fact, the threshold for the second language of Estonian is 50%, but if you want to get a B1, it is 60%. So the B1 threshold is higher than the state exam, the graduation exam threshold. Despite the fact that this threshold of 50% has been around for many years, there are still very many young people who have not learned the Estonian language by the end of primary school. I wonder why. Is the threshold too low? Maybe we should set 100% for that threshold, so maybe everybody gets over that threshold. If you think the threshold will teach the student. No, the threshold doesn't teach the student, the student is taught by the teacher. Learning is a process and we need to measure the outcome of the process not at the end of the ninth grade, when the child has to leave the school system or comprehensive school, but we have to measure the learning results earlier. Why have there been no previous level papers in Russian-speaking schools in Estonian? Why not? Ask yourself who you have been in government. Why not? Only now did we do language level work in fourth and seventh grade in Russian-speaking schools and language immersion schools. And what did we see? Are you familiar with these records? Forty percent of fourth graders received the A1 level. The A1 level is the lowest and lowest level of the Estonian national language. 60% of children in the fourth grade did not achieve this level. Learning is a process. And if we measure the result at the end of this process, what do we do with this result? We need to measure this result over and over again. And we're gonna keep going. We have to measure in fourth grade, seventh grade, and finally ninth grade, we can be sure that they will pass this exam, be it the threshold of 50% or 60%. To get a B1 level, you need to pass 60% of the exam. Already in 2020, the goal was that this B1 level at the end of primary school should be 90% of graduates. Not achieved. It's 75%. Maybe there's a question about the threshold. Let's think about it. I don't think it's a question of threshold. The question is that we have not taught enough Estonian in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U162	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'll come to another subject, let's just leave this exam alone, so I guess we can discuss it again. The faction of Isamaa also had a meeting with rectors of universities of applied sciences, and their [telling] became quite a concern. You also dealt with research funding in your report and, indeed, at present this funding is 1% guaranteed and I think it is very, very important. But the concern of the rectors of the university of higher education, just the rectors of the university of applied sciences, was that they couldn't get access to that money. It should, in principle, be changed; it cannot be put together with our public universities and research institutions. What are your plans? Open it, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U164	Thank you very much. I, too, have spoken to the rectors of the universities of applied sciences on this subject several times, and we are really trying to find solutions so that more applied universities can be used for applied research in particular. They're actually being used today. But what we know is that a large part of the funding for science goes precisely for applied research to companies, and for businesses to see professional higher education as a potential, not just universities, we are working. I think it's very right, it's very competent, and it could be used more. In their case, however, these applied research is primarily carried out on the basis of students' research. They do not have so much of their own research community, but they will certainly be able to carry out very high quality applied research to help businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U165	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U166	Thank you. Under your command is the Estonian Research Council, which employs 62 people. Its predecessor, the Estonian Research Fund, had only three, but that's why. Last year more than 400 applications were submitted for grants for studies, more than 40 received. You would think that grants would be allocated on the basis of the feasibility, content and quality of this research, and that would be the case. But take a finger, there's another criterion, and that's the principle of gender equality. So it turns out that our research development and research are not assessed by content and quality, but rather by some other strange criteria that actually draw down this quality quite clearly, because they prefer some other criteria. Do you consider this to be a normal situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U167	Thank you. As you said, this is one of the criteria, and certainly in the context of the criteria, we cannot say that one of them, this gender equality, is the most important criterion. I guess they're gonna be assessed in a complex way. But we have a problem with too few women in science, and it has also been raised as an important problem at European Union level. This Friday, for example, is such an international day as "Women in Science" to highlight women in science. In this sense, I think it is normal that there is also one criterion for gender equality.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U168	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U169	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! I don't understand why there should be women in science equal to men. What purpose could that have in itself? But you are talking about priorities here. Should we perhaps prioritise as a state those areas that we always have little money to finance, because today we are figuratively in a situation where law is not taught only at Tallinn Ballet School? At the same time, lecturers complain that students' functional language skills leave something to be desired. And all these lowering thresholds. Aren't we going to be in such a situation that our middle school graduates are at the language level of this "12 chairs" hero, Ellotška, is [only] 30 words in use? So, what are the priorities for the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U170	Thank you. Firstly, women and men do not have to be equal in science; they simply have to have equal opportunities. Women simply have fewer opportunities, given that women are at home with children when they have reached or have the opportunity to reach the most productive period in science. This is actually a serious problem for young women scientists and a solution is being sought so that family and researcher lives can be better reconciled. We know that, I believe you also know that men and women are equally intelligent. But maybe you think men are more intelligent. In fact, we still know they're equally intelligent, intelligence is personal, it doesn't go by the sexes. In any case, we have too few women in science, there should be more, and we need to find ways to get them there. But I agree with you that science money should certainly also be directed according to what priority areas in society are, for example, now in the green turn. We need to look at how to do this as science-based as possible, what technologies to use. This is important and our development plans also say that both science and education must be in line with society's needs. And speaking of higher education, of course, it is not true that only ballet school does not teach justice. The University of Tartu is responsible for the area of law, but legal training is currently provided outside its area of responsibility by the University of Tallinn and, according to my knowledge, they do so at virtually zero cost, because most of this study is subject to a fee. So when we look at the big picture, actually, most universities teach within the limits of their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U171	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U172	Thank you. Madam Minister! People are different and children are different. My question concerns what is an ever-present issue of special educational needs. I also remember from my own time how these solutions were there in Soviet times, 40 to 50 years ago. And now that you're in school, I'm getting feedback on how it is today. It is like continuing to be such a real problematic topic. What are the plans in this regard? It is right and humane that everyone is given the same opportunities as possible for education. On the other hand, it is quite a burden on schools and it is quite a burden on staff. And the third thing is special schools or schools with special educational needs [children's], which are scattered all over Estonia, often also in rural areas. Is it also meant to bring these schools, perhaps, to the county centres for example, closer to more active communication with people? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How do you intend to solve this big and very important issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U173	Thank you very much. This is really a very important subject and affects a lot of people. What have we done, and what can we do? We have significantly increased the order of support specialists' training for several years already. More and more support professionals should come to schools. We also extended teacher start-up support to support specialists. This means that when a young or start-up support specialist goes to work in the rural area, he or she, like teachers, receives initial support and since starting support was also paid to support specialists, we can see that 400 support specialists have reached more schools. Certainly today's teachers also need further training on how to deal with children with different special needs. Such trainings are also provided and are extremely important because teachers themselves appreciate that their knowledge and skills are not sufficient to cope well with all children. Only 25% of teachers say that they can differentiate learning in class classes, for example. So what we can do is have more support staff in schools and existing teachers are more aware of how to support these children. You pointed out that schools for children with special needs could be brought from rural areas to centres. Wherever possible, I think that makes sense. Just as with special care, we try to [move] or move towards having family homes for special care come to the centers. I think this is the right way. We have very good schools for children with special needs, which are modern learning environments, which do excellent work, but are already built away from the centres. And they're actually happy with their location, so you have to look at it well in school. But basically, that schools for children with special needs need to be, that's for sure. And second, if possible, of course they could be in the centers. Like Võru Järve School, a great example.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U174	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You are very excited to talk about the big schools here and the big cities from a point of view. And I imagine everything on your papers looks very pretty. But real life is completely different. In real life, it doesn't matter how many students are in class or what one satisfaction study says. For example, Avinurme Gymnasium is planned to close and Mustvee School. The nearest schools are located, for example, in Jõgeva, where there are 49 kilometres of Avinurme and 39 kilometres of Mustvee, or in Rakvere, where there are 54 kilometres of Avinurme and 74 kilometres of Mustvee, or in Tartu, where there are 77 kilometres of Avinurme and 59 kilometres of Mustvee. This means that in view of transport, or bus traffic, this child must rise between five and six in the morning to get on the bus and be able to get to school on time. It's the same when he comes home. He'll be home late at night. Now explain to me how such planning means the interests of the child. How is the child's interests protected here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U176	Thank you. Indeed, today, for example, 54% of students who could go to Avinurme Gymnasium do not go to that school, they go somewhere else. Half of them stay at Avinurme High School. Avinurme Upper Secondary School has 24 students. And, of course, it's a problem when the next school is very far away. That's when we have to think about how to organise it as child-centred as possible. In principle, we could also take these 24 children to school in the mornings and to [home] in the evenings, back and forth [drive], which would be significantly cheaper than maintaining upper secondary school. And today, for these local governments, state money is not enough to support these upper secondary schools. They already pay significantly more today than this study that these upper secondary schools there hold so small student numbers. If they are able to do so, it is the choice of where the community's money goes: is it going, for example, to these same support specialists in primary school or is it going to teach 24 children in upper secondary school? This is the place of choice. But certainly, with such solutions, we must take into account that these children are provided with fast and convenient transport, or a student home. This is certainly extremely important for such reforms. They need to be done if they have not yet been made in the region. Of course, we do not expect, no one expects a child to travel 60 kilometres a day or 120 kilometres a day, for example. Of course we don't expect that. But I am surprised that this issue is absolutely not raised in the case of vocational education. Those kids who go to vocational schools after junior high aren't you worried about them? They're all going to the county centers. Everyone goes away from their homes to the county centers of vocational schools. How do they do it? They can, but we need to create conditions. This requires the creation of grants for both transport and free overnight accommodation, student housing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U177	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U178	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I am very pleased that scientific funding has increased very significantly this year. My question is that research, as we know, is between two different development plans, is the education development plan and is TAIE. And TAIE has presented us here to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications and will probably also report on this matter. But I ask how you believe that cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and with other ministries has now started in planning research and development, because cooperation is certainly the key to its success.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U179	Thank you. It has been a very interesting experience for me that really in the field of science we do things together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Officials have meetings together, and ministerial meetings are also together. We have a committee on research policy and a committee on innovation, and the whole time I have been a minister, there have been joint meetings which, according to the subject, are chaired either by the Minister for Education and Science or by the Minister for Enterprise. Just the day before yesterday, we had a joint meeting between the Commission on Research Policy and the Committee on Innovation. We really are discussing these topics together with scientists and entrepreneurs, and this is so important when we are inside it, because the instinct of the Ministry of Business and Economic Affairs and Communications is that a large part of the research money should go to innovation and applied research. The instinct understood by the Ministry of Education and Research is that we must support universities, research institutions and basic research. That is where we should find the balance so that one cannot suffer or the other cannot suffer, and these are really very, very exciting and well-argued discussions on how we can achieve this balance. Indeed, we work together on a daily basis at the level of officials and, of course, at the ministerial level.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U180	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! This topic is, as we hear, extremely broad, because there is a great deal about how to say, related topics. I would like to touch on everything at least a little bit, because there is one question. First of all, as far as primary school is concerned, of course we thank all the teachers and respect those who teach children throughout primary school, so that they reach the end of comprehensive school with positive grades, but I have talked to the teachers, and I have been a bit in this area myself. Everyone's in favour of taking the exams anyway. As a matter of urgency, as far as language learning is concerned, I am convinced that the language must be taught as young as possible, and that requires teachers. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And the last thing about the Rectors...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U182	Time, Riho!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U183	... then quickly say that the military school and the National Defence Academy have put down a system that graduates will remain...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U184	Time, Riho!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U185	...to this area of life. We should also find such solutions for other universities of applied sciences.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U186	Thank you. There was no question in itself, but I am still following the line and saying: I agree with you. The comprehensive school finals must remain and the comprehensive school finals must remain. It is not possible, even if this change goes through what the Ministry of Education and Research has now proposed, to complete comprehensive school without comprehensive school finals. All comprehensive school graduates must take comprehensive school finals, the result of which will be recorded on the certificate. And I really hope, also thinking about what the Youth Development Plan says, that we do not underestimate young people and do not think that all middle school graduates will go to basic school finals and write their names on the papers to get a 0% comprehensive school certificate. I just find it sad to hear this attitude about how much you humiliate the young people of Estonia. On the contrary, our young people are very ambitious, even saying that they are too ambitious in what they do at the cost of their mental health. It's just not an option that we now have the vast majority of the examiners going to 0% that they don't want to show you what they've been studying for nine years. But there's one more thing I'm gonna say. Consider, for example, the way students and student associations view this discussion, that they are valued as if they were not interested in what the results of these statements are. Of course, they're very interested, but we should take these exams in the direction that these exams are taken into consideration when we get into upper secondary schools. As the professors of education at Postimees today say that the exam, as such, is not important for completing one exam or one level of education, but precisely for moving from there. You don't think these kids stay in basic education. We still have the vast majority of young people moving from primary education to either upper secondary school or vocational school. They want to learn, they want to get ahead in life.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U187	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U188	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Minister, First of all, let me ask you what my groupmates have asked for. They didn't get an answer on how much money next year comes in the field of education, they want numbers. But my question relates to talented children. One of your predecessors, our party's Minister for Education, was saying that talent is also a special necessity and, unfortunately, the current schools do not take this special need into account. And that's a serious problem. I fully agree that Estonian schoolchildren are very good and very ambitious, but if we measure everything with the same standard, not only those who do badly but also those who [are talented] will suffer. I want to hear about your solutions in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U189	Thank you. Firstly, how much money will be added to the education sector next year? I will certainly answer this question when we have concluded the budget negotiations, next year's budget negotiations. I could say the European Union's resources, but how much really next year will come in the area of education, unfortunately I cannot say right now. We are indeed in a situation where the awareness and development of children's talents has not been systematically addressed in our education system. There are schools, there are teachers who have dealt with it from the surface of enthusiasm and are very effective. And I have also been in discussions when I was not a minister where schools shared their practices, how they notice talent, and how they then support a talented child in this field. Riin Tamm is the head of the Youth and Gift Policy Department, who has come from the University of Tartu School of Science, and in cooperation with experts in the field, he is putting together a systematic plan to support the awareness and development of talented children in schools. At the exams, I think that's one of the key points, that we know today that if the magnitude of 10% of graduates were to receive a grade of 90 to 100%, or a grade of 5 on the mathematics exam for example, and we don't know if they could have gotten more than this exam would have been designed in such a way that this peak is kind of moving forward. And if this exam were designed to actually reveal the child's abilities and talents, then the upper secondary schools would also be able to use these exams more for entrance. Really, today's exam system sets the limit for talented people. Not to mention kids with special needs. For example, school psychologists are very concerned that we are forcing all children to cross this 50% limit. But if you get 49% of the exam, for example, you can't stop. Then it's 2nd grade. I don't think it's very child-centred.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U190	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U191	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. What is happening around comprehensive school finals is extremely regrettable. The previous Minister of Education raped this subject, every year there were different ideas, regrettably you continue to do so. I think that losing the threshold is definitely a step in the wrong direction. I hope this doesn't work, or if it does, the future will be changed. But my question is actually about upper secondary school education. You said that maintaining upper secondary schools is a local government choice. Well, that's not actually the case, because the state is setting up state secondary schools aside, and now the government is giving money as a one-off pleasure to those local governments that are ready to close their secondary schools. This is how we achieve an immensely systemless school network. Does the Ministry of Education have a comprehensive overview of the upper secondary school network or a development plan for the future what it should be like? And if so, when and where can I get acquainted with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U192	Thank you. I'm really preparing a school network review for the Government of the Republic right now. I think we should discuss this, just as we did before, when you were not in the Chamber, we talked about the fact that the education sector in itself, as a ratio of GDP, goes to a dignified part of the money in Estonia. But teachers and faculty receive very little of this money. We have to bet more on people and less on concrete. And there is certainly money on the educational network, because it is very expensive to maintain upper secondary school education, which is by far the most expensive level of education in general education. Compared to the first-to-six-grade level of education funding, rather than funding, but precisely the cost of the final level of primary school and upper secondary school, upper secondary school education is clearly very expensive. The final level of comprehensive school is also expensive and it is actually cheaper to keep it from first to sixth grade. Today, local authorities are making sure that they take a bounty from the first to the sixth grade and finance the final grade and upper secondary schools instead of spending the money, which is directed from the first to the sixth grade, for the benefit of these children and again for the benefit of support specialists, for example. While the development plans state that the local government is responsible for basic education, the state is increasingly taking responsibility for secondary education. This is the result of the creation of these state secondary schools. The state wrote in its development plans that the state would take on more responsibility in secondary education, and this was also created by state secondary schools in all counties, and there will be eight more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U193	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U194	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for this very thorough presentation and for looking into the future and for what we are doing today. We talk a lot about grades, we talk about thresholds and excellent results, about PISA tests, all this is very important. But my question to you, Madam Minister, I am sure you are laying the foundations for this in your actions: we want education, but do we also want education? How does this complex system of today, in all its links, which together must provide us with education, give these evolving personalities real education so that they can understand where they are, understand nature? Not as the young people who were recently quoted in one teaching, yes, they were schoolchildren, schoolchildren from a large city, an expensive school, who actually thought that the apple trees would bloom in November or December.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U195	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U196	I just want to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U197	But in a minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U198	I would like to ask what is most important. How does this system feel that we should base it on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U199	Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U200	I'm so sorry, old man thing!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U201	Thank you. That's very right. In fact, a modern approach to learning requires that students be able to integrate different disciplines so that they understand that what they learned in mathematics also affects physics or chemistry, or what they learned in natural science also affects other subjects so that the child develops a comprehensive understanding of the world around him. Today we often teach subjects as such silos, separate [things]. Yeah, there's a lot of examples here, but it's gonna be really hard for a kid to make connections. In addition to this, it is very important that learning is as practical as possible, that children then understand the links to real life when it is practical. So greater integration and greater [relationship] with real life and practice produce a better result.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U202	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U203	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. If I follow this completely aimless and irrational rape that is currently taking place in our educational landscape, I will be honest with you: I am terribly pleased that I have been educated in the Soviet Union. We had primary school exams, we had high school or high school matriculation exams, we had university entrance exams, we had twice a year final exams. We got a proper, systematic, demandingly controlled education. It's all broken up, it's not, and now you want the little left of it, the self-discipline that people are being asked to mature, to work, to acquire a work pattern, and with it to learn, just to dismantle. Are you the enemy of the Estonian people and their offspring, or are you simply disoriented?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U204	Thank you. I've gotten part of my education in Soviet times, too, and I remember how kids got their fingers on a board when they did something wrong. And, in my opinion, what also concerns the debate on the threshold is the question of whether we are teaching through fear. Are we teaching through fear, or are we raising the motivation to learn something, to get somewhere? I think that in 2022 we will no longer have to teach children through fear; we will not have to give children with tablets to their fingers. We do not have to say that everyone has to exceed exactly one certain threshold, although we really know that there are children who exceed 150% of this threshold and there are others who, for example, 49%. I fully understand and understand that your view of the world is in favour of us teaching children today the way we taught them in Soviet times. It's your right, and I'm glad you're happy about it. I think that the majority, especially those involved in education, do not think that we should be teaching in schools today in the same way as was taught in Soviet times.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U205	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U206	Good manager! Dear Minister, Now, as a boy at the Palamuse School, I'm gonna have to tell you that you're talking about "Spring" movie. It wasn't in Soviet times. This event took place much earlier. They didn't beat anybody against their fingers at the Palamuse School. But it's just an introduction. I am now asking if you have also discussed the possibility of branching state secondary schools. There's been talk of Avinurme and Mustvee, the same with Palamuse School. It makes sense that every municipality should have its own upper secondary school. At the moment, it happens that one state gymnasium may remain in each county at one point. Let me be clear: I honestly support the state gymnasium system, there is nothing wrong with it. But perhaps one solution during the transitional period would be that there would be branches in state secondary schools, and then perhaps on certain days children will really be brought to the state bus or car in that state secondary school, but in certain hours, as we have been educating for the last two years, teleworking is possible. What do you think about the branch business?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U207	Thank you. I wasn't talking about "Spring" movie, I was talking about personal experience. I think that your mind has a complete complexion. We have also discussed in some regions the creation of so-called pro-universities at state secondary schools. That is also the point, in the larger regions. But I say once again: it is not anyone's wish that in those areas where there really is a state gymnasium far away, I know that there are places where the nearest state gymnasium is 60 kilometres away, these children should travel so far back and forth on a daily basis. In these cases, more flexible solutions are needed, and this option you have proposed is an absolutely worth considering. Of course I think that's a good idea. Yes, I have said this, but I am also saying that I think that children from very remote areas who do not want to go to a boarding house that is perhaps not prepared for such a great degree of independence [should] offer more flexible solutions, for example as branches.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U208	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U209	Thank you, Mr President. While here Mart Helme praised the Soviet education system, I hope he is also proud that he was able to take the history exam of the Communist Party. Madam Secretary! I want to thank you for talking about the fact that teachers' average wage should reach 120% of the national average by 2025. However, of course, when the Socialist Government was in place last year, this objective has been postponed all the time. But what's more important is what you didn't talk about. You did not mention your first decision to start budget cuts at the expense of children's interest education when you were in government. You said in your speech that every child is talented and every child's talent needs to be developed. Your actions and words are divided, you take money away from educating talented children with one hand, and you say there should be more. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U210	I'm sorry! We've developed a procedure. We're about to get an answer to the question, but before the procedure. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U211	I'm just taking this opportunity that my name was mentioned...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U212	So that's the line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U213	... and I would tell citizen Juske that unlike him who acquired certain Soviet demagoguery techniques, I received a very good education. I got a really good education, I had great faculty at the university, and I learned like crazy. To come here and mock some sort of story about party history... By the way, the history of the Communist Party is history, and when you learn it with thought, it educates a lot. So you don't have to be bullshitting around here, trying to make Mart Helme look like a fool. Mart Helme isn't stupid, he's definitely much smarter than Jaak Juske. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U214	But it wasn't procedural. It was a line we're not open to right now. Please! The Minister can answer Juske's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U215	I may be making inappropriate jokes, but maybe we need to set a threshold, then we'll find out who's smarter. As far as recreational education is concerned, yesterday there was a thank-you event for young people, which also recognised those involved in recreational education, schools and youth centres. And I really liked how the head of Viljandi Art School, who received the award, pointed out what children have said about why they go to art school. If they assumed that the kids would say it's nice to draw here, and it's just fun to be here, then actually these answers came very serious. They said, for example, that here I feel safe, and it was precisely the same subject of talent that was pointed out that here I could deal with what I really like, and there were a number of such important mental health keywords. What am I saying? What I want to say is that the local government is responsible for the education of interest and they do so very well. We have a very strong network of music schools, we have a very strong network of art schools, we have a network of sports schools. I have said this repeatedly in this Chamber that local authorities are increasingly contributing to recreational education every year. Yes, indeed, two million, and after we reduced the state's interest education [funding], there were initially seven, we reduced the volume of this reduction. This is the task of local governments, they have done very well with this task, and we have a functioning network of very good recreational education. If we had unlimited resources, of course, the pay of teachers in education should also be higher or linked to teachers in general education [wages]. But we have a limited resource. You will remember this painful debate on teachers' pay. You say that we have not reached the desired goal quickly enough. No, I haven't. If the previous government had put EUR 30 million in addition to teachers' salaries, we would be in a much better situation today than the national average of teachers' salaries. Let this be a lesson for all of us. Mistakes are made to learn from them. I hope that all subsequent governments will learn from the fact that once you fail to raise teachers' salaries, this hole is very deep to come out of.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U216	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will also say very quickly, in a reply, that I have attended school during socialism, had personalities and were taught the children responsibilities and responsibilities. And I also know that during my children's time, a teacher was hung by his feet out of a window and said, "If you're too arrogant, we'll let your hands go." So there's been all kinds of things all the time. But now to my question. It's like I've heard that the satisfaction of students at a country school or a small school is lower. Very logical: lower satisfaction, more money, close. However, there is a country in the European Union where rural schools have been kept even if there are no children there, with the aim that suddenly people come to rural areas. This depends very much on the objective: whether we want people to leave the rural area, or vice versa, we want people to come back there. My point is, maybe we should think about how to increase satisfaction in small schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U218	Thank you. The satisfaction polls I quoted concerned upper secondary school. They weren't about middle school. In fact, what we are saying is that there must also be a school network in rural areas, and for a small child, there must also be a school as close to home as possible in rural areas. Nobody wants to shut down country schools. From first to sixth grade, schooling is cheap. It is also possible to have a small school in a fully cost-effective way from first to sixth grade and it is also done, and it is important that small children can go to a school close to home. I understand that a good colleague, Jaak Aab, certainly thinks differently because he is the Minister for Regional Affairs, but I, as Minister for Education and Science, will be primarily concerned with the issue of quality in the field of education. We need to ensure that children have the highest possible quality education and make these decisions on the basis of quality. But in any case, rural schools are important, and at the level of primary school, we do not see any particular difference between rural schools and city schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U219	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U220	Minister, thank you very much. I am sorry that we have only one question to ask, that was your wish, but then I will try to formulate three questions in one minute. First of all, your initiative to come up with the threshold and basic school exams through the government. You knew that this topic was so passionate and emotional, even at Parliament level, for the fourth year in a row. Please tell me why you did not come to Parliament first [with a debate], at least in the Committee on Culture, there was no debate on this subject, [but you came to] with an immediate solution. That's the first question. Question two. Can you predict how you're doing with university management contracts? I know you also said you'd meet them on Friday, but still, what's your prognosis? Is it true that, indeed, until September, at least we do not sign administrative contracts? And a third. You did not speak at all in your strategic speech about an inclusive education system. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The National Audit Office has discovered that thousands of children are not getting quite the support that...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U221	Time, Victoria!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U222	I am sorry, but three questions have been formulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U223	Thank you. Education and research are such a wide area that, just as you need to be able to accommodate your three questions for a certain time, so it was my job to accommodate this whole area for half an hour and we had to talk or the task was to talk about the strategic developments from 2021 to 2022. I'm sorry I couldn't cover all the topics. Yes, I would, and that was probably the expression of my whining as well. I'm sorry about that. First, the thresholds. I myself was at this debate in the Riigikogu when this topic was raised, and at that moment we were talking about losing basic school exams. The proposal was that the comprehensive school finals with common tasks disappear. A large part of the education sector also opposed this. Most representative organisations in the field of education said: we are not in favour of this. And we also said here in the Riigikogu Chamber: we are not in favour of this. Today we are in a situation where most representative organisations in the field of education say: exams must remain, an important part of the learning process, is the measurement of learning outcomes. The test itself is important, the question is whether we need to continue with the threshold that was earlier, while last year, when schools conducted mandatory exams for all without thresholds and evaluated these exam results on a 100% scale, the school families experienced it and realised that nothing was wrong with it. This is a much more transparent and easier way to give feedback to a young person. So this initiative has come from inside the field. This is not a political initiative. We have a deadline for feedback on this draft on 17 February. Let's see, some organisations have already sent us feedback. It is very clearly supported by the School Leaders' Association. The Co-operative Chamber of Teacher Subjects has sent their feedback on the application of the threshold, which is very clearly supporting the abolition of the threshold. Students' associations very clearly support it, school psychologists very clearly support it. And we're waiting for more feedback. A union of educators, let's see what they say. I know they're interviewing their members on this subject right now. Let us hear what the organisations representing education say. We will certainly not do this if the education sector is not ready for this if it is judged that we are not ready for it. Today, on the basis of the feedback received, it seems that rather the contrary, we are prepared for this. And I would like to remind you that Finland, for example, no longer has national comprehensive school finals for years. What is important is that our children receive support and feedback throughout, so it is absolutely certain that when the end of the ninth grade is finished, they will have acquired the necessary knowledge. Now for the management contracts. I'm meeting with the Rectors' Council on Friday. As I said in the Committee on Culture, the Rectors have sent a very clear message that they are not prepared to sign administrative agreements unless the state says that 15% of operating grants will increase from next year. We can't say that today. I am not in a position to say today that 15% of operating support will increase in the country's budgetary strategy. Yes, I introduced the situation to the members of the government in higher education, and it seemed to me that the general idea was that more money was needed in higher education, but I have no authority to say it is 10%, 15%, or how much of this demand we can satisfy. If the rectors remain in line with their demands and, according to my understanding, they do so, then management contracts allocate 20% of their funding to higher education institutions and they have estimated that they will be able to do so without management contracts until autumn. It is easier for large universities, it is more difficult for smaller universities, but together they have made this decision. I guess we can talk on Friday. In fact, there is no need for this administrative contract so much for the university, as I said, only 20% of the money comes from administrative contracts. Administrative contracts are very much needed by the state. Because in administrative agreements we say that we want to have a diverse Estonian-language higher education, with administrative agreements we want to tell universities how many more engineers, doctors, teachers we need. By means of administrative agreements, we want to give the messages or the so-called guidelines of the state that we expect from universities. Universities are autonomous, that is what is going through negotiations, but now the country has been taken away from this negotiating lever, we have to wait for the autumn discussions on the country's budgetary strategy, and I hope that they will go well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U224	Helle-Moonika... Yeah, go on!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U225	I'm sorry! Inclusive education too. I do not have much more to say than I have already answered my colleague Ivari Padar here. We also continued to increase the order of specialized education and training for support specialists with the additional study places that we have now ordered. It's important. We need support specialists to reach more schools, they have reached them, but there are still too few. And there is certainly one method in a situation where the National Audit Office also says that we will never reach a level of perfection in the situation of our workforce; we simply do not have enough of these people to get all the support specialists to each school perfectly. We can also solve this problem through the centres of education and support services that several local authorities have already set up, so that these support professionals can also work full-time in order to provide services to different small schools where they are unlikely to get full-time working there. But obviously this is an important issue, and that is what we will continue to deal with in the light of this, as I said, of children's mental health issues being topical.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U226	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U227	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is good that we have opened a debate here on what can or may not be used as an instrument of education policy. And I thank you for giving me an example of your life here at the school where you grew up and learned because you got your fingers on with a stick of cards. Well, either you've made it to the Minister's office because of it or whatever it is, it's a forum for discussion. But are you really saying that all the good results that have been achieved so far in the PISA tests, our level of education is really very high, has it really been achieved because of fear and must be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U228	Have they been achieved by the threshold? They certainly have not been achieved through the threshold, and that is what I am saying that our education is ready to teach without fear. There are certainly teachers who use the exam threshold to motivate students. I'm sure there are teachers, but there's not enough. I hope that you, as a member of the Committee on Culture, often go to schools and talk to teachers and listen to the methods they use to teach. We can see that these methods work. For years we have had a modern approach to learning, which precisely reduces fear of learning and seeks to increase the inner motivation of a young person to learn and exert himself. Diligence in the way we say, learning is always an effort. Learning is always an effort and, of course, young people are making an effort. The question is, maybe they're trying too hard, trying to break themselves. In any case, there will always be effort and insistence in learning. The question is that the threshold doesn't teach anyone, and the threshold shouldn't make anyone learn. The motivation for learning should come from somewhere else. And when it comes from the threshold, these teachers need further training.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U229	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U230	Thank you, Minister. As a comment to Jaak Juske's question and your answer, I very much agree with you about what you said in the example of children at the art school, how important it is for children to have an opportunity of interest and an education of interest for their development. You talk a lot about mental health. And in all of this, I must say that your words and actions are in conflict with the deafening, because to go and actually reduce resources in this same activity of interest and in the education of interest is in no way contributing to either one or the other. But on this subject, we have been asking you a question today, so we can talk about this subject for a few days, if you can prepare it, further and further. But my question is about teachers' salaries, which are now well below the two-year average wage increase. You indicated that this was a failure of the previous government, and you put it on them. Have you talked to your coalition partner about this? What do they say about making up for what they didn't do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U231	Thank you. Of course, if last year's pay had risen as much as it would have been this year, the situation would be better, but it would not, of course, be perfect. Still, we wouldn't have reached our goal. However, we would have been much closer. Yes, I have spoken to the coalition partner, and I have realised that it is precisely the pay of teachers and the funding of higher education in the field of education that are suitable for the coalition partner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U232	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U233	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! We have the current regime with an extremely complex name. For the sake of the Steinogram, I will read it out: "The conditions and procedures for the preparation and conduct of the basic and upper secondary school final exams and the preparation, assessment and maintenance of the examinations, and the conditions and procedures for analysing the results of the examinations, common basic school finals and state examinations." Paragraph 37 "Assessment of state examinations', paragraph 15, expressly states: "The state examination has been completed if at least one per cent of the maximum result has been achieved. " My question is that. You said no one's being dragged out. So how many students have you ever had to repeat a class course? I have a completely different experience from the juvenile committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U234	Thank you. We need to distinguish between basic school common assignments, final exams and state exams. The state exams that you have just quoted here by this one point are upper secondary school finals. It has been done years ago that the so-called minimum of the upper secondary school final exam is one point. But we know that upper secondary school graduates want to go first and foremost to universities and universities often take into account upper secondary school finals, and that is why they really want to work hard to make these exams as good as possible. In general, it is no longer very common to repeat a student's class course. I mean, if you don't repeat a class course, you have to assume that the student is lagging behind most of the subjects. In fact, in a modern education system, it should not happen that it has gone badly in all subjects throughout the course. What can be done? For example, if there are such large gaps in some subjects that they cannot be filled in within one academic year, it is possible to undertake an individual curriculum, allow the child to enter the next class, but then deal with this one subject more thoroughly so that he or she can catch up. We are still trying to keep children in the education system, identify their learning gaps and react as quickly as possible so that they do not become massive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U235	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, However, I would allow myself not to accept this decision concerning the examinations. First of all, I think that some of the reasons do not relate to this decision, for example, that we do not have a sufficient overview of how the child is progressing throughout our studies, and now we are canceling the exams. They're not related, so you could check regularly and more often. The importance of exams is quite multifaceted, I think you know that very well. Getting a program is one thing, but the other is that a child learns, a young person learns that at important moments in life you have to pull yourself together, and if he doesn't acquire it, then he may later have a painful surprise. But I'd ask about the wages. The money does not go where it should go, the teacher has to take extra loads to earn a normal salary, and the number of hours is also high. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And I think local governments need to keep an eye on them a little more often. How would you answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U237	Thank you. I deeply accept your opinion that the exams should be subject to a threshold. Fortunately, we live in a democratic country where people have freedom of expression and opinion, and it would be very sad if we all, as one man, thought that the threshold for the final exam was not decisive in our education system, but the learning process was crucial in order to take the final exams as well as possible. That is your right, and I deeply accept it. With regard to teachers' salaries, I am not tired of repeating that this government, where you were, has raised the teachers' payroll fund by, for example, 30 million euros, today's teachers' salary level would be something else entirely. So I really hope that if you get into government at one point, you will keep teachers' salaries as a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U238	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U239	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You're saying that you don't lock up rural schools, you just reward local governments who shut down upper secondary school. Well, that could mean the whole school is gonna die out. How many schools of upper secondary school do you intend to close? How much is the reward money you're supposed to be? If you look at the previous minister, he once rewarded the closure of a school for children with special educational needs, but today it can be said that these children are all in the wind. How much money is there, and how many schools of high school do you plan to reward so to speak, to put them away?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U240	Thank you. Yes, it is an interesting question of how many local authorities are motivated to make decisions about money. It's such a philosophical question. But, you know, I have to tell you that this money is very small: EUR 600,000 is in total for all this support. This is not the kind of money that, for example, the local government can renovate its primary school or build a stadium. It is a small amount of money, so it is really more of a cost to prepare for this reform of the school network. Only this support will certainly not motivate any local government to close its upper secondary school. There are simply local authorities who are planning to do so anyway, who see other opportunities, who have thought out how to transport their children, young people living in their local government, and how to ensure their living opportunities when necessary. They have made these decisions, and in order to implement these plans, they will receive a small amount of support. This is not a large investment grant in this sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U241	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U242	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Since each ambassador has only one question, I will now ask this question at the request of my colleague, Mr Kingo, as a follow-up to his question. He pointed out the upper secondary school of Avinurme and Mustvee in his constituency and the distance to Jõgeva and Rakvere, that Avinurme, for example, was 48 kilometres from Avinurme to Jõgeva. I myself come from a small village in the Climate. I went to upper secondary school in Vastselina, also during the consultative period, where there are 28 kilometres of shortcuts, but the bus passed through the small villages through Petseri for almost 50 kilometres. I preferred to ride this distance on a bike that was probably good for my health. But I ask how technically it is possible to arrange all this when the distances are so great. I'm saying I had some really big problems to organize my day at school.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U243	Thank you. This is a perfectly adequate problem. Of course, we have single upper secondary schools that are very far from the centers, and for children to move on a daily basis, this distance is too long. There are two options. For example, does the state one day make administrative agreements with these upper secondary schools, as Aivar Kokk suggested that they are branches of state secondary schools, where some subjects are taught on the spot on a daily basis, but some subjects are either online or in the nearest state secondary school, where transport is also guaranteed. These opportunities are all there and we are also fully prepared for discussions on such issues. Nobody wants to make young people drive back and forth every day for 60 kilometres, that's not normal, and that's something we don't want. I did not say before that I did not propose that I could be asked one question, I could discuss education with you here for several hours, and this [decision] was born somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U244	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U245	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! We're already discussing several hours. Before this conversation came out, I literally can't quote you, but basically the position was that you said there was such an idea that if we lose this exam threshold or bring it down, all the students would come in, hands in their pockets, and didn't do this exam, that it was a ridiculous thought, of course people would come and make an effort. Well, no one's ever said that. We argue that the standard is going down, that effort is less needed and that demandingness and ambition are gradually decreasing throughout the entire education system. It's a long process that we're not going to taste until many years later. No matter which university faculty to speak to, he says that children today who come from high school have less knowledge than those who came ten years ago. If you come up with such a statement that nothing will happen as a result, then it actually shows that you do not understand at all what is happening. I have a question as to why you're responding to the study process and the exam. These are complementary things.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U246	Thank you. You inspired a number of ideas. First of all, I would like to tell you that I recommend reading today's Estonian Päevaleht, an article by educational psychologists, and I recommend reading today's Postman, where there is an article by professors of education. Maybe it opens up a little bit of the world view and understanding of the field of education. In addition, Professor Eve Kikas and her team have produced excellent books on learning and teaching at different levels of school. These are really very, very good books that describe what learning is about. And I agree very much with you, the learning process and the exam, they go together, they're supposed to be together, and they're still together. No one has a plan to lose the exam. In the learning process, measuring learning outcomes is a natural part and must be done, and that is what we want to continue to do at the end of primary school. The question as to whether the threshold will give rise to demandingness. But, good member of the Riigikogu! You're saying you're talking to university faculties who say that ten years ago, young people were smarter. Look, this has all happened on this threshold, if it's true. We have had a threshold for many years. I believe in young people, and I know that young people want to make progress in life, want to make an effort, can make an effort, and the vast majority of experts in the field of education believe that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U247	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U248	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. The fact that they were then subject to a threshold or a threshold, compulsory or non-mandatory, is a sensitive subject, was known in advance. Just as today we are talking about a lot of these exams alongside teacher follow-up. Why has this preparation process for this regulation also been what it is? In fact, if it makes sense, if it is important to move towards learner-centred education to take the pressure off students, then no teacher or school manager can accept it. It's different now, for some reason. And what education psychologists are writing today can only agree. But this change to reduce exam anxiety and somehow to create a learning motivation, to create meaningful learning in the educational system cannot begin with losing the threshold. All other things must be in place and the risks grounded, only then it makes sense to take such a step.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U249	Thank you. We now have the coordination circle that you preceded, this regulation was preceded by meetings with an area where this issue was discussed and where it was felt that the general view was that we were prepared to do so, in the light of the experience of the corona era. And there's the coordination circle. Let's see what feedback we're getting and what this readiness is for a particular solution. And I will say once again that if the education sector clearly states that we are not ready for this, we will continue to need a threshold for children to work and learn, then we will not be ready and then we will not. But if the education sector says that we are ready for this, it would be strange if we were to think that, for example, one or two political parties think that this is not a good idea, and then we do not, while the education sector itself appreciates that they are ready for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U250	Good Minister, the members of the Riigikogu have run out of questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U251	Thank you very much for this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U252	And now let's go to the negotiations. I would remind you that the representatives of the political groups will get the floor in the negotiations. First on behalf of the Social Democrats, Eduard Odines, please! (Eduard Odines wants more time.) Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U253	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Really exciting format, exciting discussion in the history of the Estonian Parliament for the first time. I don't know if the Minister of Education was lucky rather than to be the first member of our Government to test this format here. Indeed, when we are talking about a parliamentary state, Parliament could play a greater role and be responsible for setting strategic targets outside the umbrella development plan, which is 'Estonia 2035', because sectoral development plans, as you know, we simply have access to or demonstration in this way and we cannot contribute much to this content. And, as we have seen today, from these development plans, [we] cannot contribute much to the strategic goals of a given year. One question will be asked and five speeches will be made on the whole house. That's it. Since the format is new, the members of the government obviously do not know very well how to behave here, what to talk about and what to touch on. Those who followed our debate here today, how many strategic developments did we hear? Well, at least the first half of the call was purely last year's report. This is where the question arises, isn't it? If you ever have to come here with a report on the implementation of a specific development plan, will there be the same speech? Maybe in terms of saving time, it makes sense. And one more thought that came out of listening to it. Perhaps the next ministers will also be able to use these ideas, which is why I am spending so much time on this right now. We talk very much, or the Minister very much talked about what could be, and a great deal used the coercive way of speaking. Speaking of money, that's what it could be, that's what it could be. If the Minister comes here to talk about strategic developments this year, it should be a very definite way of speaking ♪ these are the decisions made by the Minister, the strategic proposals of the Minister, rather than drawing a picture for us here of how well Estonian teachers would live if they had a salary like the one the Minister is talking about here. In addition to this, since these strategic developments are probably very much related to the budgetary choices made by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, it is probably unreasonable to come and talk here about the budgetary amounts and wishes of 2022 and the developments in which no one can change anything anyway, nothing can be done. When I listened to this presentation, I had the idea that, in fact, these discussions on strategic developments in next year should take place in the Riigikogu several months before the adoption of the state budget, so that we could somehow change these strategic developments, direct them, support them financially and so on. Now, if we are going to ex post determine the facts that we have and what we may not be able to do, what we would like to do, this presentation does not make any sense here. I do not know who plans to come here from ministers, perhaps the esteemed Minister of Education and Science will also give colleagues the idea of some kind of change in the format in order to come in advance, not afterwards. Then it would not sound like a report, but rather as a presentation of strategic development plans. Now on education issues. Indeed, as has already been said here, I would have liked to hear in the Minister's presentation the keywords that almost all the questioners marked off, such as changing the same system of exams, shutting down the upper secondary school section of rural schools. Unfortunately, we did not hear this, unfortunately we had to ask so many questions about it and the Minister had to make so much clear. But clearly, losing the threshold is a concern, it is a problem and it needs to be addressed. There are different approaches, philosophical approaches. As I mentioned in my question, I am very concerned about the threshold for the examination of Estonian as a second language. As the teachers say, it will be possible to pass the exam and complete comprehensive school once you can write your name in the Latin alphabet. The exam is done. These action plans, which the Minister spoke about just as well as the follow-up action plan for teachers, as well as the action plan for the transition to education in Estonian, are presented to us in the same way as very big achievements and so on, but in fact, if you look into what their legal status is, you can see that they are just internal documents from the Ministry, which have no budget coverage, or are, but may not be, or not in the amount that the Minister would want. These aren't government documents, they're just ministerial or ministry papers. I don't know if they can be called strategic goals. Maybe it can. But that's the question again about the same format: what should we talk about here? And indeed, I do not know whether the minister is happy or not, he is a guinea pig in this format we have here. Of course, if the Minister comes here to talk about strategic goals and developments, he would not want to hear the accusations of previous governments in answers or speeches. That's the last thing to do, isn't it? To come here and say, "Dear colleagues, we must all be embarrassed. " The sitting government and the sitting minister must be embarrassed. We can talk, right, so that the social democrats who made the Republic of Estonia in 1918 must also be embarrassing. Well, I don't know how far we're going with this embarrassment. Of course, the issue of the development of talented children and education of interest was also addressed. It won't stop for long. There's gonna be a question coming up soon, and then we can talk about it. The Minister must, of course, also be embarrassed by this embarrassing salary increase and the non-existent wage increase for academic staff. I certainly cannot share here the congratulations of my colleagues in the Reform Party on how the R &amp; D funding will grow. Nominally increasing, the percentage does not grow as was 1%, so it is still 1%. You can't say it like that. And, of course, these unfortunate administrative contracts with universities. The minister says that universities don't really need them. I don't know. Is that the kind of attitude you don't need? Well, then let's do another system. Let the state do its, I don't know, the minister's decree and give the money to the universities. Why do they agree to anything, right? That's a really good topic coming out of here. As Mr Viktoria said, indeed, perhaps by autumn we will find out about these administrative contracts, but perhaps we will not. Because in the meantime, we have a doctoral reform and so on, other issues relating to administrative contracts. In any case, I call on all ministers, as well as the Minister for Education, for the next time, to think seriously about what to talk about and what things are strategic goals and what things are not strategic goals. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U254	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Jaak White, please! [[Jaak White wants more time.]] Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U255	Ladies and gentlemen, who have gathered so mass in this Chamber! We listened to the presentation by the Minister for Education and Research, which I considered to be completely adequate in the short term, whether acceptable, but superficial in a strategic perspective. I am just thinking of an overview, not your answers to questions that consisted of interlinked words, without a doubt, they were related to the point of the questions, but those thoughts transmitted were very poorly aligned with the point of the questions. And I promise to tell myself that at the university exam, as long as there are still unsatisfied grades allowed, I would consider this option if I were to give such answers. Now read the words of praise, and in the future I will focus on the problems of our training or learning activities, which I do not think were discussed in sufficient detail or were not discussed at all. I'll start at the bottom. Didn't hear anything about an important mature early childhood education law. In this regard, we are concerned first of all that there will be too much proportion of children with a second home language in the Estonian children's institution, and in the case of early childhood education, we find that the child's gender must also be taken into account when drawing up the curriculum, in addition to the specific characteristics of children, that is, abilities, linguistic and cultural background and age. We are also concerned about early childhood education, on the one hand, sexualisation and, on the other hand, the implementation of gender neutrality policies, although this may sound paradoxical. And we are also concerned about the impact of digital technologies on both initial and primary education. We are concerned about the application of the principles of inclusive education, which, especially in the case of teacher deprivation, inevitably lowers the quality of education. For the same reason, of course, we will respond to the draft regulation signed by you on 26 January, which you want to change the meaning of passing the final exams with common tasks in basic school. And we're also responding to the closure of the M.E.S. But, well, I'm not going to talk any further about these issues, because if you ask them, they're going to be answered anyway. Okay. On the way to the next levels of education, I would like to remind you that we have, in fact, uncleared strategic proportions between professional and higher education. And again, I would like to remind you that we are forecast to need 48% of graduates with higher education in 2027; they are currently 47% among the 30- to 34-year-olds, and we need 33% of those with vocational education and training, and we currently need 24% of them. Thus, this greater bottleneck in our educational landscape may actually be the shortage of vocationally educated workers. We did not hear any analysis of this issue or any question raised at all. And the least of your presentations was about higher education education, which is actually the subject of even the most intense disputes now, or rather, you were talking about increasing funding, which is appropriate, which is entirely relevant, but you did not touch on the quality of higher education. Again, I have to say this is paradoxical, but I have to say what I mean by quality, namely: the specialties, understanding, knowledge and skills that are acquired. You did touch little, but you did touch on the compliance of higher education education with the demands of our society, but you did not touch at all on the English language of universities. In fact, we still have no explanation as to how low we are going to let this university study lat, or from where to become a so-called "pillared vocational school" from the university. And I would point out or recall that paper is not important in itself; paper does not give erudition, knowledge, skills or understanding. Nor did we hear what has been done on the basis of the conclusion of the audit "High Education Reform and Labour Needs" of the National Audit Office, which was completed two years ago, that the students' professional choices have moved in the opposite direction to the labour needs of society. And I could ask you if, from the point of view of HTM, there is no problem, or at least the symptom of the problem is that for every bachelor-level female student we have 0.7 male students. We have the biggest gap in Europe. This is, of course, a major problem from the point of view of society as a whole. And from our point of view, there is pointless English-linguization in universities. This year 16% of students studied in English and this number and percentage have risen rapidly. This has also been greatly encouraged by the state's policies. At the same time, only 20% of students studied in purely Estonian-language curricula on tertiary doctoral programmes. True, 55% in Estonian and English curricula, but in essence this means that they are still studying in English. I would remind you that according to the Language Act, the curriculum is considered to be in Estonian if 60% of the studies take place in Estonian, meaning that there is no obstacle in Estonian-language curricula to the application of English-language or whatever foreign-language top lecturers. Learning in English poses a threat to the vitality of our mother tongue and national culture, but it does not lead to an increase in quality and does not lead to the preparation of the necessary specialists in the disciplines that the labour market needs. You didn't talk about it, and perhaps one of the reasons is that your performance had been held in this very format of development plans. Development plans are bureaucratic documents, the role of which was very small and on the basis of which the country could not be managed and the results of its governance could not be assessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U256	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U257	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good brothers and sisters in education, who I hope you're still behind the screens! I am really glad that one day the development plan is being discussed within the working day, it is also historic that we do not have to discuss educational problems at midnight or any other development plan. Very polite. I would like to point out that, in presenting this development plan, the Minister highlighted some very, very important activities that have been carried out. I am very pleased that a strong basis has indeed been laid for R &amp; D, that the problem of doctoral students is about to be resolved, that teachers' follow-up is being addressed, that the development plan for education in Estonian has been adopted and that the action plan has been developed and that very sensitive topic are being taken up by the school network has been taken up. For this courage, I really thank and encourage the Minister to go on with it, because the quality of education and what is actually being given to our children for life depend on it. But my speech is rather that I would like to point out that the development plan is not dealing with any kind of aimless and irrational rape in education, but it shows that we are in the middle of a very big paradigm shift. And it is not surprising that understanding this paradigm shift is so difficult. We are moving from a training school to an education that supports everyone's development. This concerns both the learner and the teacher. We are moving towards a self-leading learner who is aware of his own strengths and weaknesses, who can set his own goals and not under fear, but who knows why he learns what he learns and how he learns. In this paradigm shift, the teacher needs to create a suitable environment for learning. He's the one who ties back and forth, not just puts the grade, doesn't work red, or doesn't say what threshold he reached. The teacher motivates learning and supports and links back and forth learning. The prerequisite for this is indeed a competent and motivated teacher who knows what learning means, how it happens, understands human psychology. He must be a learning professional, enthusiastic about his subject, but he must be able to understand and support the student's ability to understand his strengths and develop them and choose either vocational school or upper secondary school on a completely equal footing after primary school, because he has found his strengths that he can develop, knows what his weaknesses are and is able to cope with them. The student is a partner in this new paradigm change, not an object that is being processed. He is not a vessel in whom knowledge is poured out, and for the sake of a teacher, he appreciates, for example, how much is left between his ears, but he really learns for life because he knows he needs it. Clearly, the way in which it is conducted is problematic and difficult. And the way we choose it is the subject of negotiations. But maybe it's more important to understand why we need this paradigm shift. If Estonia is at the top of the world according to the PISA educational tests, why do we want to change anything at all? I think it's behind all these misunderstandings and critical stories. The reason for this is that PISA's research shows that our children are at a good level, also shows that homes have supported children and have many books, and this is the education faith of the people. But we have problems with the school's liking, problems with mental health. We have problems with children not knowing what they like to do and what specialty or profession they could choose. We still have almost a third of children who enter working life after their education, without learning anything specially. We have a big problem with boys in education, it's a dropout, and it's that boys don't really want to learn, they're going to work. This, in turn, poses a new problem that our very good girls, who reach higher education and degrees, do not have a life partner with an appropriate level of education. It can affect ivet, it can affect migration, it can also affect the popularity of populists. And I think that all of this also shows that our education does not place much emphasis on critical thinking and does not really help us to overcome, for example, the situation in which we are in the Corona, so that people understand what scientific worldview means and know how to act on it. How do we achieve all this? The key to this is, of course, higher education and science, the development of which we need to put more emphasis than today. Thank you very much and a lot of strength for both the Minister and the Government and for all of us to make these paradigmatic changes in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U258	Marko Šorin on behalf of the central fraction. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U259	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I would like to begin by stressing that the Minister of Education and Research's overview of developments in the field is novel for the Riigikogu and therefore it is not justified to complain that the ambassadors cannot have enough influence. Let us be honest, however, that has never been the subject of such a debate in a large Chamber before. Therefore, what is happening today is a pure bonus and an opportunity for everyone who aches for education and science in Estonia. You can write daily articles in newspapers or in the common media, even several times a day. I thank the Minister for the overview he has just made here and for the answers he has given to the questions. Of course, the present world revolves around the corona, and so it is in the field of education. However, as we have seen in these two years, the situation is changing and the bad is followed by a slightly brighter situation, either way. The effects of this time will occur years later, but it has tempered us. You have to see the positive in the bad. Let us be honest, so fast and effective digital learning we could hardly have done under normal circumstances. It would have been some of the leaders, but most of it would have been so-called remote monitors. Yes, the learning process has been nervous and intense, but the skills acquired remain, and it is worth capital for students, parents and teachers in view of the future. However, speaking of strategic developments in the field of education, I would like to address three issues: studies at a school close to home, the issue of Estonian and Russian schools and funding for higher education. Recently, the Ministry announced that, as a one-off grant, it would allocate additional funding to all the municipalities that decide, by the end of March of this year at the latest, to complete their training in existing schools at upper secondary school to restructure one or more municipal schools. All activities are called school networking, but support can only be obtained by closing the upper secondary school level. Yes, acceptance of support is voluntary and the decision-making councils, but the signal has been given by the state. For example, if analysis shows that ordering would mean something else, such as building a new schoolhouse or a new development leap, or why not more cooperation with our universities? Perhaps the problem here is, in fact, what was pointed out by a member of the Committee on Culture that communication has been modest here. The National Audit Office in its 2020 report pointed out that the secondary growth of teachers is at risk, especially in mathematics and natural sciences. The minister also pointed out in his presentation that one in five physics and one in six chemistry teachers is of retirement age. The increasing lack of teachers and insufficient post-growth put at risk the quality of teaching natural sciences in general education schools, which in turn reduces the number of young people who should study natural sciences at universities. This is a closed circle, as could be read in today's newspaper. As a result, the issue of upper secondary school in rural schools, which has already been addressed, is in stark contrast. Over the years, the number of highly educated professionals has decreased [and this is] to squeeze our economy. In this way, industry must employ specialists from foreign countries, such as Kazakhstan. There are fewer and fewer young people going to universities to study, and there are fewer who will also graduate from their studies. Decreasing opportunities is a particularly dangerous initiative in view of this perspective. Responsible governance means that every citizen, region and community is important. Public action must be aimed at strengthening local life, not at weakening it. Ending upper secondary school education in rural areas weakens Estonia's life and threatens the identity of communities. Some municipalities have already announced that they are not going to close the upper secondary school. Instead of closing schools, resources should be found to support a full life with all services in smaller municipalities. Local upper secondary schools often also carry values known to the community. One contradiction that we can check here: one waitress claimed that the Socialists of the Republic of Estonia created in 1918. I say it wasn't socialists. One of us must be lost. Now the topic of Estonian and Russian schools. Everyone understands that the Estonian language needs to be studied, it does not need to be repeated at all. The number of people who speak Estonian is increasing every year, but students have different abilities and opportunities. It is no longer a matter of teaching young people who speak Russian as their native language, but of teaching third and fourth languages. To this day, many issues have not been resolved, which have been discussed for years: the lack of teachers, the lack of methodology for today's teaching methods, and the teaching materials on which our colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, has made several presentations. In the case of education, the choice is very important. Estonian school education is so strong because our schools are relatively independent. I think that there must be different ways of teaching the Estonian language, such as immersion, two-way immersion, learning the language as a second language. How do we get to that? I believe that it is most effective to start with changes in kindergartens. Four years ago, a project was initiated under the leadership of the Centre Party, where the Russian language group was able to hire an Estonian-language teacher. It has proved to be popular, and every year we can pick up more and more of the fruits of our work. Good co-thinkers! On the issue of funding higher education, we agree with the government partner: the area is heavily underfunded and the resentment of those involved is therefore justified. In international comparison, the lag is particularly weepy. The attractiveness of teaching has declined, as many prefer to work in general education schools, where wages are often higher. At the same time, it should be noted that the people of universities have been academically respectful in expressing their wishes and have not gone to demanding anything with flags and songs. The labour market is rapidly changing as a result of technological developments, as well as demographic and social changes. It is no longer enough to concentrate learning at the beginning of the life cycle and the periods of study and work vary constantly. The higher education system must be in line with modern trends. Aadu Must, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, has said that the trap of free higher education lies in the fact that university graduates receive free life in Estonian circumstances. The professor, I think, overreacted a little, but there's a sign of danger in the air. The Centre Party has stood for free higher education and we have not retreated from this position. That is why we also support the proposal of university rectors to allocate at least EUR 20 million in additional funding to higher education every year, and so for five years in a row. We are facing new strategic challenges, and they are generally known: exiting the energy crisis, greening, sustainable development, as well as common challenges for all of us. President Alar Karis has said that a wise and educated nation is important for the future of Estonia. All of this, however, requires a cross-party agreement, as the Minister of Education and Science has just emphasised in his presentation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U260	Now, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U261	I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U262	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U263	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable people in the field of education! Minister, thank you very much. Before I begin with matters of substance, I would like to emphasise three formal, or technical, aspects that actually take us beyond the content. One. The format that Minister Kersna has offered us today has never been used before. Liina is the first minister to present a document prepared in the framework of the Estonian 2035 strategy. In this regard, the procedure could still be the subject. After all, we want a real debate, not a seeming presentation, and it is necessary to correct the format chosen at the outset and to give the ambassadors the opportunity not only to ask one but two questions and to allow speeches not only to the five ambassadors, but to all those who wish to. I know that Liina has just told us that it was not her wish, but we were told on Monday and Wednesday that it was all about the Minister's request. So let's just take it as an experience for the next show. Another formal concern is that today we were relatively blindly involved in the debate, because by last night, the Committee on Culture did not even have all the material that Liina Kersna was about to present. You were just the key points. However, this is not enough to prepare for a substantive discussion. It is not worth considering Parliament as a free listener, but at least as an equal discussion partner. And the third such formal nuance, the remark that our discussion is hidden from topical issues, but the strategy could be much wider than the content of the questions asked. However, in order to be wider, it is necessary to give Parliament the opportunity to prepare. So these are technical remarks, now to the content. Of course, political problems have three phases. The first phase is when the problem, the crisis comes out, and certain decisions can solve it. The second phase is that the problem, the crisis has deepened and needs strong financial resources. The third phase is when financial resources are no longer sufficient, because the problem is so deep that even money cannot find people to help alleviate the crisis. Unfortunately, we have to admit that, in many areas of education, we are either in the second phase or between the second and third phases. Then perhaps the last chance is to try to get out of the crisis, there is no chance to miss it. There are generally at least five of these problems. The problem of teacher follow-up, which was discussed here, and which is actually a very fundamental issue. Parliament has been talking about this for several years in a row. Indeed, there is a list of the solutions that the Committee on Culture has offered to the government, and here we very much expect the Ministry of Education and Research to implement the vision that has come from Parliament. There has also been such a goodwill in favour of the Minister that we very much hope that Parliament will support it. It was a little strange for me to hear it, because there was a feeling that Parliament was very much hoping that the government would support us on the list we proposed. Another major problem is the financing of higher education, including the concerns of universities of applied sciences. Here, too, I see that relatively rare situations in Estonian politics arise where universities are so rigid in their position and want to postpone the signing of contracts, and they have not just the right to do so, but also the reason. Indeed, the country did not fulfil its obligations, and at this point we are standing in this situation precisely because we did not fulfil our obligations, the country did not fulfil its obligations. The third major concern is the concerns of inclusive education. The National Audit Office has long announced that thousands of children who need additional support will not receive it within the current system. In order to solve this, we really need to take back the system that we have launched several years ago and see where it can be improved. The fourth is education in Estonian, and this is, of course, a long-standing concern. And another problem that so little is said here is the vocational education system. Today we did not hear this at all and, in fact, during last year, we talked relatively little about this topic, although for several years again the Committee on Culture has been talking about the issue of vocational education and, in the same way, has communicated its own list of possible solutions to the government. I would also like to move forward on this issue, and if we do not deal with it now, in a few years' time, the crisis will get deeper and deeper. So that's a list of burning topics. There are, of course, more of them, including, for example, the problems from the corona crisis, but on all the points that I listed, we are either in a very deep crisis or we are falling into a crisis. And there is really no time here, there is a need for action, and we would expect action from the Minister in particular, but, I stress, concerted action with Parliament, a clear vision, not just a description of the problems. And now, on topical issues, which were also mentioned today, and which do not really give the opportunity to fully devote itself to the great challenges. Although many burning problems await a solution in the field of education, a considerable number of educational people are talking about the untying of comprehensive school finals on the subject of school graduation, which was initiated by the media unexpectedly by the Minister of Education and Research, Liina Kersna. For me, there are three major concerns in the debate on basic school finals, which I also expressed today in Teacher's page, where you can read more about it, but basically there is also a great concern here. That's it. When we look at these drafts, which have been on the table of the Committee on Culture four years ago, three years ago, two years ago, these drafts were very similar at the time. The list of drafts shows that the details may be different, but the content is generally one: whether and how to check students' knowledge when completing comprehensive school? Also, whether acquired knowledge is a condition for termination. Parliament has accepted derogations under the conditions of the COVID-19, but has not given its consent to radically change the entire evaluation system. It was three years ago, two [years ago] and then last year again. Now, in February of this year, Minister Liina Kersna came up with an initiative, which means a fresh start to the old debate. And another point that really bothers me lately is that, once again, we are moving away from the model of parliamentaryism. Liina Kersnalt is already the third issue to be made public, in particular through the media, and only then will there be a debate in Parliament. This was the case with the Estonian-language education action plan, where even the opposition, not to mention not being coordinated with the government partner, was announced to the media at the beginning of the action plan. With the same effect, the Ministry paid the municipalities to close small schools, and now the subject of basic school final exams. Today we also learned that the minister is going to the government level with the subject of the school network [further]. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But maybe first to the Committee on Culture? I'd love to! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U264	That is the end of the group's speeches. The Minister has a wish for a final word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U265	Thank you. First, I wanted to say thank you. When I was in the Riigikogu for six years, I dreamed of a discussion on the subject of education, as took place here today. Indeed, in the past, Riigikogu members have not had the opportunity to discuss such topical strategic choices in the field of education. And I am very pleased that this change has taken place and that all the ministers in the sector can come and present what they have right now. If you look at the title of today's presentation, my task was to focus on 2022. I'm sorry I didn't talk about long perspectives because they're in the development plans and I've been given 30 minutes. [Only] 30 minutes. I had to make a choice about what subjects we were talking about. And the fact that getting out of the COVID crisis is now, and that is clearly, I look at the fulfillment of my working days on an important issue, we all have to make an effort to get children out of this COVID crisis healthy and smart. We have a very strategic and important topic for teacher post-growth. There was no way I wouldn't talk about it. Guaranteeing education in Estonian for all young people in Estonia is an important topic, which also went through several follow-up presentations, and I could not help but mention it. The funding of higher education in the same way is a very important and critical issue this year, on which we are trying to find a solution. Early childhood education, vocational education, the quality of higher education, university English-speaking, gender gap in education, you know, if you had given me an hour, I would have talked about these issues as well. For example, the same gender inequality in education. That's it. That's our problem. When we talked about that there are too few women in science, and indeed there are too few women, then, for example, in general education, we see that the educational gap is precisely to the detriment of the boys. So this is also a topic that we could discuss, but the format right now is that there is not much time. Then I wanted to say that there was a complaint, as if the Committee on Culture had not received materials or materials of sufficient depth. I really don't know what it's been like. On Friday, we sent the Committee on Culture the main paths, the basic facts on which I base my report, and I really relied on them. But the text of the speech itself was actually written just before it came here. If we agree that there must be a text for the speech, as far as I know, for the other speeches that the ministers hold in the Riigikogu, they have not been given to the members of the Riigikogu several days in advance, then we can make such an agreement. But let's do it. I did not know that I should send the whole text of my speech to the Committee on Culture. However, I knew that on all these issues that I intend to talk about, and I also told the Committee on Culture that I intend to talk about all these issues, we have had separate discussions. We have talked separately about funding higher education, separately about teacher growth, separately about the Estonian-language education agenda and COVID, of course. Once again, thank you very much for the substantive debate. It will certainly be possible to design the format, because I was really the first and other ministers will be able to take lessons, and I certainly think that this debate should continue in the coming years. Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U266	Ladies and gentlemen, We have graduated from the strategic developments in the field of the Minister for Education and Research in 2022. The Riigikogu will not take a decision in this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U267	We can move on to our third item. This is a draft of the Law amending the Media Services Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 327. We're in the middle of a second reading. Please present the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Jaak White. You have 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U268	Ladies and gentlemen, Prepare to listen to a long and apparently boring presentation of how the Committee on Culture handled the draft media services after the first reading was concluded in plenary. This is a draft which allows Estonia's legal area to be transposed into the European Union's Audiovisual Media Services Directive. But not just that. According to this draft, the Media Services Act will also regulate video-sharing platforms and social media channels. Clarifying requirements for service providers and improving access to the media for people with disabilities and creating the necessary conditions for monitoring. It was an introduction. I am not going to read out the entire force of the people who attended these meetings. You can check the protocols yourself. I'll focus on the content. I'm not going to be able to refer to the nine meetings in 20 minutes, and there's no need for that either. And you don't have the will to do it. So, this draft was discussed at nine meetings of the lead committee, discussed opinions and amendments, and finally voted on. I count those who tabled amendments: the Social Democratic Party Group, the Isamaa Group, the members of the EKRE Group and the Member of the Riigikogu Jüri Jaanson. The members of the EKRE Group withdrew their amendments, namely 219 were withdrawn and 223 were withdrawn. Opinions were also submitted by the Estonian Broadcasting Association, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Authors' Association, the Family and Tradition Protection Foundation and the New News Portal. These opinions were jointly presented by AS TV Play Baltics and AS All Media Eesti. I will now focus on the amendments, because at first reading we have already held a general debate on this draft. The first amendment was the one presented by the Estonian Broadcasting Union, and the opinion came from it that the minimum volume of news programmes should be reduced, especially in the light of international programmes. The proposers wanted this not to be categorically required for international television licences. And according to this amendment, the obligation to broadcast news was reduced from six days a week to five days a week. The share of news programmes in the programme was reduced from 5% to 2%. This amendment was fully taken into account by the Committee on Culture. The second amendment was driven by the proposals of the Estonian Broadcasting Association and the companies with the mentioned half English name. The amendment complements the draft in such a way that it is possible to derogate from the obligation to broadcast news programmes and own productions, in addition to the television licence to broadcast mostly music, sports, film and other thematic programmes, also in the case of an international television licence. And there was a little discussion about that. Karin Ligi, legal adviser to the Ministry of Culture, commented that when it comes to an international television licence player who, at the same time, directs his programme not only to a foreign country but also to an Estonian audience, the requirements of the language law still apply. I will also read you the relevant section of the language law. According to this, in the public performance and transmission of audiovisual works, including programmes and advertisements, the audiovisual media service provider or undertaking shall ensure that the language text is accompanied by a corresponding translation in Estonian in content and form. So foreign language participation does not increase with this provision. The third amendment was tabled by three members of the EKRE Group. It was editorial. The Committee on Culture decided that this could be taken into account in substance if Amendment 4 of the Committee on Culture was taken into account. And so did the Committee on Culture to take this fourth drafting amendment into account. I'll save you a chance to read it to someone interested, check the bill card. Amendment 5 was more serious. It was presented by the Isamaa Group and explained by the amendment, the wording of § 19 (1) and 191 (1) of the Media Services Act constitutes a threat to freedom of expression and constitutes a preliminary step towards criminalising the so-called hate speech. The Fatherland Group's proposal was to abandon these changes. This was already the subject of a very serious discussion at first reading. According to the explanation provided by the Ministry of Culture, this draft has been drawn up with the aim of transposing amendments to the Audiovisual Media Services Directive into Estonian law. And the Ministry argued that freedom of expression is not an absolute right and that this provision constitutes a restriction on freedom of expression for the protection of public order and the rights and freedoms of others. They claim that these requirements derive directly from the Directive. In the view of the Ministry of Culture, such restrictions should be considered to be an acceptable barrier. The Committee on Culture rejected the amendment, but why, to this I will now come next. There were 2 members of the Committee on Culture in favour of this amendment and 9 against it. However, the Committee on Culture made an amendment to the same provision on the very same reason given by the Fatherland itself. The reasoning is the same. The sixth amendment is therefore that of the Committee on Culture and amended the Media Services Act [§ 19 (1) ] to be amended by the draft in such a way that it is formulated more specifically. So far, it was worded in general terms. And the Commission considered it necessary to make it clear that, when providing media services, the service provided must not incite to hatred, violence or discrimination if it poses a threat to life, health or property. It should also be noted here that the Ministry of Culture did not prefer the amendment of the Committee on Culture, let us say so. However, as legislator, the commission took the amendment fully into account, with 8 members in favour, 2 abstentions, and one, and we also appoint him, Mr Odines, opposed this amendment. The seventh amendment was also tabled by the Isamaa Group. Its content was the same, but it concerned § 191 of the [Law]. The Ministry of Culture decided not to take this into account, but again it was for this very reason that the same amendment concerning the provision was made by the Isamaa Group itself. So that's the eighth suggestion. All these arguments were the same and the positions remained the same in all respects. The Ministry of Culture also maintained its position, but the legislator's commission exercised its right and took full account of this amendment. And the vote again had the same results as the previous amendment. Now, the ninth amendment was tabled by members of the Conservative People's Party Group. It was editorial and the Committee on Culture considered it to be at least partially accounted for if the following proposal of the Committee on Culture was taken into account. The following proposal of the Committee on Culture, which was editorial, was taken into account. Again, I exercise my right not to read it to you, thinking that you do not want to hear it. Amendment 11 was of the Socialist type and adds the term "description translation" to the list of possible measures by the audiovisual media service provider to make the service accessible to people with disabilities, which is an important measure for people with visual difficulties to improve accessibility. This was not in the original text of the draft. In fact, on 6 May this proposal was presented by Jakob Rosin in the Committee on Culture. This amendment was fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 12 was based on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture, according to which the holder of the temporary television licence should not draw up an accessibility action plan. And that's right: holder of a temporary television licence. This amendment was fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. We come to Amendment 13, it was also tabled by the Social Democrats, and I believe it was editorial too. The Committee on Culture decided that Amendment 13 was taken into account in substance if Amendment 14 of the Committee on Culture was taken into account. The last push from the above-mentioned amendment, but it also slightly changed the content. The wording of the draft law was amended in such a way that the Regulation lays down, inter alia, the requirements and deadlines for the execution of programmes in Estonian with subtitles and with sign language and descriptive translations. In the original text of the draft, the word "or" was replaced by the word "and" or alternatives. So look at how much content can change with a little word of communication. This amendment was fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 15 had been tabled by three members of the EKRE Group and it wished to provide for the temporary authorisation of the provision of television and radio services for a maximum period of three months. Until then, it's up to one month. The Committee on Culture decided that this amendment was well taken into account in substance if the next amendment to the Committee on Culture, Amendment 16, was taken into account. And that's exactly how it remained. Just the difference is that the Committee on Culture reworded it for linguistic and technical reasons. In essence, it was proposed by the members of the EKRE Group. We have come to Amendment 17; it was a proposal from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. A very serious proposal was made here: according to this, the Media Services Act was complemented by a new point, according to which the application for a licence will be accompanied by an accessibility action plan. The Committee on Culture, once again, according to its usual practice, as is the case with this draft, decided that this amendment was taken into account in substance when taking into account Amendment 19 of the Committee on Culture. And they did. Now, Amendment 18. Yes, Amendment 18 comes before Amendment 19. It was submitted by Jüri Jaanson, a member of the Riigikogu, and it was essentially analogous to the previous proposal. As explained in the amendment, such a change would allow an assessment of the applicant's readiness and plan. The Ministry of Culture supported the amendment but proposed that the wording be amended to take account of its application to television licence applicants and on-demand audiovisual media service providers. For its part, the Committee on Culture decided that these two previous amendments had been taken into account in substance in the light of Amendment 19 of the Committee on Culture, which summarised the two previous amendments. And the Committee on Culture took full account of it. The 20th amendment had been tabled by the members of the EKRE Group and was editorial. The Committee on Culture redrafted it and took it into account in substance. It stipulated that a public competition would be launched for the issue of a radio licence. That's right, not just a competition, but a public competition. This amendment was fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 22 was based on the proposal of the Ministry of Culture; it was editorial and was fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 23 also belongs to the Committee on Culture, which is based on the corresponding proposal of the Ministry of Culture and is editorial, so the commission took this fully into account. So, Amendment 24 is the Committee on Culture and is based on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture, is editorial and, of course, when it was the Committee on Culture, it was fully taken into account. Approaching the finish line, Amendment 25 came from Mr Jaanson. It proposed to delete from the draft a provision stating that more precise requirements regarding the accessibility of audiovisual media services, including the accessibility of subtitled Estonian-language programmes and the minimum volume of signed or descriptive programmes and audio-subtitled programmes in the programme or programme catalogue, and the requirements on the selectivity of subtitles and sound subtitles, and the deadlines for their execution, will be laid down by regulation of the Minister in charge of the field. And it will enter into force on January 1, 2025. So it was in the bill. The initiators of the draft now justified this by a study, a survey of the disabled, which will be completed as written by the initiators of the draft at the latest in 2024. The author of the amendment, Jüri Jaanson, explained that this provision should enter into force with the remaining amendments, as there is a need for a regulation today. The Ministry of Culture explained to the Committee on Culture that, when these proposed changes enter into force, the Ministry of Culture was obliged to carry out this analysis in 2024 at the latest. In fact, according to the following amendment, it turns out that in 2025. However, these provisions cannot be introduced in the past. The Ministry of Culture did not agree that the date and basis of entry into force of the Regulation were unclear. Now, unfortunately, the Committee on Culture rejected this amendment. Amendment 2 was in favour, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits and Üllar Saaremäe were against. And Amendment 26 - this is the last one - relates to the entry into force and implementation of the law. Unfortunately, right, this law has been dealt with for a long time and the original dates concerning the entry into force and implementation of the law were no longer possible. The mandate rule was also amended and the deadline for the ex-post evaluation was postponed. This amendment was fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. In conclusion, the Committee on Culture decided on 7 February, i.e. the day before yesterday, to submit a draft for the second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 9 February and to propose that the second reading be stopped. Two people abstained on this proposal, namely Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits and Üllar Saaremäe, and one against, Mr Odines, the other members of the committee were in favour. Thank you. I think I did it very accurately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U269	17 seconds left, you want to use it? No, I'm fine. Mr. Koka has a procedural question before we can go to the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U270	Yeah, thanks! Let me get this straight, Jaak, from your last sentences that the day before yesterday the Commission decided that this was on the agenda today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U271	You got it right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U272	On this point, I have a question: how can it be on the weekly agenda when the agenda was adopted on Monday? You proposed on Monday, by which time the agenda had been sent out a long time ago. We didn't make any changes to the agenda on Monday. Then at three o'clock there should have been a proposal that should have been changed [in the order of the day]. How could the Commission send a paper to the Riigikogu Board that this item is on the agenda today when the Commission took this decision on Monday?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U273	I believe that this is a very relevant question, but I am not a very hard hand to answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U274	We'll check it out right away, Mr. Chef. Mr. White, that's not a question for you. This is the procedural question that comes to the manager. But it's okay. We'll try to get through this together. We are about to clarify this, but my initial knowledge says that the Commission made a request to put it on the agenda as early as last week. And there is nothing out of the ordinary when the Commission reviews the materials on Monday, Mr Cook. This happens in all committees that the committees are still discussing the Wednesday agendas this week. But we'll go over that if you want. However, I understand that this is the way we got into a joyful procession again. Mr. Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U275	Thank you. I hope I don't get into a debate, I just have a more specific question. I agree that the President will clarify this, even though he said that was the intention. We don't work here on the basis of intentions. We are still working on the basis of the proposals of the committees coming from the Home and Working Procedures Act. So it really is a request to look. If the Commission's decision has not now come as foreseen in the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, then we will have gone into trouble with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act if we are discussing it today. Perhaps it is now clear that the Commission has only taken a decision this Monday, but then it could not be that, at the end of last week, the Bureau decided on the draft agenda and sent it out. Indeed, there is a need for clarification on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U276	I'm sure we can figure this out. We have the chairman of the committee here as well, but we will clarify that. But I will say once again that it cannot be ruled out that the Commission has requested that it be put on the agenda and then, on Monday, it has gone further. For example, if on Monday the Commission had decided that it did not want to discuss it on Wednesday, that there was something else open, then it would have been possible to exclude this item from the agenda on Monday at the request of the Commission. Does Mr. Koka still have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U277	I simply state that the Commission representative confirmed that the Commission took decisions on Monday. He never said that the Commission had taken that decision before. It's just that I had a question, or else I wouldn't have had that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U278	And we reviewed, we specified: a letter has come from the Commission to the Riigikogu Board to put this item on the agenda on 27 January. Mr. Chef, what else is crazy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U279	If you have received this letter, there must also be a Commission decision, a decision in the minutes, that it will be on the agenda on Wednesday. That vote was supposed to be off first.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U280	Yeah, it was. So, we got this little detail straightened out. And now we can go to the questions. Mr. Chef can ask a substantive question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U281	Good manager! Good Jack! Did you also have a debate in the Commission, for example, on the topics of the Estonian Television, which are currently covered by the Olympic Games? For example, we are watching biathlon and football, but for example, we have never seen speed skating or doubles in winter sports in Estonia. We give money to Estonian broadcasting, but we cannot actually see the events and results of top athletes in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U282	I'm not really a sports fan myself, and I'm not gonna rule out that there was some point-to-point talk about it. However, this is nine meetings of the Commission since last spring and I am not able to refer to it now even if it was mentioned in detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U283	Well, now it's Üllar Saaremäe's turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U284	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Thank you very much for the thorough and meaningful overview that happened during all these meetings. My question, I think, is the interest of many who are watching us now or later reading the verbatim. As we know, over 223 amendments were tabled by the ECR, 219 of which were withdrawn, reaching a certain compromise. Why don't you be so kind as to explain what this compromise was about? What makes this law [the bill] better now because of this compromise?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U285	EKRE was disturbed by three questions about this draft. Actually, it was more disturbing, but we raised three questions. These were the wording of § 19 (1) of the draft, the wording of § 191, i.e. that supervision will be carried out by an institution that is under the direct authority of the European Commission and bypassing the Estonian institutions, and the third question was that the draft [appropriately] will establish media literacy [promotion]. There is nothing against the promotion of media literacy in itself, but the content of the media competence to promote was unclear to us. As a result of long discussions, we then reworded [amendments] concerning § 19 (1) and § 191. As a result, there is no expansion of the meaning of hate speech, which we were concerned about and which was actually concerned about by the Fatherland Party, but by other methods. And we found that, in the meantime, we have been informed of the competence of the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, which we can accept. And it has also been explained to us that the content of media literacy is not something that we should be individually concerned about. In that case, we agreed to abandon our two requests, unless the concept of hate speech was extended. And with the wording of these provisions, we achieved this, and the Committee on Culture approved it. I hope the answer is exhaustive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U286	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U287	Thank you. Good colleague! However, I would like to clarify the wording of the same compromise proposal. There is a clause that provides an opportunity to interpret this provision in such a way that, if there is no immediate threat to health, life and property, anger, hatred and discrimination can be encouraged. Does it seem normal to you that we allow media service providers by this law to engage in incitement, which in many people still gives rise to a feeling that we do not want any of our fellow citizens to know? Or in the Commission's view, or in your opinion, am I misinterpreting this provision?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U288	I will reply by saying that so far we have not had any problems with incitement to hatred in the media, and this has been noted by the Authority at meetings of the Commission. In addition, the Republic of Estonia also has other laws that limit incitement to hatred and discrimination, as a contrast point. And I will also say this, following the minutes of the Committee on Culture, that the message of the Minister for the Interior was such that the wording of this provision does not interfere with his work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U289	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U290	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question comes about Amendment 25, tabled by my good colleague Jüri Jaanson. I did not understand the reason for not taking this amendment into account. I'd like you to go over it for a second. This concerns access to audiovisual media services for persons with disabilities. I understand that the proposal was to bring it to an earlier stage, but the Commission has realised that it is not a burning problem and that it must be done sometime later. Why don't you tell me again what the problem is and why it was neglected in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U291	Yeah, I'll try to find it. Of course, you can do it yourself, it's all in public records. However, the Ministry of Culture considered that it was necessary to carry out this disability study before it was done. Originally, this study was scheduled for 2024, but it will take place a year later. And the Ministry of Culture found that, based on the results of this study, it is possible to see more precisely what changes need to be made. There may still be some corrections to be made as a result of this analysis. At least that's what I understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U292	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U293	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Indeed, I am talking about the same subject here, and I see that here [in comment] 26.4 is that the Ministry of Culture justifies this postponement with reasonableness. They're doing a double assessment. In the Committee on Culture, did the Ministry of Culture also state the reasons on which this reasonableness is based when its activities are postponed? Such a convenient course of action, people's real expectations are ignored.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U294	Again, I am not sure that I remember every phrase that the Ministry of Culture said, but I think I remember the content of this recital and it was just such that this is the capacity of resources to carry out an analysis in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U295	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U296	Good manager! Good waitress! Here the draft law amending the Media Services Act talks a great deal about television and radio service licences, media services and programmes and everything else. Is there any way that it is possible to do all this on social media today, whether on Facebook or somewhere else? You can broadcast, everyone has a chance to access. Does it affect it, too, or does it only talk about traditional radio and television?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U297	It still affects video platforms, such as Postimees TV or Delfi TV, and also affects Facebook or, say, deals with it. But in principle it is [amendment of law], that law exists first. These conditions will now be clarified. And one of the most important things, as I said for the start, is that it improves access to the media for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U298	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U299	Thank you. I come back to this subject, which, according to my interpretation, allows media services to encourage hatred, hatred and discrimination. You mentioned that there are other laws in the Republic of Estonia that protect people from hatred and hatred and discrimination and incitement to it. Could you be more specific about the laws that protect against it? So that we know where people can turn if they see anger being aroused in some media, such as TV shows, and do not want to be harmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U300	Well, that's the way I can call the Penal Code, but it's the easiest thing for me to answer is that there was no mention of it in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U301	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U302	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question actually relates to § 5. Sorry, not with § 5, but with Amendment 5, which was made by the Isamaa Group and which was disregarded. Was there a debate on this, and if it was not taken into account, what were these compelling arguments from the other members of the Commission? The aim of our proposal was to stop restricting freedom of expression. What's really on the sieve? Why did the other Members of the Commission not support this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U303	Well, we didn't discuss it very much. But the principle was that, as the Commission's own proposal achieves the same result, we left the Fatherland aside in itself a welcome proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U304	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U305	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Did you discuss in the Commission such a discriminatory form of the joint media [in relation to], such as a factual check? Today it is very easy, if you still don't like the opinion of the opponent, then there is an opportunity to press [stop] in the common media and demand this so-called fact check. Was it a matter of discussion or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U306	This is a very interesting theme statement and certainly the fact-control activity is actually an important issue, but it is not a matter of this draft. Perhaps if the fact check is actually working against itself, it may come into contact with it, but it is hardly about incitement to hatred or discrimination.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U307	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U308	Thank you very much. I will come back once again to this issue, to Amendments 25 and 26. They concern access to audiovisual services for persons with disabilities. [Comment] 26.4 justifies a postponement of [Entry] by the fact that the law enters into force one year later and accordingly audiovisual [Services] companies should submit an Accessibility Action Plan one year later. And there's a kind of reasonable delay. I just want to ask whether it was explained how, in the opinion of the representatives of the Ministry of Culture, this postponement of activities has been linked to the later entry into force of the law. And what gives you the guarantee that it won't be postponed again at any time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U309	Well, the last question is easy to answer. The guarantee is that if we adopt this draft as a law and establish these dates, it will no longer be so easy to change it. So, what's the reason? Let's just say that the Commission trusted the Ministry of Culture's opinion on this or the Ministry of Culture's message that they will deal with it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U310	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U311	Honourable Member of the Committee on Culture. I have several questions at once. The first thing I want to do is sort it out. You said that this so-called compromise is in line with the proposal of the Fatherland. However, if it were coordinated, there would also be evidence that part or essence of the amendment of the Fatherland was also taken into account. But it doesn't stand there. I therefore conclude that our amendment is still different and therefore was not taken into account by the Committee on Culture in the first place. Secondly, one philosophical question for you. If we transpose the directive, what, according to your logic, is ultimately more important to us in the legal system? In this case, the conflict was, in fact, either the Estonian Code or the transposition of the European Directive. At the moment, your compromise proposal actually falls between the two. What is your prognosis as a processer, did we comply with the rules when we transposed the directive or did we not actually comply?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U312	Thank you. I did say that both of these amendments had the same content or that they had the same purpose. Since they were made in a [different] way, the proposal of the Fatherland was simply to maintain the corresponding provision of the current Media Services Act, but the compromise proposal was to amend it and to formulate it differently, I believe that it was not possible to write it down that it had been taken into account in substance. You and I will understand that this has been taken into account in substance. Now, purely philosophically, should the existing European Union directives prevail or our laws? Well, the most positive response should be that it is good if the European Union's directives are compatible with our wishes to make changes. If they are not appropriate, if they threaten freedom of expression or anything else that is important to us, then we have good officials who should negotiate and request changes or differences and thus resolve these issues. If the issues are not resolved in this way and this is a fundamental problem for us, I would say that freedoms are not traded.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U313	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U314	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You enlightened the compromise, my last question. Can you say that? As we know, the Ministry did not agree very much with this compromise, but the Commission voted in it, which shows, to our satisfaction, that the Riigikogu is not a rubber stamp. But perhaps you can tell us how it has been in other Member States. What problems have arisen there, and how have these situations or disagreements been resolved? Do you have an overview?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U315	I do not have an overview of the course of discussions in other countries. However, I do have an overview of how this directive has been transposed in other countries. The Commission asked for this review, and the answer is that the transposition of this directive has taken place in very different ways. If you want, I can read to you how, for example, it was taken over in Lithuania, it is quite far from the original text of our draft or how it was taken over in Hungary. The answer is this: I do not know the course of the discussion, and I do not know whether or not it caused major bubbles in other countries. But I see that the transposition of the directive has been very, very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U316	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U317	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to come to Amendment 25, which has been dealt with repeatedly and has been tabled by Mr Jaanson. I am reading this explanation why this has not been taken into account: the Ministry of Culture considers that an optimal balance has now been found in the draft between the interests of all parties involved and so on. Now the question: was the organisation of the disabled involved? Did they also go to the Commission to find this balance? How was the achievement of the balance that the Ministry of Culture refers to here? I think this is a very important nuance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U318	Getting the balance is really... In this case, if there is something vague, it must always be said that this is a so-called philosophical problem of how to achieve a balance. However, I can say that representatives of people with disabilities went to the Commission to present their problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U319	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U320	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! After all, it is nice to be combated against discrimination. But [what] if combating discrimination in turn leads to new discrimination? Was there a debate in the Commission that perhaps any such situations could be discredited? At this point in time, we hear an arrogant response from the Ministry of Culture that we will come to this issue of disability proposals only in 2024 or 2025. The directive is urgent, but we still discriminate against other people in this regard. Not to mention what I was saying here, isn't it? If the fact check turns out to be incompetent, the person is still discriminated against, for 30 days he's been removed from the joint media.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U321	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for creating this term. Dediscrimination could find more use in our political use of words in the future. However, on the basis of this term, there was no discussion in the Committee on Culture on the draft amendment to the Media Services Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U322	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U323	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, This [amendment of laws] is, of course, much wider than the debate that has now taken place in the form of questions in this Chamber. We are not talking here about the rapid development that is essential to the media sector, which will be operational immediately, or about cross-border media services and other things. But my question focuses or wants to sum up one of the [themes] that has been going through here several times today. I'm asking you if my claims are true. Here it is asked why a new law is needed in this form, as if all the [relevant] norms exist in Estonian law and Estonia has ratified the convention. Am I right when I say that when transposing this directive, there is an obligation to indicate in which national rules these provisions of the directive are in and the provisions that correspond exactly to the specific provision of the directive are not in Estonian law at the moment? In Estonia, these principles stem from several international treaties and even the constitutions, but no precept can be made on this basis at the moment. There must be a clear legal basis for this. This draft extends the wording of the provision in the Media Services Act. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The second, if Estonia wishes to actually prevent incitement to violence and hatred...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U324	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U325	...then there must be a legal basis. Are my claims true?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U326	It seems to me that, if you have already undertaken so thoroughly to formulate these statements, you would hardly want to make false statements. And I don't think you'd want to fool me in any way. So the answer is yes, these claims are true.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U327	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U328	Thank you. I would, however, continue to conclude on this issue of people with disabilities. I have also read the minutes and listened to these questions, and this protocol states that the Ministry of Culture has stated in its written comment that it does not consider it reasonable to impose such so-called extensive requirements on media service providers as overnight. Have you talked about what it would bring overnight? What financial obligations or what are we talking about? We speak in the same way as a study that should be examined, but the other way around, let's say that a very big problem is what needs to be solved. I will inevitably not understand from this discussion that we should lend a helping hand to people with disabilities, but, on the other hand, rather, I get the impression that we are putting this problem off, because it is so big that we do not want to deal with it now. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U329	Yes, I very much agree with you that a helping hand should be provided for people with disabilities. However, media service providers should be prepared for this and the state should have a knowledge of what is possible and what is not possible. I understand the Ministry of Culture has such reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U330	Good Mr. White, no further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Jüri Jaanson starts, please! Second reading, every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to perform.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U331	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! Yes, it is a subject in which I will inevitably have to speak. These paragraphs of the draft amendment to the Media Services Act or, rather, § 6 (2) of the draft law have now disappeared, but its content has not been lost. This issue, which concerns the availability of audiovisual services for people with special needs, especially people with sensory impairments, hearing impairments, accessibility, is an issue that is constantly being delayed. When this draft came in, it linked the accessibility of audiovisual services to the necessary study, which, when this law came into force, was to follow the accessibility action plan that businesses should submit. It's being postponed all the time. Why this is done is explained here by sensible action. But let's see what the real situation is. This is a subject that has been discussed for years. Here I can set an example for Estonian National Broadcasting, which, on the basis of the project, has long since begun to create the possibility of subtitles for hearing impaired people. If we included audiovisual service providers based on private capital in the Media Services Act, some requirements would also be imposed on them to ensure that these programmes are accessible, but it seems that the subject does not want to reach them in any way, and the Ministry of Culture is holding a very loose hand in this respect. Why, I don't understand that very well. I would remind you that it was originally set here by the deadline of the studies of 2024, then it was pushed to 2025, and now the law is being enforced by 2026. And that's how these things go on and on and on. But 2023, for example, we have another song and dance. Last time Estonian Public Broadcasting very much made a project-based transmission with sign language, made it with subtitles. That was good, that was good. The question is why, next time, all this needs to be done on a project basis. When will the system work in such a way that it is understood that these people are actually part of our society and would like to be part of it? So I myself cannot be satisfied with either the Ministry of Culture or the Committee on Culture. I am very grateful to those members of the Committee on Culture who voted in favour of it. In conclusion, however, I believe that the entry into force of paragraphs 44 and 45 of the [amendment of the Act] Bill on Media Services should be decoupled from the carrying out of this study and put into effect sooner rather than later than 2025. So I will put my amendment to the vote and hope that maybe this will help the Ministry of Culture to speed up this process a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U332	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U333	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Hää Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to stress that this is a very welcome law. Indeed, it is high time for Estonia to transpose the European Union Audiovisual Media Services Directive. The most important freedoms of a democratic society are freedom of expression and media freedom closely linked to it. The word is, as we know, free. At the same time, we often forget that freedom is always accompanied by responsibility, responsibility not to humiliate another person, responsibility not to call for violence. Estonia is the world leader in the press freedom ranking; we can really be proud of it. So far, we have not restricted the free distribution of the media, which, unfortunately, contain statements against the Estonian state almost every day. Today's increasingly acute security situation will cause us to review our attitude to date. This Act and related European law provide that where a media channel is detrimental to the health of the population or to the safety of society, including national security, defence, the Office for Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance may issue a prescription for the cessation of the retransmission of the audiovisual media service to the re-presenter. Media expert Raul Rebane has paid attention to the fact that TV channels that spread anti-Estonian statements and destroy the cohesion of our society are available to everyone today without money, free of charge. First of all, the view of such channels must be made paid in Estonia as a matter of urgency, and at some point further consideration must also be given to ending the activities of these channels or limiting their distribution on the territory of Estonia. In this respect, it is also very important that the clear requirement in the new law that the circle of actual owners of the media should be public and known to all. Furthermore, the Social Democrats have also tabled a few amendments to this draft, which would further increase access to media services for disabled people. Fortunately, the Commission has also supported them. But in any case, it is high time we had this very necessary European right to enforce in Estonia, because the information society in rapid change is increasingly affecting our lives, and precise European rules on fair play are very necessary here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U334	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U335	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people who follow us over the Internet, and some who sent you to read verbatim! Maybe one day [we'll get to the point] that the verbatim is going to go on with the speech robot. There are now many popular podcasts, people listening to them for two hours, one or two people, warm air and a lot of complicated things Whoever's gonna suffer me, imagine, here's eight minutes. So I don't discriminate against you. The fact that we have now started to reduce discrimination in the media gives rise to any new discrimination. And that is a fact in itself. This new term or term, dediscrimination, we must always look at whatever laws we adopt so that they do not cripple or worsen the situation of anyone. This is, of course, a drastic example of how Jüri Jaanson, at this point, was sent for a long time by the Ministry of Culture, giving the answer, is that 2024 we are going to look at it and do it [then]. Another common [reply] is that the Ministry already has a draft to this effect in preparation. And you can say that all the time. Now that we have a chance to improve this situation here, we will not fix it. Because we have people with disabilities exactly, extremely selectively necessary and unnecessary. In one way, we are stressing that with this bill we are improving the situation of people with disabilities, but I would like to mention, for example, the obligation to push snow from local authorities. We are not talking at all about how people with disabilities should be able to pass these pavements that belong to Tallinn or, say, to the local government. This obligation, the burden is placed on the landlords. In my opinion, discrimination is quite a matter of our previous item, that it was in this format for the first time. And we were chopping, based on old dogmas, when we were discussing some stupid development plans. Now there was a strategic approach to what we had planned. Can you imagine that in 2020, we would have had a minister come here in February and said what we had planned, and then, look at the miracle, we had COVID and everything went [others]. This means that he should have his word in the autumn to say why we did not get these strategic plans [implemented]. This, in turn, means one of the good flea circuses that may well be promoted by today's coalition. The idea of a political statement is already devalued, if anyone wants to say anything, they say I have a political statement. What's it like? Well, there's just that I get a chance at the remote control [go]. Please note that in the autumn there will be political statements every week, reports on [that] the previous governments have all done badly and that is why today's government can do nothing. The transposition of [political statement] in this format is in fact discrimination against the opposition of the Riigikogu. If we had wanted to initiate a new format, we could have opened a debate on whether [all] ambassadors could speak or only five elected people. We could actually do [so], I have an extremely agile proposal to make these ministers [present] to Saku Suurhall. Well, they just want to enjoy the auditorium. We'll send five of our chosen fighters there to listen and then let them heat up in a row. There is no need for questions, because as we know, the respondent is in fact free to answer or not. Now, coming back to the fact that we're finding everything [in case of something] to muzzle people. One of them is now some kind of COVID fact check. Maybe when you're talking about a disease or something else, you can even shrug your shoulders or you can tell and take the facts, it's too late, 30 days later, now there's some kind of fact check on the joint media. Not to mention any other tricks. But, of course, no matter what the various groups propose, the Ministry of Culture says, [based on] its own world-view faith, which has somehow tended to be a little pink, that their work is smart, not work. Work at the Ministry of Culture! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U336	Thank you very much. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U337	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not on the Committee on Culture, but I remember it was April 7, 2021. I was, like many of you on TV, as they say in the country. And Anneli Ott was then a minister and was here instead of me [in the remote]. And they said some interesting things. I remember what Mr Lotman said. He said this: it is a cancellation culture at national level. During the election campaign, you will say something about your opponent, it will be interpreted as hate speech, and the channel will be shut down. After the elections, the court decides that this really did not have to be done. And Mr Lotman says that if we do not approve of this draft, we will only be left out with Romania. But what if we stand for the right thing and oppose the wrong thing, we can also be with Romania. Well, that's one detail. Jaak, my colleague White, was here and he spoke. When I asked him, [he replied] that it is not really a question of whether or not to transpose this directive and, if so, whether it is in the form that it has been presented to us or whether we reject it. In fact, there is also a third option on how to transpose the directive, [he said]. It was April 7, 2021. Many feared the corona like the devil's lightning, and we sat many farther away. You see, with the directives, you remember, it's always about taking over right now. It was only we who had the so-called Boundary Dutch sailor's directive, on which a colleague who did not sit on the back, Mr Akkermann, said that he had not seen such a meaningless bill or directive, it is so theoretical, but if we do not accept it, then the Dutch or Nigerian sailor will not be able to get on the Piirissaare line. Well, very low probability, but the directive demands. And he couldn't tell me what that ticket was going to be if we didn't take over, and in time. We adopted this directive, a completely meaningless directive in Estonia, but we adopted it. After all, we have this basic fear, at least for many, or at least for me at first, that the directive is such a sacred cow or animal that it must be allowed to enter the door immediately and at the right time, because otherwise it will be... And we have those directives that are waiting for entry through the door, and there is fear that there will be a fine. The Honorable Minister of Justice was here one night, remember? And the background is that the ax has already risen, but we haven't even reached the second reading yet. You know what I'm talking about. I felt sorry for the Minister of Justice, he sat here and there was nothing to do, he had to sell the kind of goods that, to be honest, I could tell you were out of date, but what to do. This Directive should have entered into force on 1 May 2021. Today is what year? It will soon be 1 May 2022. And now that I'm reading this new version, which the Committee on Culture has been working a lot on, the deadline is 1 January 2026. It's been like five years! There's no fear that the fine in Brussels will come, that interest will run out and so on. Colleagues, that's the way it should work, it seems to me. What are we afraid of? I repeat, I am not a member of the Committee on Culture, but two of our esteemed colleagues, who are like a dog and a cat, could say, in terms of names, black and white, have worked very well. You can't see the treasure here... It is, oh! So, actually, if there are intelligent people, I think it's possible to get it right. I don't know how other countries have been...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U338	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U339	Yeah, a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U340	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U341	I'd like to be on a positive note. At the moment, it seems to me that we have come very, very far from this directive on the Dutch sailor of Piirissaare and in a situation that could actually be. These directives into directives, we could reasonably discuss them and, if necessary, reject them. I was here watching how many meetings had been held. The Committee on Culture has been working very hard: nine meetings of the Commission, if I remember correctly. Well, you can't deny it, but after April the EKRE submitted over 200 suggestions for improvement. But the dialogue must run, and at least right now, I have a positive mood. So Black and White can work peacefully, I guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U342	Thank you very much. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U343	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike the previous speaker, I do not have the same good feelings when looking at this table of amendments. I am concerned by § 19 and 191, both paragraphs 1, on which I have also asked questions, which the Commission's rapporteur called a compromise and which he obviously considers to be a very big job win. The chairman of the committee would probably consider this to be a very big job. Maybe the same cat and dog that was mentioned in the previous speech. Several hundred proposals were eliminated with one additional clause in this draft law. Somehow this cannot be accepted, and it is indeed very unfortunate that the Reform Party and the Centre Party have found a common language on this issue with the Conservative People's Party, and the Social Democrats were the only ones in the Commission who voted against it. This is the same about incitement to hatred, hatred and discrimination. The directive is very clear and the documents of the European Union at all prohibit any form of discrimination, any form of incitement to hatred and hatred without any clause. The Republic of Estonia, however, is so at the forefront of this law that it puts an additional clause here that it is prohibited if it poses a direct threat to life, property and health. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats, including myself, do not regard this as a good solution in any way. Now, tell me whatever happens in the media, in the radio, in the TV, anywhere, in the old news, or in other programs. The Minister of the Interior here assured the members of the Commission that there were no problems with the view of the police forces. Of course it is not, because the Penal Code does not currently punish you if you incite hatred, anger and discrimination, but it is not as if there is a direct threat. To say that all Russian native members of the Riigikogu oven, it's okay. If you say Odines, it's not okay. You can't pass such laws. We must not allow any discrimination, any hatred, any hatred in the territory of our Republic, in our media. And I really cannot be proud as a Member of this House that a great victory and a great compromise have been achieved. The Ministry of Culture has repeatedly confirmed that such a solution will not work. Yes, of course, it can also be said that Parliament is not a rubber stamp, but it is not a place to brag about it. The common values of Europe are such that, by any feature, we must not treat any group, any part of society, as we plan to treat in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you not to support Amendments 6 and 8. I hope someone puts them to the vote. Some of these groups might still be in this room. And I still call for a decisive and unambiguous response to any attempt in the media to direct hatred, hatred and discrimination against someone. Ladies and gentlemen, no incitement, no violence, no hatred, no discrimination! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U344	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U345	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that, just as this law deals with the subject of media literacy and source criticism, then, ladies and gentlemen, we too must distinguish between things that are important in this law and things that are wanted to be made important by force, even though they are not, or have been explained, for example, in the Estonian Constitution. The main content and focus of the amendments to these laws is much more than the places that were amplified in this Chamber. The scope of the directive is extremely high. Firstly, we must realise that we have done a disservice to the Estonian media sector and its development if we have failed to update this legislation as the only Member State. Yes, there have been countries here today that are stuck with it. We are indeed among the latter, and we do not want to have tragic consequences. We would not want the area to remain within the framework of old cumbersome rules. We do not want us to be able to take into account the rapid development of digital content services; we do not want to prevent this. We would not want us to be isolated by ourselves, because if we did not change the laws, we would have different rules than [other] in the European Union. We would not want us to become an obstacle to the cross-border coverage of audiovisual media services, as well as of new digital platforms, in other parts of Europe, and so on. While all Member States consider it necessary to update their legislation and to continue to align it with the rules in force throughout the European Union, there have also been relevant changes in content according to national culture. Secondly, it is important to remember that the improvements listed in this directive were agreed in the European Union to renew the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, especially during the Estonian Presidency in 2017. So when we think about where we are today and how long it has been, it is high time we moved forward quickly with this directive, and I am glad that we have been able to introduce here amendments that are unique to our country. Our media sector is looking forward to this amendment of the law, which is a fact to operate on an equal footing. These new platforms have so far been unregulated and provide many new opportunities for successful action, as well as for the development of the Estonian media sector, including greater flexibility in advertising restrictions, protection of minors, better access to services for people with disabilities. That's all. I would ask for support for those amendments that have already received support in the Committee on Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U346	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U347	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I will continue to focus on the issue of people with disabilities. In fact, I may be ahead of events, I have reached the next item on the draft law 519. This is a first reading, where the Minister for Social Protection will present this draft and the member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will defend it and also introduce it. The name of this bill is the draft law amending the Act on Equal Treatment and the Law on Churches and Congregations. I have a request that you open page 28 of this Media Services Act. It contains [point] 6.1.4 concerning people with disabilities, restrictions of activity and health problems. This is now a law by which we actually state clearly that, in the case of people with disabilities, we stress that, above all, human rights must be guaranteed to disabled people on an equal footing with others. And within the meaning of the Convention, disability results from barriers in society that prevent people from coping with health problems in their daily lives, and their elimination enables people with disabilities to enjoy equal opportunities and the protection of equal rights. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about this because we often work here on a draft basis. One bill ends and it is as if the new world begins with its glass ceilings and walls. But I think that Parliament's role is actually to give society guidance in some area, and only then could we start talking about the fact that we are investigating, we are analysing, how much it will cost to take over within a reasonable period of time, and what Parliament has actually envisaged and proposed in the legislative process. I find it rather strange that we in Parliament are once again reaching, as in the course of discussions, what is the purpose of our work. The aim of the work is that we do not exactly record it in the law today because we must first do some analysis and study of how much this could cost. And by another, by the next law, we are very clear that these people must be treated equally. How do we do that? Why do we make these laws if we fail to implement them in the collection? Indeed, one could call it all that you see, now a place for disabled people was found to trample it and find cheap popularity. But I'm sorry, these people are part of society. We are just coming by one law to say that they need to be dealt with, and if there is a place to be dealt with, that people are in the same information room, then we say, hey, no-no, let the officials first investigate, analyze, and then we're just starting to set something up in the legal room. Very sad! I think such nuances should be avoided if we can. If it fails to comply with [the law], Parliament will always have the right to invite the persons concerned to this Chamber at the head of the minister and to ask why this provision of the area of justice has not been complied with. What's the problem? Hasn't there been money, hasn't had the will, hasn't had enough time or field specialists? But not doing so and, at the same time, going over to the next legislation to so-called perpetuate it and to give these people confidence is unfortunately petty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U348	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U349	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is indeed an interesting draft and, as has been said, a lot of work has been done. But I would like to start where the good colleague Metsoja ended up: that we tend to have a bill-based living. And I fully agree that the Riigikogu does not create, writes one law, but deals with legislation where one thing ends with another, not that one thought fights another even when the legislation is ready. And that if we have a code, as they say, there's more than enough lawyers to deal with each other. The same thing must be emphasised in this law. Well, it is indeed a Euro Directive that is mandatory for its members to adopt in the European Union. It is not quite the same as Hansa [The Union] in times where Hanserezess was compulsory only for those who voted in favour. It was such a beautiful time, of course. And today, too, we are talking about precisely those things that do not need to find a final solution and development in the Media Directive. When we were talking about Jüri Jaanson's amendment [proposal], here we have a little information glitch or some kind of information gap. In fact, together with Jüri Jaanson, we have also discussed how to move forward with these things really a little more widely than could be done in the Media Directive. Maybe we should have found this place, but maybe we shouldn't. Another thing that is a problem in every parliament: there are always people of ideas who say that the idea is more important than life. However, every bill also looks at its applicability, timeliness, and weep or laugh, but the point is that we are not ready for some things, but for some things we are overripe, some of them seem like a childish thing to us. I would like to recall even the same debate we had on the so-called law of snitching. When I talk to a Swedish colleague about this, he says that your people do not want to protect your country, how you do not understand that there are a whole series of situations where your country must be protected. And when I say to him, "But in Estonia..." he will shut up and say, "No, no, I already know, Estonia has been under foreign rule for so long, that every complaint here is like cooperation with the occupier. " And so on and so forth. And the Swede himself, without letting me answer, already explains to me that in every country, things must be done in such a way that it is acceptable, understandable, clear to this society. Never should noble principles be adopted that no one is able to put into practice in this form. Sometimes you gotta go step-by-step. Dear friends, especially forest men, you know that all nature is an evolving organism. By the way, legislation is something that develops, grows, becomes more perfect. What was very good about this today in 1993 is, let's say, listen, it's old, it's obsolete. And that's natural. So the Media Directive is also a link in our legislation. I am simply reacting a little to the previous speeches here, and it was also a response to the previous one. And there was one other thing where I am, surprise-surprisingly, Peter Ernits and I sometimes argue, but here we agree. There was an amazing amount of cooperation in the Commission, and if there was a problem, whether it was now the proposal of the Fatherland or not the proposal of the Fatherland, how it is with authorship, we have agreed that if authorship is still felt, then it must be said that the proposal is considered in substance, at least to go to it. But frankly, the idea sons of the various members of the Commission have grown together in today's circumstances into a good draft, which tomorrow will find criticism and the day after tomorrow will be trampled underfoot and said who were the enemies of democracy and the deadheads who were at some level of 2021 or 2022 and could not fly higher and further. I propose that these revised amendments be approved and moved forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U350	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U351	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today is such a rather interesting day. If we are now looking at the debate on this law, on the one hand there are criticalities and on the other, who say that a very good [draft] has been discussed very long. When we talk about media services, and especially when we look at the publicly paid media service, it is very clear that all people living in Estonia should be able to consume this media service, regardless of whether they have a special need or a linguistic need. If we have these people in Estonia, we must support them. And I am always disturbed by one answer when it is said that it is not possible to do this, the other or the third, we have not discussed it with the officials. We in committees often hear that we will adopt this law, and then in the future, officials of our ministries will agree on how to proceed with it, when to resolve one, another or third thing. We spoke here earlier, and I also asked the honourable Commission's representative on the sports side that we are actually paying the same amount of money for the transmission and delivery of programmes to Estonian [Nation] broadcasting as the two largest companies on Estonian [private] channels together contribute from their budget to the work of the channel. I certainly don't want to be a judge here, which channels make the best shows, and when they watch them, but I, as a sportsman, and also knowing that the Olympic Games are in progress, raises the question of what kind of programs or programmes are chosen. And I had hoped that during the debate in the Commission on the amendment of such an important law on media services, there would also be talk about such things that if the state were to provide resources, the state and, in particular, the Committee on Culture in the Riigikogu should have answers to many questions. I am sure that the Committee on Culture is very strong in this Chamber. Starting with the chairman of the committee and ending with all its members, they are all experts in this field on the one hand or on the other. I believe that you have much more knowledge than we do here for most of us who are stronger in some other areas. But it's sad to see that if we don't see the accomplishments of our strong players, we have to look somewhere else in the canals, that maybe we'll see somewhere how they can come to medals at the cup stages, or that speed skating comes to the fifth in the big competitions, which is definitely the hardest result of last winter. But in today's speech I also wanted to come to the point that we had the previous point where the Board of the Riigikogu simply decided that on this point each member of the Riigikogu can ask one question and [only] five representatives of the political groups can talk about a very important issue that will be discussed at least 14 more times in this Chamber during this year. So, in theory, we should have this discussion over a week. I really wish the Riigikogu Board would discuss this a little bit. Perhaps all members of the Riigikogu... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U352	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U353	... all members of the Riigikogu discuss these issues. The current issue of education is also, in my opinion, a very important issue in very many regions. We know very well that a municipality with its own upper secondary school is considered to be a normal municipality. Maybe then we've extended the policy that there must be at least one state gymnasium in every county. Every municipality that owns a state gymnasium is either in a good way or in a good way, because the state pays the cost of all this education. And if they don't have a state gymnasium, they'll have teachers' pay from the state, but all the other costs will be borne by the municipality. I am pleased that the Minister agreed with me that it is also necessary to analyse the possibility of making branches to state secondary schools. We have faced situations where, for example, I bring up the Peipsiääre, where the High School was shut down in Kallas and Mustvee is practically in the process of shutting down the upper secondary school. When the school was shut down on the Kallas, the children were brought to Mustvee, the next possibility is that they will go from Mustvee to Tartu. They were talking about student homes. I think I can talk about student homes for the longest time in this hall. In Jõgeva County, we were able to reprimand that we had five student homes, when there were none in Tartu County, because Tartu County did not see this need. But do you know how many state secondary schools there are other student homes? Or how many state secondary schools have sports opportunities, built in a gym? We're saying we're creating better conditions. The Minister said that during the previous regime, the education was done only against the fingers. I don't know. I went to school at the time. I never got hit by a teacher. I respect those teachers, many of whom have already gone to the canals, who taught at the time, very deeply because they gave a good education. Not to mention college. But once again, coming back to the Media Services Act: I really ask the Commission to think that we can always stop second reading. When adopting this law, we would still try to take into account all citizens of Estonia, whether they have special needs or not, and try to introduce them into this law. I'd try not to cross the road and tell them we might do something about 2025. It is now the beginning of 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U354	We've developed a procedure. Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U355	Thank you. Do we have a Monday and a free microphone today? I don't quite know what's going on. I also have a report on the draft 508. Would you like me to come and do it now so I can get home early? How's that today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U356	Maybe now, maybe later, maybe both times. There's a second reading, and every ambassador gets the floor. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U357	Thank you, good vice chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I was motivated by two or maybe three aspects. First of all, indeed, by grasping the last message from Aivar Koka: perhaps it would be worth trying to make sure that our wishes of disabled people find a solution at an early pace. In order to do that, we should really consider how to improve this bill. On the other hand, if it is now consistent [be], I also liked the Aadu Black comparison of forestry that the forest is growing and developing. Indeed, our society is a similarly evolving organism, and one part of it is the law. Legitimate acts, which in this body also have to grow and develop. I also believe that if we can finally transpose these European Union directives in such a way that, as Mr White said, they will not become antagonistic in any way with our laws or with our society, then it is actually good. That is why we should work all the time and try to improve the law. And now that last thing I really came here for. This, too, was opened by a good groupmate, Aivar Cook. This now ties in with the previous item, the good members of the Social Democratic Party Group. I think it is a remarkable precedent that we have created here today in the course of the debate on education and science, or rather in listening to this [presentation]. After all, it was that everyone was able to ask one question and the debate did not come up very much. He got to listen to a monologue. It could have been read somewhere, and it would have been. We have brought a completely new instrument to our desktop, but we are embracing this instrument with completely old tools. Now, here, I think there's a contradiction. And it is very right to draw attention to this even when we are talking about another bill that, by its very nature, is just as likely to be the new instrument. We're creating a new legal space, but if we get stuck in the old [tools], we won't get half an egg again, let alone a whole egg. This is a place of concern, and I think that all of us, including the Riigikogu Board, should think about how, by creating a new legal space, the use of new instruments would be most effective so that the result would be as good as possible. And finally. There are two amendments from the Isamaa Group. They did not find support in the Commission, they said around the corner, that, well, we pretty much counted. So, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you, however, to support these proposals tabled by the Fatherland when it comes to examining the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U358	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U359	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! First of all, I want to say that I am a fiery advocate of the European Union, and I think that being part of the European Union is a very good thing for Estonia in a lot of ways. But not everything is gold that comes from Brussels. And we see a whole series of directives that are harmful to Estonia and Europe as a whole. And, unfortunately, on this directive too, I would say that it is controversial. Some things are here that you can accept, some things don't. My position is diametrically opposite to that of my good colleagues. We are talking about Articles 19 and 191 of [Law]. I don't think these paragraphs are appropriate at all, even in the compromise formulation. It is not appropriate for them to be vague and counterfeit. What do you mean, they're vague? In both paragraphs, point 1 begins by not inciting hatred. What does it mean to speed up hatred? Since I have dealt with the philosophy of speech, I [know that] generally refers to directives. You have to do this or you can't do this. But here it is vague, because there are not only direct statements but also indirect ones. When I say, for example, 'The Jews in the oven', this is a directive's way of speaking and it is clear that it goes there [down]. But when I say that I don't think it's a bad idea to put Jews in an oven, it's like there's no order. Is it speeding or not? Or is that a statement? Or even if there's a direct order, maybe it's such an artistic move, like my bad, negative character in my work says that. But it's in both the United States and Western Europe now, these things don't matter. If you have bad words in you, you have to take responsibility for them, whether you judge them or not. It's all about speeding. But now let us see [in] that we must not discriminate against political views. Great, you can't! But what does it mean not to discriminate? Is it discrimination that we do not give the floor to those people with poor political views or that we say that these views are bad? These are two basically different things that have not been distinguished here. For example, if I have heard in Estonian broadcasting not only once that EKRE is fascists, is it discrimination or not? Or is that a subjective opinion, or what about it? You see, I'm not an EKRE member, I'm not even an EKRE supporter, but when I hear things like this, something's gonna fight me back. And I'd be even more opposed if such things were forbidden. Or it has also been said here that there must be no discrimination over the property situation. Dear colleagues, this discrimination by property status is stoned to stone. All of your proposals that rich people have to pay more must change the tax system so that the rich can be squeezed out more than that, isn't that discrimination? There's a lot of these things. I am not at all in favour of discrimination. But first, the law must be clearly written, not ambiguously as here, and second, it must be better thought out. Once again, gold is not all that comes from Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U360	Thank you. There are no further requests for speech on this or on any other draft. I will conclude the negotiations and now we will go to the amendments. The amendments, I'm sorry, are called this thing. There's a whole bunch of them on the bill, and then we're gonna start over. Amendment 1 Its author is the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Culture has taken full account of it. Amendment 2, proposed by the Committee on Culture and the Steering Committee, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 3, by Kalle Grünthal, Rene Kokk, Henn Põljaas and the commission of directors, has taken this into account in substance Amendment 4. Amendment 4, by the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Culture itself, has taken full account of this. Amendment 5, tabled by the Isamaa Group, has been rejected by the commission. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U361	Thank you, Honourable Manager. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U362	Sure! And now we have to make a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, to keep everyone informed: we are in the Media Services Act and we are reviewing the amendments. We have come to the fifth amendment, which is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, and has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U363	There are 9 delegates in favour of the amendment, 51 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U364	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U365	Are we going to make a call, or can we vote now? We can vote right away, just had a call sign. I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, tabled by the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Culture itself, which has fully taken this into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U366	There are 63 delegates in favour of the amendment, 6 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 7. It is produced by the Group of the Fatherland and the commission has been disregarded. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U367	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for a vote on this, and I forgot last time to say that I would like to support you. I have seen from the results of the vote that this is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U368	Yeah. Let's go without a call, huh? I shall put to the vote Amendment 7, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U369	Agitation was bearing fruit, and there are more abstentions this time. There shall be nine votes in favour, 51 votes against and 5 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us go to the eighth amendment. Its author is the Committee on Culture, and the Committee on Culture itself has taken full account of it. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U370	I also ask for this amendment to be voted on and, contrary to Helir-Valdor Seeder, I do not want to give guidelines to members of the Riigikogu. And as shown by the vote on the sixth amendment, there will be surprising subsidies when we vote according to conscience.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U371	I shall put to the vote the eighth amendment tabled by the Committee on Culture. The Committee on Culture itself has taken full account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U372	There are 63 delegates in favour of the eighth amendment, 5 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 9, tabled by Mr Aart, Mr Kaalep, Mr Kingo. The commission has taken this into account in part in Amendment 10. Amendment 10, tabled by the Committee on Culture... You wanted the last one? Yeah, I'm sorry! Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U373	Yes, this amendment by the EKRE ambassadors seems pretty good, I ask you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U374	Sure. I shall put to the vote the ninth amendment tabled by Mr Aart, Mr Kaalep, Mr Kingo. This has been partially taken into account by the Governing Commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U375	There are 13 delegates in favour of the ninth amendment, 50 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We come to the tenth amendment. Its author is the Committee on Culture and the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Steering Committee, has been fully taken into account. [[In the diner.]] Yeah, I didn't believe my eyes. Amendment 12, tabled by the Committee on Culture and the Steering Committee, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 13, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has taken account in substance of Amendment 14. Amendment 14, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 15, tabled by Helle-Moonika Helme, Kert Kingo and Henn Põljaas and the commission has taken account in substance of Amendment 16. Amendment 16, by the Committee on Culture and the Commission itself, has taken full account of this. Amendment 17, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has taken account in substance of Amendment 19. Amendment 18, tabled by Jüri Jaanson, has been taken into account by the commission in substance by Amendment 19. Amendment 19, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 20, tabled by Helle-Moonika Helme, Mart Helme, Kert Kingo and Rene Kokk, has been partially taken into account by the Steering Committee in Amendment 21. Amendment 21, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account by the Commission. Amendment 22, tabled by the Committee on Culture and the commission has taken full account of it. Amendment 23, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 24, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Culture. Amendment 25, tabled by Jüri Jaanson, has been rejected by the commission. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U376	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U377	Helir-Valdor? Oh, I see. Would you like a call sign? No, I don't. I will put to the vote Amendment 25, tabled by Jüri Jaanson and the commission has rejected it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U378	The amendment was supported by 16 delegates, 43 against and 3 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 26, tabled by the Committee on Culture and the Steering Committee, has taken full account of this. We have examined all the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 327 be terminated. I don't have any other proposals here. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U379	Let's move on to today's agenda. Agenda item 4, First reading of the Equal Treatment Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and of the Act amending the Law on Churches and Congregations 519. I call as rapporteur Signe Riisalo, Minister of Social Protection. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U380	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I come before you with a government-led bill, an equal treatment law, and churches and parishes... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U381	Please, let's keep the hall down!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U382	... with a draft amendment to the law. I begin by saying that non-discrimination is a principle that is enshrined in subsections 11 and 12 of our Constitution. The Equal Treatment Act is one of several laws that specify the content and nature of discrimination as well as the protection of people. I would point out that acts against discrimination are to a large extent linked to the paragraphs of the Penal Code and also to the law of the Chancellor of Justice. The Commissioner has limited powers to engage in anti-discrimination activities. Thus, the Equal Treatment Act states that the Commissioner's competence is limited to the protection of people on the grounds of nationality, race, colour, religion, belief, age, disability or sexual orientation, but specifies this as follows. In particular, discrimination against persons on grounds of nationality, race or colour is prohibited in almost all areas of life: work, vocational training, social work, health care, social security, education and also publicly available goods and services. At the same time, for groups that include people due to age, disability or sexual orientation, this is only in protected areas, namely working life and vocational training. In this respect, we have proposed in the draft that we offer uniform protection to all groups in all areas of life, resulting in groups receiving protection on the basis of nationality, race, colour, religion, belief, age, disability or sexual orientation in the following areas: work, vocational training, social work, health care, social security, education, and publicly available services and goods. What will change as a result? As a result, these groups can turn to the Commissioner for Equal Treatment in these areas of life for consultation on their rights. I would remind you that there are often vulnerable groups, such as people with special needs, people with disabilities, as well as older people, who may not have the capacity, skill or financial opportunity to go directly to court in the Constitution. The assistance and support of the Equal Treatment Commissioner is therefore essential for these people and they will be able to assess whether or not this was a discriminatory situation. It is true that we have now excluded one group, that is discrimination on the basis of social status. The reason for this is simple: we did not know how to define social status here and now unambiguously. We consulted the people of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, as we did with the Ministry of Justice, but we maintained that we are in the process of amending the Equal Treatment Act and the Gender Equality Act further this year and bringing in amendments to the next draft of social status. There is another amendment to this law concerning the compromise on churches and congregations. In particular, through the Ministry of the Interior, we discussed whether the churches and congregations are obliged to rent out the buildings and premises in their possession on the same grounds of discrimination or whether they have the right to refuse. As a compromise, we have come to the conclusion that indeed churches and congregations have the opportunity to refuse to rent premises and buildings where religious services are carried out. With churches and congregations, we actually held discussions as early as 2018, when the initial version of this draft was completed. Regrettably, this bill has been suspended and put on hold for several years. Here and now we have also taken into account the positions of churches and congregations at the time. They are available to all in the sixth section of the coordination table. In addition, I would also like to announce that there is no great burden on the state budget coming up with this draft. The instruments necessary for the implementation of the draft relate in particular to communication activities and staff costs in the Commissioner's Office for Equal Treatment. These amounts amount to EUR 100280 per year. As has been said, they come from the Social Ministry's own resources. This is where I'm gonna finish and give you a chance to ask questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U383	There are questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U384	Good manager! Dear Minister, I believe you're one of the strongest in this area who's in this hall right now, which is why I'm asking you. The draft refers to people with disabilities. I know it's been agreed years ago that people with special needs will be discussed. What moment has this change been made? I know that, in the middle of the first decade of this century, it was very clear that the word 'disabled' was not used, but used'special needs'.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U385	Thank you. The word'special need' is certainly much wider and, in my opinion, exactly the same in the negative sense that people are less affected. However, the word 'disability' is used primarily because of the conventions from which this vocabulary comes to be used, and because of the [protecting] Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, there is such a use of words, as well as a list of those who are protected from discrimination.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U386	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U387	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You are probably aware that the Estonian Council of Churches has sent you its complaints and suggestions regarding this draft. It is pretty bad that although there is a reference to a compromise with the Estonian Council of Churches, it does not correspond to reality and the compromise with the Estonian Council of Churches has not been sought. How would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U388	Thank you for your question. It is quite common for ministries to send the draft to the coordinating circle of ministries that are concerned with [the subject] and are responsible for specific areas of life. So we have sent the draft for coordination to the Ministry of the Interior, who has been communicating information and expectations that have existed in churches and congregations. I admit that we actually talked to churches and congregations in 2018 and sat at a table with people from among them. As I said earlier, the six amendments they made to the draft then are well on the coordination table. Several of them are of a technical nature, some of which have been taken into account, inter alia, in improvements and improvements to the explanatory memorandum. However, they did not even have that expectation in 2018 for the introduction of the rooms owned by churches and congregations or of the temples. It has been brokered by the Ministry of the Interior now and now in the process, and we have found this compromise point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U389	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U390	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You just said a little while ago that you did not take the social status of the list of discrimination there, because it cannot be clearly furnished. But how have you furnished the sexual orientation on this list if it cannot be determined exactly? They don't even know what it is, it's changing all the time. We know that the sexes always come to them, and this condition is so-called vulgar and whirling. How, then, does a law describe it and unambiguously define that it has gotten into this list?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U391	Thank you very much. Social orientation, in other words, orientation is seen as a permanent romantic or sexual attraction against the opposite sex, the same sex, both sexes or more than one gender. We have largely followed this definition.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U392	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U393	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I read immediately here in the first paragraph of Article 1 that discrimination is prohibited in the establishment of working conditions, in the termination or termination of an employment contract or a contract for the provision of services and in the dismissal of a contract of employment, in the same way as in the acquisition of education, including vocational training, in the provision of goods and services offered to the public. If we look at what is currently in force in our country, we will see that we have discrimination, because those who have not been vaccinated will be finely discriminated against will be released from work and will not be allowed to receive services, they will not be allowed to attend school. How do you now explain why people's right to make their own treatment decisions has not been included in this law, and do you accept that this is the right thing in the case of discrimination [an argument], for example, of coronal vaccination?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U394	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to say that rights and freedoms must be restricted only in accordance with the Constitution. All existing laws, regulations and the orders of the Government of the Republic are in accordance with the Constitution. This has been confirmed on quite a number of occasions by various courts at first instance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U395	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U396	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to the SKA, at the end of 2020 there were 146210 officially disabled persons in Estonia, or almost one in nine of us. They are accompanied by this group of people, who are, as if, self-esteemed persons with operational limitations. We have also pointed out that they have had problems receiving the service. According to the 2019 Eurostat study on health services, almost 27% of people said that they had not received the service. We are also discussing private services more widely with this bill. My question concerns the target group for people with narrow disabilities. Is there any more recent data in connection with the COVID crisis that this situation in this sector could actually be quantified?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U397	Thank you for your question. I honestly admit that access to healthcare is largely an area of the Minister for Health and Labour. But we have done and ordered analyses that show the restriction of access to the service in relation to the burden of ownership. Indeed, this shows that there are people of both retirement age and disability, as well as beneficiaries of income support, who, due to the high level of self-participation, do not have sufficient access to the service. Specifically, as you asked, I have no answer for you at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U398	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U399	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have a further question specifically on the draft itself. This alleged compromise, as it turns out, was not a real compromise, it concerns the sacral buildings of churches. It says that a religious association has the right to refuse to use the temple that it owns or uses. There are no other buildings on this list, but as we know, the religious community may also have other buildings, which are not just temples. Now it is just as if or can be interpreted as meaning that these other buildings, which are not temples, are not covered by this regulation. Or do I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U400	On the contrary. When we talk about protection against discrimination, when all these other buildings belonging to churches and congregations are intended to provide public services, they are subject to restrictions within the meaning of this law. The distinction is made for temples where religious services are carried out. Indeed, they do not benefit from the Equal Treatment Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U401	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U402	Thank you. How can you, as a member of this government, speak of effective protection from discrimination if this government has shut down hundreds of thousands of people from public, social life, fired them from the police and the defence forces, in a situation where the current government has continuously and steadily violated people's constitutional rights in relation to the corona restrictions? How can you even talk about some kind of effective protection against discrimination under this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U403	Thank you for your question. I would now put aside the situation that has been brought to us over the last two years and which is very narrowly concerned with the restrictions relating to the health crisis, and I come to the point that we still have people in society, whether they are older or disabled, with special needs for whom we want to offer maximum protection. In particular, protection through the right to appeal to the Commissioner for Equality for help, advice, support and consultation, with these people and groups already having protection in accordance with the Constitution. The plus that comes with this bill is only the opportunity to address the Commissioner and to receive advice and assistance from him.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U404	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U405	Thank you. I will continue my first question. Special needs include types of disability, age, health status, social background. Are we currently defending only those people who have physically prescribed trees for themselves, but not those who really have needs? The second part of the question is: when we talked about the fact that this law does not apply to church buildings, does this mean that, in so many churches, when concerts and charity are performed, these points of law do not apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U406	Thank you. I'll start with the other side of the question. It is true that, in agreement with churches and congregations, a compromise has been reached through the Ministry of the Interior that, when it comes to the temple or also to the space where religious services are carried out, there is no additional protection or prohibition in these places. But when it comes to people with disabilities, of course, we protect the elderly. We know that an increasing percentage of older people have problems with independent living. We know that there is a very large number of older people in some regions who have problems with independent living. Those persons, regardless of whether they have applied for [for designation] or not, are protected either by age or disability.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U407	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U408	Thank you. Thank you for coming to this hall and introducing this law! When we look at the decisions of the Supreme Court, we see that the decisions of the Supreme Court under, for example, the current Equal Treatment Act are one. However, there are considerably more about § 12 of the Constitution, which shows that the current wording is certainly too narrow and does not sufficiently protect people's constitutional rights. In this sense, this expansion is very sensible. The emphasis on the availability of public goods and services is particularly important, with which Estonia really has problems, such as the fact that families with children, the Roma, construction workers find it very difficult to find rental housing. This amendment provides an opportunity for some of the groups mentioned, such as the Roma, to address the Commissioner for Equality, so that discrimination can be helped. At the same time, construction workers remain the only option to continue to apply to the courts on the basis of Article 12 of the Constitution. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Maybe we could somehow put this social status in...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U409	Time, Oudekki!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U410	... not to do something about fundamental rights, that some fundamental rights are more important than others?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U411	Thank you for your question. As I said earlier, the Ministry also has a substantive wish. The question was simply that we were not able to analyse the content of social status in this time frame to the end. But if the Riigikogu has good tips for this, then, of course, every bill can be improved and this is an opportunity for the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U412	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U413	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'd still like to continue on my subject. You are saying that everything is legal, but the name of the law that we are currently dealing with is the law of equal treatment. The fact that you are twisting the words here that there is no coercive vaccination, but we are simply indirectly forcing it to do so is your choice and your communication. But I wonder how we can call equal treatment if a group of persons is not allowed to work, are not allowed to take part in cafés or restaurants, are not allowed to participate in public life, are not allowed to go to sports competitions, some students are not allowed to go to skating courts, are not allowed to go to museums. How does this relate to equal treatment? Explain to me why this is not discrimination and why, for example, in the case of some gender orientation, it is discrimination. Bring me the difference, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U414	We are talking about people's fundamental rights and freedoms. § 11 of the Constitution states that rights and freedoms may be restricted only in accordance with the Constitution. As long as any restrictions are compatible with the Constitution, we cannot talk about restrictions on human rights or freedoms, nor about discrimination.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U415	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U416	Thank you. I'm looking at the practical cases we've had so far. For example, if a deeply religious, religious person wants to rent out his apartment or offer bed and breakfast or the church does so, then religious beliefs are important, they must not be run over, that would be discrimination. However, there is also the principle of freedom of contract for all of us, which must be respected. You choose who you rent to and who you don't rent to. If this goes against your moral and religious views, you have the freedom not to rent out. You say you have to rent, but at the same time the person who insists, for example, on a person with a certain orientation, also has the freedom to choose another place. But according to the law, he is the only one, but morals, religious beliefs, and freedom of contract do not apply for some reason. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U417	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U418	How's that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U419	First of all, I say that the current Equal Treatment Act already says today that because of nationality, race or colour [for discrimination], protection is guaranteed. The same public service, including the rental market, which you asked about, must be seen as an area of application of this law. What are we talking about? We are talking about bringing in some groups, mostly older or disabled people, and, as I said, it concerns the same sexes. Of course, you are absolutely right in this respect that religious beliefs are equally protected by the Constitution, but no one prevents a person from renting out his or her apartment on his or her own terms if he or she does so in his or her smaller circle of acquaintances and not as a public service. As soon as a public service is provided, for example, if a church or congregation has an accommodation, a hotel, and it offers a service on an Internet portal, these restrictive provisions will also work in this sense. Once again, it is very important to remember that no one has an obligation to enter the rental market. But there are some rules that we already have there. It is very important to understand the fact that we are not saying that you have to rent out a person who, perhaps because of religious beliefs, is not suitable, appropriate or acceptable to you, but you must not refuse on grounds of religious belief. That's the point of this thing, and here's the difference. So if you have two equal candidates to offer an apartment, you can't say that I'm picking him because that religious dimension is there. That's the essence difference. [[A voice from the hall.]] No, you can't justify it as a criterion for making a choice, and you can't put up an advert that I don't take a person who is older than... or who has been identified as a disability, a person belonging to a religious group, and so on. You can't put up an ad like this, it's just like a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U420	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U421	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It's all the demagoguery you're talking about here. It's total demagoguery. Well, it's just embarrassing. Look, by the way, the Russian propaganda channels. Your party suddenly discovered that they needed to be banned. There, by the way, the West is being taunted precisely because of what you are defending here: decadent, degenerate, degenerate, wallowing in sin. What's your obsession with these homos? What kind of obsession is that? I'm telling you, I've been discriminated against for a long time since I wasn't vaccinated. If you say that this is not discrimination, I do not agree with you. But my question is this. My religious convictions are justified by the Bible's list of sins. On the basis of my religious beliefs, I refuse to provide services to those I consider to be sinners. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Whose truth, then, does the truth of sinners or my truth preempt?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U422	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U423	Thank you for your opinion, but I did not understand the substance of the question. [[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U424	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U425	Thank you. Dear Minister, I understand that this bill has been drawn up for a long time, in 2018 it has gone to the coordination circle, and the important provisions should enter into force on 1 July next year. Each draft has set out the financial impact, here it is extremely detailed that money has been requested, has not been received, these costs are estimated at EUR 100000 per additional year through the Office of the Commissioner for Equality. What is it now, EUR 100000, the subject of the RES, or it comes from the Ministry of Social Affairs budget, or what? I see that there is still no clarity as to how this financial side will be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U426	Thank you. On the contrary, there is clarity. We have made this choice in view of the importance of this draft. We will find the possibility of financing Liisa Pakosta's Commissioner's office further with internal resources. Of course, this money is not just in our budget, at the expense of which we are failing to do another important thing in the equality landscape. Specifically, we are talking about activities aimed at the gender pay gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U427	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U428	Thank you. First of all, I have a very specific question. Does the prohibition of discrimination based on religion take into account only members of congregations registered and recognised in Estonia or also congregations and creeds not recognised in Estonia? For example, pasta stars, you know, whose deity is a flying macaronimonstrum, not to confuse with rastafares. That is a specific question. The second question, however, is whether religion-dependent peculiarities are taken into account and how they are taken into account. At Tallinn airport, for example, I saw two women going through security, one being a Christian, the other a Muslim, with the same towels on their heads. The Christian had to take the towel off, the Muslim was told not to take it off. The question, then, is it allowed to place a picture on a driving licence with a head cover corresponding to religion in Estonia? Pasta are very interested in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U429	I will answer the first part of the question first. After all, we are talking about protection against discrimination for reasons of religion or belief. So any of these beliefs are and are somehow recognized or not recognised in Estonia, surely all that you have brought out will fall under the conviction. I owe the answer to what requirements are in the job photos, I am not specifically prepared for this today. I don't consider it discrimination when I'm asked to take off a towel or hat. However, if I were a Muslim woman and, according to my religious belief, it was a duty to wear a hat, it would be discrimination, i.e. disrespecting my beliefs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U430	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U431	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. According to my conviction and faith, this bill you're introducing to us here is a total decadent crap. It's my faith and conviction. But here's the question. You say that there are currently four minority groups that can turn to the Commissioner for equality in three new areas, and it is currently only three minority groups that can be addressed to the Commissioner. Who is this fourth minority group you're pushing into this hall for us, and in what positions of these three could they claim their rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U432	I'll tell you what the groups we're talking about are. We are talking about people on grounds of nationality, race, colour, religion, belief, age, disability or sexual orientation. These are the groups we're talking about. We want all these groups to have protection against discrimination in exactly the same areas. [[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U433	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U434	Thank you. About discrimination. I remember when I was standing there on the remote instead of you as a minister, the representatives of your group screamed in this Chamber, mocked me for my age and for my intellectual abilities, and asked if I was ashamed when I would resign, if I was not too old to hold this profession, and if I understood what I was talking about here at all. Was it also discrimination, or how did it qualify?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U435	So I have to take out the stenograms to evaluate exactly what was said and in what context. But I think it would be best for you to turn to the Commissioner for Equality for an assessment in the event of a suspicion of discrimination on grounds of age.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U436	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U437	Minister, thank you very much. I think you may be too white and too young for this ministry. But anyway, I asked one question: if there are four minority groups now, you whined me a lot more ahead of you, and there were three before, then what is this one, which is now added, this minority group. It's a simple question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U438	I don't know where you're gonna take that three and four. I'm going to read what's in the text of the law. I really do not understand exactly what you are talking about, but if something is missing, the Commission's co-rapporteur, Mrs Oudekki Loone, has already done so. What is missing is, in fact, social status. It has not been included in the draft. [[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U439	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U440	Thank you. Dear waitress, You come here with a floor bill with all kinds of discriminatory groups that need to be helped. But why have you not so far paid attention to this group, which is in absolute majority among all those so-called excluded? These are older people. Older people don't get a loan from the bank, even though they're alive and well, and so on. They're stuck in a box, you can compare it to the Indian caste system. You're coming here now. But why haven't you done anything so far? Why are they second-class people? The Republic of Estonia violates their constitutional rights, as no one can be discriminated against for reasons of age.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U441	Thank you. Let us be honest, on the basis of the Constitution, older people have the right to go to court today because of age discrimination. The current draft creates an additional opportunity to address the Commissioner for Equality in addition to age discrimination. You do not have to go directly to court if a vulnerable group does not have enough skills, resources or even knowledge that there is any reason to suspect discrimination. We want to create an additional opportunity for older people to turn directly to the Commissioner in addition to addressing the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U442	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U443	Thank you. I have listened to your answer, and while I have so far quite respected you in some respects, with today's answer you will completely withdraw to the level of Kaja Kallas. "If there is a problem, go to court. " For heaven's sake, I'd say. Where does an older person get the money to go to court against a bank? Do you understand? Is that a real answer? Tell me if you understand what you're offering to older people right now. Go to court against the bank, because the bank doesn't grant a loan! Please prepare an application, which is standard for all elderly people, so that we can finally see that there is something useful about what you are saying. Do a few things, too, because that's your idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U444	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Grünthal. I don't understand your irritation very well, because I am standing before you with a bill that creates an additional opportunity for an elderly person besides going to court.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U445	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U446	Dear waitress, Great words again. But what is reality, what is reality? One of the most common places of persecution, violation of equality law, is [recruitment] for political convictions, which are particularly practiced by your party associates. I can talk about personal experience. Ants Leemets invited me to apply for the Rakvere Museum Director's competition and everything was nice until he found out that I had taken the floor to defend the Estonian kroon. He said to me plainly: "No, no, no, you can't, unthinkable, that you could be in such a job, in an apolitical job. " This is the reality you've been dealing with, for decades you've been cleaning the state apparatus on the basis of political convictions, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, everyone. How are you gonna treat this, how are you gonna look?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U447	I don't know how to answer that question in the sense that I'm... [[A voice from the hall.]] You said, "You are." I can speak for myself. I've always behaved ethically in my opinion. Having engaged in social work in essence throughout my conscious life, I am certainly, and only, guided by the protection of people's rights and by the fact that weaker and more vulnerable groups have the same opportunities to cope in our society as those to whom God has given better preconditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U448	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U449	Thank you. In all your answers, you have quite clearly placed religious beliefs and sexual orientation in different categories, and in any case sexual orientation towards religious beliefs and morals prevails. This is completely absurd. It's pure discrimination. I will continue with such practical questions, just as my first question was. What happens if a baker, a sincere religious person, refuses to cook for a gay couple, or a pastry man refuses to bake cake and put two grooms on that cake, for example? Or what happens to the owner of a bookstore who, based on his religious and moral views, refuses to sell some kind of gay literature and so on and so forth? All these hundreds of thousands of people, will they be...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U450	Time, Henn!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U451	... to punish now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U452	Thank you very much. The Equal Treatment Act doesn't punish anyone. Under the Equal Treatment Act, a person receives advice and assistance from the Commissioner. If he has received advice from the Commissioner, decides to go to court and the court deals with this case, I really do not know what conclusion a particular judge will reach in this case, because it is indeed necessary to prove that the grounds for refusal were the same discrimination in the same-sex direction. I can also tell you that, in the Penal Code, we have § 10, mainly Section 1 and 2 of the Penal Code, in the case of such discrimination, also a penalty [see]. So I'm gonna owe you an answer here, which is the conclusion of the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U453	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U454	Thank you. I thought I wouldn't ask, Minister, but it got so personal here, everyone brings personal examples and comments, doesn't everyone have such a big deal to do with this one-page law? I also remembered a personal story, maybe you'll judge it. I am very sorry that this protection of the law does not extend to me because I was never accepted into a student corporation, because I am not an Estonian person. How do you think we should ever have or could have protection in such cases? I understand that this law does not specifically protect in this case, it is membership of the NGO, and the NGO itself decides who it accepts and who it does not. But isn't this about discrimination, where the state could come to the aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U455	Thank you for your question. However, I believe that the right to self-determination must remain within certain limits for non-governmental organisations as long as it is compatible with existing law, in particular the Constitution. In fact, as far as Estonian citizenship is concerned, there are quite a few other laws that make us pre-conditioned, whether this or the pre-requisite for the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U456	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U457	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, It can be seen that this law is made with a Marxist passion, that discrimination is only being deepened, and that it is aimed mainly at the beliefs of conservatives and believers. This is your main practice lately, bringing in such drafts. However, you did not answer the question of how these political convictions are. Have you not really heard of discrimination on this basis? So let's talk about how real life works. Can't you tell me one example, you've never heard anything? How, then, will it be possible for ministries, for example, to fire people with a different political conviction with a rather open hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U458	Yes, continue: political convictions are also convictions. In this sense, I agree with you and, in that sense, it is also possible to obtain an opinion on political convictions from the Commissioner for Equal Treatment, who will assess this situation as discriminatory or non-discriminatory. If he considers this situation to be discriminatory, of course he has the right and the possibility of further recourse to the courts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U459	The procedure has arisen. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U460	Yeah, thanks! I have this procedural question. We are, in fact, presenting here either a deliberately incorrectly worded draft, or it actually has some sort of ulterior motive. I want to be clear. We have this list here, it's all well-counted, right, ethnicity, race, skin colour, religion or belief, disability, age. In fact, there should continue to be "and sexual orientation," it is like a list. But this "or" leads to this sexual orientation just like somewhere else. What's it about? Is it linguistically right or wrong? Make an assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U461	Yeah, it wasn't procedural, of course, but the Minister would like to answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U462	Yeah. Thank you for your question. But in the legal language there is such an approach that if a list is given and there is no presumption that all these characteristics must apply simultaneously to one person, then the list does not use 'and' but uses 'or'. The idea of "or" is that a person must not be discriminated against at the same time on the basis of race and sexual orientation, but may be one of those traits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U463	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U464	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm asking about a letter from the Justice Department that wasn't taken into account. In fact, the Estonian Council of Churches has referred to this. In 2018, they sent this letter. It was probably based on the yokk scheme, and this letter was really late for the coordination period. But today we have 2022, four years is the difference. The answer, why has not been taken into account, is this: because it is too late, but otherwise it would seem that there are quite good drafts or good proposals. But one more thing I'd like to ask you. This will continue in such a way that the comments submitted are no longer relevant in view of the change in the composition of the government. Maybe you'll help me figure that out. The government has changed. Why are these comments no longer relevant?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U465	You see, with these drafts that the Riigikogu is dealing with, it is quite the same that when a new Riigikogu comes or when a government changes, decisions are made about which drafts will remain in the process and which will not be further processed. In the same way, there is a parallel in the government to the procedure of the drafts. If we were previously dealing with the positions expressed with the signature of a minister from the Ministry of Justice, which, in the case of this sitting minister, is no longer relevant or consistent with his attitude, they cannot and there is no reason to take into account them, because the new Minister of Justice has his own views.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U466	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U467	Thank you. I take this opportunity to have the Minister here today. We have happened that the previous point was also important, at least for me, in the area of discrimination. The majority of the Riigikogu voted in the Media Services Act an amendment that prohibits hatred and incitement to discrimination, but only if it does not pose a direct threat to human health or property. I understand that the government has also made a negative assessment of this, but at the same time your party associates have generously voted in favour of this clause in this Chamber. How do you assess whether clauses in laws that, on the one hand, prohibit, but, on the other hand, allow incitement to hatred will benefit your sector or rather harm it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U468	My field in this sense is all the people of Estonia. I certainly would not want to live in a country where people with disabilities or older people can be labeled or labelled with hatred or hate speech in any way. But I will not give an opinion on the previous draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U469	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U470	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you very much for this necessary draft. It is not in itself that discrimination disappears; it must be a well-informed policy of the State to promote [loss]. I'll ask you two questions. First of all, can you tell us what the grounds for discrimination on which the most complaints have been made or on what subjects or areas, or what history shows what we have complaints about? The second question is forward-looking. Apparently, this bill isn't enough. Is there anything else you intend to do in the future to enable people to turn to court for discrimination, I don't know, to seek protection? Is there anything else coming from the Ministry as legislative initiatives?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U471	Thank you. We can draw conclusions largely from what statements and appeals have come to the Commissioner for Equality. It can also assess the issues on which it has competence and on which matters it needs to be extended. It is true that the educational landscape is quite a concern for children with special needs, disabled children, such as school's willingness to accept children with different needs, whether it is a need to use a wheelchair or something else. In my area of activity, I certainly see children with behavioural problems, who are very easily directed by the education system to home learning, as a place of great concern. But it is these children who need a social environment and adaptation to learn how to cope with life. Similarly, the issue of renting a dwelling has been a concern. This has also come out in separate discussions with the Commission on the possibility for older people to obtain bank loans, leasing, including life insurance. This has also been demonstrated by our good strategic partner, the Golden League, who is a representative of older people, that they see great concerns there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U472	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U473	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'd like to continue my last question a little bit. I understand that, of course, every ruler, every political power, has its priorities, and I do not expect the Reform Party to have exactly the same priorities as the Fatherland. That's what I get. My question was addressed to it in a sense I ask, generalized over, that everything that was in that letter could, in the opinion of the Reform Party, as I understand it, go into the trash can, frankly, no longer matter. I might have put some more paint on. But here's another topic. The question has also been put on the side of the Union of Cities and Municipalities, and the answer has been that it has been recorded what it is possible for people to turn to the Commissioner and ask for an opinion. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Do you consider this list to be exhaustive in the volume of today's law? Two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U474	I'll start with the other one. This list is quite comprehensive, as public services include both public services and private services, which are offered publicly, services and products go down there. Similarly, learning and working are covered in very important areas of life. Another very important part, access to care, social security and health care, is equally covered. So I believe that this is sufficient and exhaustive. Now, the first part of the question. Yes, the Reform Party is one of the coalition partners and the Prime Party. But I assure you that the drafts will not only be prepared on the basis of political convictions, but primarily on human and humane grounds, in order to improve the situation of our people. Certainly all those people who have been involved in preparing this draft at different times are not members of the Reform Party and may not also be pro-reform party-minded.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U475	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U476	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You replied here that perhaps if some of the proposals and initiatives had been taken by previous ministers, then the new minister would not have to like these things personally. We touch sacral facilities and all these things. Yes, perhaps not all ministers should be religious, they may also be religious, but when we talk about equal treatment and this principle, such things cannot still be decided on a personal level. This false claim that it was placed somewhere in 2018 is, in fact, misleading. It still doesn't fit personally, that kind of thing. Is that even appropriate? It could be a dare not to simply support sacral facilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U477	No, the other way around. After all, we have supported this proposal, excluded them in this sense, and allowed churches and congregations that carry out religious services to have the exception that they do not have to comply with the Equal Treatment Act. However, they must follow it when they go to the rental market, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U478	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U479	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I understand the resentment of my fellow Members, who are on my left hand, because of some grounds for discrimination, such as sexual orientation, because that is their view of the world. But because of this alone, being very critical of the draft as a whole is, in my opinion, unfair. When we talk about families with children, we talk about elderly people, we talk about people with disabilities, I think we all agree that they should not be discriminated against. That's why I'm asking. Does this draft extend the so-called possible grounds and cases of discrimination listed in § 12 of the Constitution? Secondly, I wonder whether one of the main components of this draft is what Kalle Grünthal was concerned about, that you have no choice but to go to court. I have realised that this draft will also create an opportunity for many other open groups to address first the Commissioner for Equality in order to avoid the courts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U480	§ 12 of the Constitution refers to groups such as nationality, race, colour, sex, language, origin, religion, political or other belief, as well as property and social status or other circumstances. Perhaps, in fact, the protection of discrimination in the Constitution is much wider than it is in the Equal Treatment Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U481	Thank you very much. No further questions. We can move forward with a co-report. I call Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U482	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on Tuesday 25 January. This bill was presented by Signe Riisalo in an analogous way to today's [exhibition], so I will not repeat it. Some of the questions have already been heard in this Chamber, but now there is an overview. Toomas Kivimägi asked whether, in essence, this bill would bring the Equality Act into line with § 12 of the Constitution. Signe Riisalo confirmed that yes, it could be said that it would bring better alignment. Although discrimination is generally prohibited, as has been mentioned, access to the assistance and support of the Commissioner has so far been limited and the draft opens up the supporting role of the Commissioner to all groups in all areas of life listed in the law. He acknowledged that there was indeed a lack of social status, because, in cooperation with the Office of the Ministry of Justice and the Chancellor of Justice, there was no way to define this social status unambiguously. Kalle Grünthal also raised in the Commission the problem of the possibility of obtaining loans for older people. Signe Riisalo said it was a big problem. In addition, there is a similar, analogous problem in the area of life insurance. In fact, this bill creates an opportunity for a person to turn to the Equal Treatment Commissioner, who can assess whether this is a proportionate restriction, whether the restriction is justified and on a fair basis. It'll give you an extra chance. Here I would like to emphasise precisely what came up in the Commission several times again, whether Article 12 of the Constitution and the Equal Treatment Act say that no distinctions must be made. No, it's not a draft or a law, it's not allowed to make any distinctions, but they must be justified and fair, as § 11 of the Constitution says. This is where the Commissioner for Equality comes in. The issue of the rental market was also widely discussed. I pointed out that it was difficult for families with children to get [rental apartments]. On the other hand, Mr Paul Puustusmaa found that the owner was not obliged to rent his own home to anyone and could base his own decision on anything, the principle of trade in people's own property and business freedom is that if you come to rent his own house or apartment, he himself knows whether or not to let this person have his own property. In addition, in the rental question Urmas Reinsalu asked whether, now that a person wants to rent an apartment, for example, neo-Nazis and Satanists, a person does not have the right to refuse to rent his or her own apartment because it is discrimination. According to this logic, the country that rents out its rooms, said Urmas Reinsalu, should start to allow meeting rooms, for example, for anti-state activities for Russian extremists, and this is how it gets out of hand. In addition, Urmas Reinsalu studied that if restrictions are not imposed on the basis of sexual orientation, does this mean affection in any choice. For example, does the initiator suggest that a family with children should not refuse to rent a dwelling or a room in an apartment to paedophile? Toomas Kivimägi found the pedophilia on the surface of an example that there really should be a limit somewhere. If a pedophile wants to rent the dwelling before the rental agreement is concluded, then the person is forced to enter into the contract, for example, this may lead to the resentment of the neighbors. Couldn't these situations lead to social condemnation and resentment in the opposite direction, doesn't it create social tension? In response to these comments, Signe Riisalo found that there are really problems in the rental market, and there are other [such] groups besides families with children, and indeed, if there is a way to introduce social status into the law, that would be very reasonable. In addition, Signe Riisalo in the Commission considered that the grounds for refusal should be justified and proportionate. If, for example, the lessor suffers reputational damage, social pressure or social disapproval, he or she can refuse to enter into the contract. The refusal shall be proportionate in such cases. He found that, since the paedophile issue was raised, that once the paedophile has realized its affection for the minor, it is criminal, punishable, and there is legislation that later allows [his freedom of action] to be restricted. But if he has not harmed anyone and restrains that affection, then he is simply an ordinary person who cannot be labeled and condemned forever. Toomas Kivimägi considered that the integration of a paedophile into society must not be at the expense of the reputation of other people. I added in the area of rental that § 12 of the Constitution applies, and applies independently of legislation, which means that, in fact, today, when a room is rented out in public and a peaceful meeting is held there, such as neo-Nazis, Satanists, EKRE, Reform Party, this cannot be refused by the lessor. We can imagine that if we allow this to be done on an arbitrary basis, when the elections are coming, the local government may decide that it rents to a political party publicly [outlet] space and does not rent to another party. That is not what we would like to get to, and that is why we do not allow discrimination. I also mentioned that reputational damage is sometimes problematic. For example, when we talk about former prisoners, everyone is afraid of reputational damage, no one wants to rent them an apartment, and these people stay on the street forever. That's a fair country you shouldn't want. Let us recall that the right to a home is also present in the Declaration of Human Rights, which is exactly the same as our constitutional value. In fact, with this draft, we are not discussing whether Article 12 of the Constitution will change in any way at all, but how and which groups will receive help from the Commissioner for Equality. In addition to the issue of rent, the problems of the temples were raised from two angles. First of all, once again I mentioned that yes indeed, the church is a specific organization, forcing the church to give its sanctuary, for example, to a conference of atheists or to an act of blasphemy, is probably inhumane. But here, too, the question arises: if we make an exception for one ideological community, why do we treat others differently? Could trade unions, for example, also have such protection that they would not allow an anti-trade union conference in their rented premises? In addition, the question arose as to whether the school was specific, whether it should be mentioned separately, whether the school had to rent its own premises for a strip show, for example. Why are we making an exception for the church, but the school doesn't have an exception as to how this is justified? Indeed, Signe Riisalo found that yes, the issue of exceptions is not complicated. His personal preference would be that there should be no exceptions, but it was discussed, this exception was reached as a result of compromises and, in fact, it was a little designed, so far there have been no such problems. However, Signe Riisalo mentioned that the church was concerned that this problem might suddenly arise in the future, even though it did not exist. In the case of school, the Commission concluded that, as long as school events take place, children must be protected, that there are specific rules in place, but that if the school rents its own premises outside the study period, it is public space. But, of course, the school's rules of procedure allow certain restrictions to be imposed. It remained a little open in the Commission. I'd like to step aside for a moment, comment, I've checked it in the meantime. In fact, the school can also do certain restrictions on the use of its premises outside the study. This is justified by the student's right to use school premises outside the study. The student is always entitled to use the school premises outside the study, because perhaps he or she does not have the opportunity to do homework, somewhere this possibility must be available, the school rooms must guarantee it, and therefore the school must ensure that there is a suitable atmosphere for children at all times. Since it already exists, a separate distinction does not necessarily have to be made here. In addition, it was mentioned about the church that Urmas Reinsalu had a conversation with representatives of the Estonian Council of Churches during the meeting of the Commission, who stated that the Ministry of Social Affairs had never approached them as partners. He certainly considered this to be discrimination and suggested that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs invite representatives of the Estonian Council of Churches to the second-reading debate. Signe Riisalo replied that the Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing and coordinating its draft with all relevant partners, and the Estonian Council of Churches has coordinated this draft with its comments. All these comments can be found in the material submitted to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as an annex to the explanatory memorandum. All these comments are further explained by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Okay. In addition, the question arose as to the objective of non-discrimination, which was asked by both Urmas Reinsalu and Paul Puustusmaa, who found that the concept of discrimination itself is very confusing and the letter itself, this concept is so scattered that, in essence, all social relations can be subject to discrimination. He felt that the exception of churches and congregations was not really necessary; instead, it could be abolished in such a way that all individuals and associations would be entitled to refuse to use their property if the event or activity involved did not correspond to the moral sense of the owner. Nele Wheat, a legal adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs, replied to such a broader questionnaire on non-discrimination than such, which gave an example. Let's say the store owns some kind of property that the store sells, the owner does what he wants, and he wants to sell it. The store is hired by an employee who makes a deal with the client, selling him some kind of goods. If the seller were to sell the property according to his convictions, for example, he did not want to sell the goods to black people, that would be discrimination. The idea of non-discrimination is that minorities do not lose their services so that minorities can live, they can consume everything that is offered in public spaces. If you start from what your beliefs are, it's allowed until your beliefs begin to limit someone else's freedoms and rights so that someone loses important public services. This is what the democratic rule of law must defend. Urmas Reinsalu also asked whether there was an age limit and whether there was an age limit for receiving free higher education. If the draft extends the prohibition of discrimination in education in relation to age, will these age limits conflict with this draft? Kaisa Knight, Head of Equal Treatment Policy of the Ministry of Social Affairs, explained that this is part of the Ministry of Education and Research, but access to education is a question of proportionate consideration, and if the legislator has imposed certain restrictions there, this is based on the clash of two laws and the weighting of proportionality. In addition, Urmas Reinsalu asked that, when clergymen perform civil status duties as a public service, do they have the right to refuse to perform civil status activities as a public service on the basis of sexual orientation, such as refusing to perform certain weddings? Signe Riisalo replied that § 6 of the Family Act states that a legitimate clergyman has the right to refuse to enter into a marriage if the married person does not meet the conditions for entering into a marriage after a religion in the church, congregation, or association of congregations. Then Urmas Reinsalu asked what it was like to order a clergyman, whether there could be discriminatory provisions, for example, in the recruitment of a clergyman. Nele Wheat explained that there is already a provision in force to that effect, according to which different treatment of a person is not regarded as discrimination where a person's religion or belief is essential because of the nature of the activity or the conditions attached to it. So here again is the question that restrictions may be imposed, but these restrictions must be justified. Then decisions: propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda on 9 February 2022, adopted by consensus, and propose the completion of the first reading by 5 votes to 3, with 0 abstentions. Toomas Kivimägi proposed to appoint Oudekki Loone as the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Paul Puustusmaa proposed to appoint Kalle Grünthal as the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and Urmas Reinsalu proposed to appoint Lauri Läänemets as the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Toomas Kivimägi said that since Lauri, unfortunately, is no longer present in the West Forest, his consent cannot be sought and we cannot assume that he is prepared to report the draft on behalf of the Commission on the agreed date. Therefore, this was not taken into account. In the vote Oudekki Loone, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed as the representative of the commission, by 5 votes to 2, with 0 abstentions. If anyone has any questions, I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U483	But it seems there are no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Fatherland Group, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U484	Good manager! Dear Minister, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I can tell you that this law is a law that is currently being thrown into a trash can. Let's take the first page and a half written as a law. I will read this law to all of you who are very strong in the social field. It is important to know that disability is always linked to a special need. However, the special need does not necessarily mean disability. Estonian legislation uses the following definition: "Pusu is the loss or deviation of an anatomical, physiological or psychological structure or function of a person, which, in conjunction with different attitudes and environmental obstacles, prevents participation in society on an equal footing with others. " Trees are divided: disability, visual impairment, hearing disability, intellect disability, speech disability, composite disability, or other disability due to a medical condition that can be of varying degrees of severity: medium, severe, or severe. Now let's read the law. There's only the word "disability" in the law, and there's never a word "special need." There are approximately 150,000 people with disabilities in Estonia, which means that one in eight people in Estonia are disabled. One third of these are composite trees. But there's a lot of diversity among people with special needs, and trees have different species, right? In addition to the species of disability, the special needs include age, health status, social background. All differences [must] also take into account the discrepancy between needs and wishes. Now let's talk about this law. There's only a disability in the law. There's no special need. But if you take the explanatory statement apart, it'll write about it and explain all the things that this law should apply, but on the special needs side. Good social people! I am not a socialist, I am not going to talk about this for a long time, but the law is very clear about what something is. You can't write an explanatory statement about things that the law doesn't say. I will be honest with you that this is a complete failure: to come up here and talk most of the time in this law about special needs when the law says 'disability'. These two things don't match in any way. When I gave a speech on the previous bill, Socialist Heljo Pikhof said that maybe it was confused. I'm telling you, something's been messed up. Same coalition bill. In the previous draft, the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, the creation of opportunities for people with special needs for a dignified life as an equal, independent member of society when talking about media services. In this law, we are now trying to talk about all rights. I think they're supposed to be all rights. But it would not have been necessary to write one translation out of a European [document], because the Estonian laws are very clear about what is written about trees, which are meant for special needs. That's why we keep coming up with draft laws that are a mistake. And then we members of the Riigikogu must be able to delve into these issues. My luck has been, as we now have two other members in the hall... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U485	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U486	... who have been county elders who have had to deal with all areas that we have gained a little knowledge in various fields. This is, of course, a little bit, compared to you [we know] so little about the health issue. But we can read between the lines. Now I'm reading from here, but it doesn't make any sense what or who we're finally defending. We should understand that very clearly. The chairman of the committee was also concerned about what is on the rental market, to whom I have to give an apartment and to whom I do not have to. But at the same time, I will see that when we are talking about people with disabilities, I do not think that anyone in this Chamber would have a question on this issue. I think everyone would understand that no one would ignore it or object to it. In view of the fact that the explanatory memorandum and the law do not coincide, the Isamaa Group proposes to reject this draft law at first reading. The paper has been handed over to the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U487	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Martin Helme, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U488	Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister has performed here with a number of very interesting and airy sayings. One of them was that this law was carried out by humane, humane considerations. You know, there's all kinds of laws going through our desk, some are crazy, some are making life worse, and there's nothing to do with some of them. But as disgusting as the law or the amendment of the law has not been shown to us at some point in time. I should, however, first of all make it clear what kind of government we have to open up this background. Today we have a government in Estonia, a member of which is also a minister who has just left the remote control, a waitress who has discriminated against a large part of the Estonian people with industrial capacity for at least six months. At length, it discriminates against half the Estonian people and explains that it is all okay, so it should be, so it will be. Or, as was the case here in the round of questions: no, it is temporary, it is health-related, this discrimination can be done. The liberals who are in the government today must never be allowed to come to us and tell us anything about discrimination or equal treatment. They have mocked, fired and persecuted people in Estonia all year after they have been in power. This whole year! By political conviction, by medical indications, it's just like that. We have a liberal fascist government in power today, who is simply persecuting people they don't like. And then they come to us, head on our shoulder, whine about persecution. You're not being taken seriously. You're not credible. You're two-faced, cynical, hollow. Never again can reform parties be allowed to tell us anything about discrimination. It doesn't get any glue at all. What you are offering us here has nothing to do with the fight against discrimination. After all, we all understand that this is a Marxist cultural war blob that is once again coming for the Conservatives. There is no difference in whether people are being persecuted or not. It is important to you, point one, to get more money for this society except Pakosta, so that they can deal with incitement to hatred against conservatives and feed their food chain in society, and point two, to be able to harass conservatives, harass Christians, harass people who do not agree with liberal dogmatics, so to speak, the ideological views of the liberal front, as they are advertised to us, with'scientific views'. Now that's the weapon you're bringing us. Then a particularly disgusting and cynical diversion is that we are told something about people with disabilities. It's just a garnish. It's just an embellishment attached here to the fact that the real thing that comes after a person with the whole state power machine is going to hide it somewhere. But we're not getting glued. We don't believe all that. You do not have credibility in the fight against discrimination, because you are the biggest discrimination in Estonia's history. No government in Estonia has so persecuted people in such a way, with such a grave constitutional gesture as today's government. When the Conservative People's Party was in government, we were always told something, I don't know, about the desire of a hard hand, and I don't know, about the threat to democracy that we have. No one was persecuted in Estonia. No one was fired because he is a Reform Party or a Social Democrat or sleeps with one or the other or a third. No one. No demonstrations were scattered with dogs. None! From the first day that the Conservatives began negotiating to go to government, demonstrations were taking place in Estonia. They were ridiculously small, walrus parties, as we say, but no one disbanded them. As the Liberals came to power, dogs and automatics began to disperse the people who expressed their disagreement about government policy. You are the most illiberal, most persecuting, most discriminatory government that has ever been in Estonia. Now you come by this stupid law that you call equal treatment law, and you try to put a hat on us again. No way! We have long seen through all these things, we have seen how it goes in the West, how it goes in Christian churches and forced to kneel before gay marriages, how it goes in to bakers, and how it tells two men to put [images] on cake, how they go and shut down Catholic adoption agencies, because they are not willing to adopt homosexuals. All this we've seen, it's been done for ten years. We know what this anti-discrimination law is for. It's a nuclear weapon of the cultural war that attacks the normal part of society. The normal part of society gets hit with it. We don't agree with this in our lives! This draft law must be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U489	On behalf of the Socialists, Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, After such a passionate performance, it is quite difficult to talk rationally. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] The Social Democrats, despite all the criticism and accusations that have been made here, support the bill. To be honest, I do not understand very well how suddenly [there was] this great interest in these issues in this House by colleagues sitting on the socialist side. This law has been in force for 13 years and basically nothing changes. The definition of trees was in this law 13 years ago. All of these groups, nationality, race, skin colour, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, have long been in this law. And suddenly, if one paragraph is to be split in half, colleagues wake up to how undemocratic and now that the foundation of the Estonian state is a threatening law it is. The Social Democrats welcome the solution by which the prohibition of discrimination extends to areas and groups where [and] it has not existed before. The Social Democrats support the possibility of addressing the Commissioner when people feel they are being discriminated against and only on the basis of the characteristics listed in this law. So many of the questions that sounded here, and those speeches that were passionately reported here, it seems that colleagues have not looked at the law themselves, they have looked only at the one page that contains the changes that have been introduced. I would rather look at the fact that in society we have the problem that people who are discriminated against either in education, in the labour market or in obtaining public services do not go anywhere. They swallow these cases of discrimination and do not ask for protection, do not ask for help, do not seek advice. That is what we should be dealing with, ladies and gentlemen, in order to make people aware that the state in its law protects them when someone starts to discriminate against them. Instead of giving people confidence that nothing will happen to them, that they have the rights that are permitted by the Constitution, we are dealing with the adoption of amendments to the Media Services Act, which promise to incite discrimination and not to protect people from discrimination. At the same time, we recognise that there are shortcomings in this law, which are likely to be corrected by amendments as well as by future amendments to the law. Some of the topics are already worn out. I myself have raised the subject of NGOs to the Minister on my question, because the trade unions are in this law [in letter], and there are no other NGOs. This issue needs to be resolved. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that there will be no supporters of the proposal of the Fatherland and the EKRE in this Chamber. Please support this law, it is very necessary and gives our people additional protection and additional faith that the Estonian state will protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U491	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. Now, the proposal of the commission is to finish the first reading of the draft, but the Conservative People's Party and Isamaa have both proposed to reject the draft. We need to vote this through. Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to remind everyone that we are discussing the draft law on equal treatment initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of the law on churches and congregations 519. I am voting on the proposal by the EKRE Group and the Isamaa Group to reject at first reading the draft law on equal treatment initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of the law on churches and congregations. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U492	22 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 49 against. The proposal was not supported. We have completed the first reading of Bill 519. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 2.15 p.m. on 23 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U493	Our fifth item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws. Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U494	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to stand before the honourable Riigikogu to introduce you to the very long-awaited draft, the so-called draft harmonisation of special services 508 in the field of internal security. Above all, the draft deals with different social guarantees and service regulations for internal security staff and volunteers. The draft amends 14 laws. The preparation of the draft plan started already in 2017 and has been long awaited in the field. The following is an overview of the major changes that the draft will bring. We shall equalise the benefits of volunteers and their family members with those of professional servants and their family members. Volunteers stand shoulder to shoulder with police and rescuers and also risk their lives and health. Equal responsibility must also guarantee equal benefits and treatment. Currently, voluntary benefits are lower because there is no distinction between the loss of life or the loss of working capacity caused by an attack or accident. At present, in both cases, if voluntary deaths occur, their loved ones will be paid ten years' wages. For example, a member of the professional's family is paid 20 years' salary in the event of an attack. Volunteers also have lower compensation for reduced capacity to work. A special servant shall be entitled to a benefit of up to 13 years' salary. The maximum voluntary benefit shall be the average salary of up to seven years. The assistant police officer is not compensated on the basis of his actual salary, but on the basis of the police officer's lowest salary. In the future, the allowance for an auxiliary police officer will also be based on his actual salary and the maximum amount of the allowance will be three times the average salary. We're creating a separate crisis role for relief officers. The crisis reserve to be made up of relief police officers is needed to ensure that in crisis situations, the PBGB and the Ministry of the Interior have sufficient resources to manage the escalation of the crisis or the negative effects of the crisis. The Assistant Police Officer with the role of crisis shall have the right to refuse to work or exercise public authority with the permanent employer during the resolution period and to receive compensation for the loss of remuneration or salary. Support police officers assigned to the crisis reserve are not included in the resources of the Defence League or the Defence Forces, for example. This precludes so-called double planning. The aim is to include 640 people in the crisis reserve in four years. After 2023, we also allow the rescuers to receive an old-age pension benefit for health reasons and extend it to five years instead of the previous three years. Rescue workers must feel that the state understands the nature of their work and appreciates their contribution. As a result of their work to harm their health, we need to support rescue workers who are elderly before their retirement pension, if their health is no longer allowed to continue with their professional work. This means that if, for medical reasons, it is no longer possible for the savior to continue his work, the state will pay an old-age pension waiting allowance up to five years before the retirement age. We are in a situation where the decision adopted in 2008 would put an end to this social guarantee. In summary, we are talking about four to five additional rescuers per year who need support for health reasons. After 2023, we also allow the rescuers to collect an increase in their old-age pension. This is a 10-50% pension supplement for rescue workers with a minimum period of ten years of employment. This means that, for example, for 25 years of service, old-age pension increases by 25%. The change in the pension increase will allow retired rescue workers to take better care of their health, which may be worse due to work detrimental to health than those retired from other professions. We also see that the wages of the rescuers are not yet high enough to allow us to abandon this system. Therefore, we consider it necessary to extend the study to 2043. After 2025, we also allow rescuers to receive a pension for the years they have earned in parallel, i.e. the so-called VAP, while continuing their professional work. Otherwise, there would be a situation in which the savior would have to choose whether to continue in a new profession and receive a VAP or continue saving without a VAP. As a country, we cannot afford to lose men who are fully viable and extremely professionally necessary to another job. The amendment ensures that rescuers do not leave the service. Nor does the change entail a financial cost, since the State will in any case have to pay out the VAP to the rescuer who has left the service. There may be a cost if no change is made because it is difficult to find new rescuers and their training is expensive. The need for all three previous amendments has been stressed by the Rescue Board and the Estonian Salvation Area Workers' Union. We will continue to collect retirement pensions for the years we have earned until 2036. This means that up to 2036 rescuers, policemen and prison officials will collect retirement pensions for the years they have earned. Background: Getting a VAP requires 25 years of service, no other requirements such as age or reduced capacity for work. Similarly, special police pensions were abolished in 2020. Why is this change necessary? At present, the VAP provides a justification for not having to be high enough for the person entering the savior's profession, because in 25 years' time, the VAP will become available. We see the problem that young people no longer want to come to work knowing that in 25 years, they will receive a certain benefit in addition to their salary. The special service's salary must be dignified and valued since the first year. That is why the savior's salary was raised by nearly 12% in 2022 and we need to move forward with this increase at least in the same step to reach the target set for 2025. A valuable salary from the first year on will ultimately guarantee both a higher total income and a pension for the future. The amendment has been made in agreement with the Rescue Board, the PBGB and the Estonian Rescue Area Workers' Trade Union. I would point out that there has indeed been very good cooperation with the various trade unions in making these amendments. Let's put the policemen's salary components into the basic salary. This means that the pay system for police officers will be placed on the same footing with the general public service wage system. At present, the basic salary of a police officer consists of a grade salary, a grade [pay], a regional fee and a level playing field. From now on, the basic salary of a police officer does not consist of components, but is established as a single number. The policeman is paid basic salary, which includes all the current components of the salary. The amendment also means that the police pension will in future be based on the total salary of a police officer, including a step salary, a grade fee, a regional fee and a compensatory fee. The amendments ensure equal treatment of police officers and other special servants, such as prosecutors, defence forces, when determining pensions. Just in case, I mention that the special pension system for police officers has been abolished since 2020. Those who worked before will receive it at the end of their service. We will make the posts of deputies for the Directors-General of the Offices fixed-term. This means that the five-year term of employment will be fixed at the posts of the Deputy Directors-General of the PBGB, the Rescue Board, the Alert Centre and the Defence Police Department. Currently, the service of the Director-General and Prefects of the PBA is of a fixed-term nature, but, for example, the posts of the Deputy Directors-General are of limited duration. The amendment will help the institution to better organise its activities when, for example, a new Director-General comes into service, it will also encourage rotation and increased competence and commitment, it will support the motivation of top management and prevent fatigue and health problems caused by stressful and stressful work. We bring the redundancy allowances for special servants on the same basis as for other officials and staff. Under the current regime, policemen, defence forces and prison officers are paid redundancy benefits, depending on their seniority, for a period of two to ten months, for other officials and for staff, for a month's salary. This distinction is unfounded today because, like all other redundant officials and staff, special servants are entitled to unemployment benefit. We create an opportunity to check the background of a candidate or person involved in the provision of a service to the Ministry of the Interior or to the institutions of his or her area of government. It is necessary to check the data in order to assess the suitability of a person to take up work, internship or service in the administration. The amendment will ensure that there are reliable and sound people working in the administration, who can also be entrusted with information relevant to national security and security. The Police and Border Guard Board will be in charge of the inspection. I think it is important to stress that, compared to the legislation in force, the data collections are not extended, but extended to those whose data are checked. We will introduce a distinction between the release of a police officer suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. The amendment follows from the Supreme Court's judgment of 12 April 2021, according to which the court declared the provision that a police officer suspected or accused in criminal proceedings must be released from service. The amendment allows the driver to decide whether to transfer a police officer to another post or to withdraw him from service. We allow police officers to be transferred to aggregate working hours. This is what we do in order to ensure national security, defence, where necessary, natural disaster, fire, disaster or disaster prevention or remedy its consequences, and to prevent mass disorder. Such cases, if a police officer needs to be transferred to aggregated working hours, are rare in practice and hopefully will continue to be so. This is a very brief overview of the major changes to the draft. I consider it necessary, once again, to thank all the parties involved, the social partners, the internal security authorities, the people of the ministry, the previous ministers who have all contributed to this package. I have already touched on trade unions with whom there has been very good cooperation. Thanks for listening, and I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U495	The first question is asked by Merry Aart. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U496	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Nine grades instead of seventeen grades, the basic salary instead of the salary. A bit of this was already mentioned, but in the interests of a better understanding, please explain with practical examples what this means when it comes to paying a police officer. Perhaps some practical examples to understand better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U497	Thank you. Take, for example, the usual patrol police officer, whose salary consists of a degree[salary], a regional fee, a service fee In fact, both the Ministry of Finance and the National Audit Office have already indicated that the wage system is not transparent because [wage] is made up of several components. In the future, the policeman's salary will be made up of a specific salary number, which in turn already includes all the components of the salary that I have read now. The same system exists for prosecutors, for example, and the same system exists for defence forces. This change has already been made here in previous years to ensure that the system is more transparent and that it is understandable that it is specifically the salary of this official. The situation is also such that the salary of an official in a particular post may also be lower, middle or higher, so that different grades are still created into a specific post. It is also important that officials still entitled to a special pension, in this form, also have the basis for calculating the basic amount of the special pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U498	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U499	Thank you. Dear Minister, There's a question about extra holidays in this bill. If we look at today's situation, both the rescuers and the police will get extra days off for a career. It is precisely [written], several years ago and how much. But when we talk about harmonisation in this law, for example, prison officials get [these days] for psychoemotional tension. So, what's it gonna be, like, a career or psycho-emotional tension? After all, it has also been said that it is the authority of the head of the institution that it is no longer clearly stated in the law. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U500	Indeed, it is the case that this mandate is delegated to the so-called head of the body. At the same time, as far as I have talked to the heads of institutions, the same system, broadly speaking, that an additional ten days of leave can be obtained, continues. I cannot honestly say here why it has been described in the same way by prison workers and by police officers in a different way. But indeed, such a change will be introduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U501	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U502	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. A section on background check has been added in several parts of this section. I am interested in what did not occur in the earlier law and what needed to be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U503	Thank you. It is possible to check the background of the so-called special servants: police officers, rescue officers, for example, are able to do so, but, for example, a rescue officer as a so-called servant cannot control it. If you hire a clean-up person who can go to the entire police building and clean up all the rooms, the law does not allow you to check his background. So these are the differences. Currently, it is possible to check the background of all special servants, police officers, but for example a police officer, a staff member of the ATS [under] police system must not be checked. The law now introduces the possibility that others who are not special servants can also check the background.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U504	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U505	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I ask about the impact of this bill on the state budget, or the RES. Indeed, there are a series of pages back here that show the effects of different prohibitions. As regards pensions, it could be said that it is intended to be saved by 2037 to 2066. But let's look at the next four years. What's the overall effect? I couldn't find it, or I didn't bring it out here. How are your hopes covered?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U506	Thank you. Indeed, you yourself mentioned that savings will arise between 2037 and 2066. This saving amounts to EUR 343 million. If we talk in the short term, the cost of waiting for a retirement pension for rescue workers in 2023 to 2026 is EUR 1.3 million, the cost of increasing an old-age pension for the rescue service is EUR 600000. It is important to note that, from 2060 onwards, the estimated cost of a police pension under the current law and after the entry into force of the amendments, is no longer expected to be EUR 5,7 million between 2022 and 2025. These are the specific costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U507	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U508	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will touch this on the saddest part of my question when life is lost in the performance of my duties. When it comes to volunteering, you also pointed out that there is now a change that compensation is no longer based on average wages, but on actual wages. That's how I got my ears. Why don't you explain once more what such a change is or how it's justified? Has that been a problem? Why have we chosen this direction, and what could it mean in real life?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U509	Thank you for your question. I very much hope that in real life, this means nothing that we should not have to cover such costs. But the reason is that relief policemen, volunteers and squirtmen carry out very much of the same tasks and are also in situations where their lives may be threatened by an accident or an attack. It is reasonable that compensation for a person who is injured, or if he dies, for his family members, would be on the same footing as for professional rescuers or real police officers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U510	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U511	Thank you. I will come back to the same question once again. The law now grants the right to extra holidays to the head of the institution, but right now the police and rescuers are confident that if they have worked so much, so many extra holidays they will get. After all, it may now depend on the discretion of the head of the institution or on the liking of the head of the institution. In fact, people's confidence decreases. Here's another question. Let's talk about the pay of the rescuers, the minimum wage they have is 1190 if I'm not mistaken. You're saying it should be dignified, but I think it's worth at least 120% of the average salary. We're moving towards a lower and lower ratio than the average wage.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U512	Thank you. Indeed, this year the minimum wage for rescuers is 1190, which is 12% higher than it was last year. Of course, in order to achieve the vision we have to have a minimum wage for internal security in 2024 by 2025, there is still a great deal of effort needed. It is also true that the average salary moves faster than we have been able to raise wages in internal security. So it continues to be a very great ambition to help savers' wages even further. Above all, I am thinking of the minimum wage. But once again: this year, the saviours in the state budget have a very decent one, of course, this salary needs an even greater increase, but still a 12% increase. As regards the delegation of the 10-day extra leave option or the so-called authorisation of the heads of institutions, I simply sincerely believe that no one will abuse it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U513	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U514	Thank you. It talks about the calculation of the term of office of the Deputy Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Deputy Director-General of the Special Branch. It is stated here that the Deputy Director-General of the PBGB and the Deputy Director of the Defence Police Department, serving from 2022, will be considered to be in office until 2027. What happens after 2027?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U515	Thank you. Here is the logic that the service of today's deputies of the Director General will be read from the entry into force of the law plus five years. Maybe their term of office ends in 2027, I mean the deputies of the Directors-General. After that, it is possible to either extend or a new Deputy Director-General is elected.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U516	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U517	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! How does this law currently being dealt with extend to those people who have been illegally fired or forced to leave for not accepting an injection? If you say that they will also receive compensation under this law, we will deal with it very quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U518	Yes, those officials who have been released, in particular we are talking about 38 people in the PBA, have been exempted on the basis that there is a valid risk analysis, a risk analysis of the working environment, which states that, at certain positions in the PBA, these were practically all jobs subject to vaccination. These people in this risk analysis are still valid at the present time, have not been vaccinated and have indeed been released. Risk analysis is not arbitrary, it is done by law, it is an obligation and organisations must have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U519	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U520	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. That's a good one, I don't know how long it's been. It says here that harmonisation and equal treatment and all that we are cutting red tape. It doesn't exactly say how much one thing or another. But the question is: if there are nine grades instead of 17, what is the point? What's the point? We'll reduce it today. We'll increase it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U521	Thank you for your question. The idea is simplification of the system, transparency so that there is not so much bureaucracy and 17 levels of pay, but pay ranges. That is what makes the system easier, reduces red tape and saves human working hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U522	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U523	Well, I'm still extremely skeptical about the legality of your risk analysis. In my opinion, it has also been assessed by a court when it granted the initial legal protection to those dismissed. Consequently, risk analysis may be mandatory for many public authorities under government regulation, but risk analysis in itself cannot serve as a basis for triggering people. So I think you should think very seriously about how you compensate for the material and spiritual suffering that these people suffer. And write it in this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U524	Thank you. Risk analysis is not government regulation, but risk analysis is based on the Biological Hazards Act. Organisations are obliged to carry out such risk analysis. I have also asked for it to be renewed, because the risk analysis must be flexible and also take into account the changing environment that we have here. When we talk about judgments, we do not yet have any substantive judgments. I'd look forward to them too. The court has indeed, as you have also mentioned, given the original legal protection of 59 officials and, in some cases, asked the employer and the person to find a compromise between themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U525	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U526	Thank you. I would still like to clarify the terms of office of the Deputy Director-General of the Capo and the PBA. If, at the beginning of this year, they are considered to have five years of service or how long they may still be [in office], what will happen in the future? Is this place fixed-term or indeterminate time, how will it be set out in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U527	Today is an indefinite date, if the law enters into force, then it is a time limit. They are automatically appointed for five years from the date of entry into force of the Act. When the five years are over, their term of office expires. The next one is five years old again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U528	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U529	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said that salaries would be harmonised and changed. Does this lead to a restructuring of the work of these organisations, i.e. structural changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U530	No, this change of law does not involve structural changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U531	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U532	Thank you. Henn Põllaas asked me a lot of questions, but I'm still asking for more detail. The question concerns the term of office of the Deputy Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Deputy Director-General of the Defence Police Department. It will be a time-limit in the future, i.e. five years will be that time-limit. But we know that the Riigikogu does not appoint them, even more so, they are not approved by law. This time it's different. Now, by law, we're calling them five years. Tell me, if there is a need to release these people early, for various reasons, then who is competent to do so when we in the Riigikogu, at law level, we call them five years. I imagine that neither the minister, nor the government, nor anyone else can release them. What is it legally supposed to look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U533	The law provides a time limit for a specific post, but in this case the Minister of the Interior specifically proposes and appoints the Minister of the Interior. The term of office is set by law, but the person is still appointed by someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U534	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U535	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. There's a lot of interesting lithographs, tables, and so on. But tell me, what is the point of this table, which says, for example, how much it takes for more than four hours to survive or demolish food. For example, one year is 38865 and 8 cents, and the next year is 35108 and 75 cents. What is this table supposed to show, and is it wise to put this kind of finesse here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U536	Thank you for your question. I know what you mean. The draft law on harmonisation of special services also introduces an amendment to the fact that, for example, when police officers are involved in some sort of police activities and are catered for in the course of these activities, this catering is not taxed separately. Currently, the catering of a police officer should be subject to a special preferential tax. For example, if there is a job where you cannot leave the position and the employer has to bring you food at work, in which case the purchase of this food is subject to a special tax. Rescue workers, for example, do not have such a distinction in their rescue work. This table shows how much this cost could be additional if the same difference were to apply to police officers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U537	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U538	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Explain to me, please. Maybe it's a mess. If, now, this law enters into force retroactively, will those leaders who, for example, are coming to an end next year's term of office start to apply again for the five-year period and will it be extended as if they were in office? Or how is this going to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U539	Thank you for your question. It has no retroactive effect. Once again, when the law enters into force, those people who are in a fixed-term position, in terms of the future, deputies of the Director-General, from this moment on, will simply start running this new deadline. There is no time limit at all, with the entry into force of the law starting to run this five-year period of service.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U540	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U541	Thank you. Honourable Minister! I ask, you answer, but one is talking about the garden, the other is about the garden hole. I didn't get an answer to my question, even though you talk almost as fluently as Tanel Rock. I understand that at the moment, no particular person is appointed by the Riigikogu. But it says here: Deputy Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board serving on 1 July, Director General of the Defence Police Department [Deputy Actor]. We will secure those specific people who have already been appointed on that day for five years. My question was that this is exceptional, it is now at the time of the adoption of the law that, at the level of the Riigikogu Act, these specific people are appointed, giving them the guarantee that they are in office. All right, we'll make the guarantee. These specific people, I understand, can also be released early then only the Riigikogu. Don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U542	Thank you. I would first point out that this draft law does not concern the Directors-General, they already have [this way], but the Deputy Directors-General. We probably just understand it in different ways. Once again, the law defines the term of a specific post, but the law does not define who will fill it. The role of the Riigikogu, and the role of the Riigikogu, does not exist at the level of the law. Maybe the wording needs to be improved, but the way I explain it to you, he's meant to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U543	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U544	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, We've been discussing the deputies of the Director-General on the PBA and the hood, but we still have offices like the Rescue Board. I understand this doesn't concern the deputy director-in-chief of the Rescue Board. Perhaps you can open up this consideration, why in one case must it touch and in the other case it does not have to?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U545	Thank you for your question. This concerns all Deputy Directors-General, including the Rescue Board and the Alert Centre, in the area of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. All of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U546	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U547	Yes, thank you! I'm going to be a little more specific about these grades. Let me get this straight. If the pay for the steps right now is, for example, the sum of x, and if you switch to the basic salary, then that amount of x will remain, at least the minimum, and there's going to be something to it if there's anything else to come up with? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U548	Basically.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U549	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U550	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U551	It is now time to listen to the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U552	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Minister presented the draft in a very thorough manner here. All these important points, which were also being discussed in the Commission, he pointed out. Maybe that's why we're not gonna go over everything here. To begin with, we discussed the draft at 508 two Commission meetings: the first on 25 January and the second on 7 February. The debate in the Commission was thorough, precisely in the sense that the Minister made a thorough presentation. After listening to this report and answering questions, the Commission also took decisions. It was decided to put draft 508 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 9 February, appoint Heljo Pikhof, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to propose that the first reading be closed and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 12 noon on 23 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U553	Looks like your colleagues don't have any questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak. Is it? Heljo Pikhof wishes to speak on behalf of the Socialists. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U554	I realized earlier that Sulev Kannimäe wanted to give a speech, but you took out [his name]. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! In order for the draft under discussion to reach the grand hall of the Riigikogu, the long and thorough work has been preceded, lasting for many years. I am pleased that this has been the result of cooperation with both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Social Affairs and, of course, the union of rescue workers. The draft harmonises, as far as possible, the service regulations of police officers and rescue staff and other special servants and the social guarantees of volunteers in the area of administration of the Ministry of the Interior. One very good consequence of the entry into force of this bill as a law is probably that the draft will encourage volunteering and also ensure equal treatment between volunteers and professionals. At the same time, the creation of crisis assistance for police officers is a step in the right direction. For years, we have been talking about the need to harmonise the level of compensation in the event of the injury or death of volunteers and professional rescuers, both in the event of an attack and in the event of an accident. If, in today's regulation, the compensation for volunteers in this case is ten years' salary and 20 years' salary in the case of professional rescuers, the amendment will result in 20 years' salary in both cases. This amendment concerns relief police, voluntary rescuers, alert center volunteers, voluntary marine rescuers and persons involved in secret cooperation. Social Democrats also consider it important to make favourable changes to the pension for the years earned by the rescuers, as well as to allow for an old-age pension waiting allowance in the past. The draft provides for an increased old-age pension and pension waiting allowance for rescuers beyond 2023 and allows rescuers to receive a earned pension after 2025. Despite the dangerous and health-damaging work of rescuers, they also have a public retirement age, but for health reasons the savior can retire up to three years earlier than the national retirement age would allow. At the same time, it proposes extending the possibility of early retirement to five years for health reasons. That makes perfect sense, given the nature of the work. The draft also allows retired rescue workers to increase their pension according to their retirement status. The collection of earned retirement age will be abolished after 2036. As the Minister said here on the floor, the idea is that people who guarantee internal security must be paid a higher salary while they are working, rather than being [compensated] in the future only by paying their pension. The Minister also said here that the bill states that the police pension is based on the total salary of a police officer, which is justified once again. We also know that the policeman's salary now consists of different levels and systems, but in the future it will consist of only one specific number, which will serve as a basis for calculating the special pension. According to similar principles, special pensions are also calculated for prosecutors and military personnel. Now maybe more so... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U555	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U556	... the pension for the years earned shall be calculated on the basis of the most favourable option chosen from the salary of the last five years. If we move on from here, we'll be honest, the responsibility of the rescuers and the policemen and the wages aren't exactly correlated right now. The salary of internal security staff must be well-equipped when they get to work, today and now. We have repeatedly raised the issue of pay here in the Riigikogu as social democrats and have made corresponding improvements in the state budget. Speaking of figures, last year the savior's minimum wage was 78%, this year 75% of the country's average. The ratio of the policeman's minimum wage to the average was 87%, and this year it is only 82%. That's where the question arises as to when this ratio to the average salary is going to be so that we can say that the job of a policeman and a savior is also valued with money. If we want to get more strong players in the field of internal security, we should take major steps today to achieve the objective in the coming years: the minimum wage of rescuers and police officers must be at least 120% of the Estonian average. That is the position of the Socialists. I have spoken to the saviors, I think that many of you from this Riigikogu hall have done this, they have said, and I agree with them that their pay does not allow for human survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U557	I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 508. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 12 noon on 23 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U558	Our sixth item today is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Accession of the Republic of Austria, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the French Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany, particularly in the fight against terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal migration to enhance cross-border cooperation with the Treaty. Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U559	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you to the draft, the full name of which I will say once, just as the Honorable President did: the draft law amending the Act on Accession to the Treaty to enhance cross-border cooperation between the Republic of Austria, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the French Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany, in particular in the fight against terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal migration. In short, it is the Prüm bill and I think it says a little more to many. In the background first. The Prüm mechanism aims to improve cross-border cooperation between police and judicial authorities in the Member States of the European Union. By its very nature, it is divided into two parts, offering opportunities for automated data exchange and cross-border police cooperation. Prüm is an exceptionally successful tool in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. This draft does not directly concern either area or have any substantive effect insofar as it is a technical draft. The draft introduces one amendment: the law excludes specifically designated national contact points and subsequently the Government of the Republic has the power to establish them. This will avoid a situation where the law should be amended every time contact points need to be renewed. Following the entry into force of the draft, the Government of the Republic will make three changes to the contact points through its organisation. The Road Administration will be replaced by the Transport Department. Instead of the Information and Analysis Department of the Ministry of Interior, the contact point will be the Police and Border Guard Board, which will also carry out these tasks in practice on a daily basis. Those amendments are necessary as from 1 January 2021 the Maritime Administration, the Air Administration and the Road Administration were merged into the Transport Department and the aforementioned department no longer exists in the Ministry of Internal Affairs since 2012. Thank you for listening, and if necessary, I am ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U560	But there aren't any. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U561	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U562	On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we will be introduced to the Prüm contract by Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U563	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Officials of the Committee on Legal Affairs! The preparation for the first reading of the draft presented by the Minister for the Interior was held in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 25 January. On behalf of the Ministry, the Minister of the Interior himself participated, along with Counselor Lõhmus and Legal Advisor Kass and the Legal Affairs Committee officials. As we know, an agreement was signed in 2005 in the German city of Prüm to enhance cross-border cooperation aimed and aimed at combating terrorism, cross-border crime and irregular migration. Estonia joined this agreement in 2008. Now this law of accession to the Treaty will be slightly amended, as you have just heard from the Minister. As the Minister also mentioned, the proposed amendments are purely technical in nature. Let it be said once again that a good prerequisite for cooperation in the fight against terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal migration is a continuous and rapid exchange of data and effective contacts. This draft amends the existing contact points in the agreement due to changes in the names and structure of the agencies. As such technical changes may continue to occur, the power to establish contact points will be conferred on the Government of the Republic for the future, which is logical. The Commission also had some specific questions. We learned from the Minister's replies that there is no plan to create more contact points, and these remain the institutions that have just been mentioned. Procedural decisions were also taken: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 9 February, to appoint Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to propose that the first reading be closed and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 12 noon on 23 February. The decisions were made by Jürgenson, Kannimäe, Karilaid, Kaskpeit, Pikhof, Tiidus and Toomast. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U564	Peter Ernits would like to clarify something. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U565	Good manager! I have a few questions. The first is that everything is nice, these fingerprints, and I don't know if it's connected to ABIS at large. But as far as I can remember, the Prüm Treaty was signed in 1855. Is this bill so old that we are discussing and supplementing here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U566	Dear Peeter Ernits! You're asking about age. According to my information, this Prüm Treaty, at least as far as is known, was signed in 2005 and Estonia joined this Treaty in 2008. That's the way it should be. The minister nods, so it's true.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U567	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U568	Yeah, I don't know, I don't think the Commission discussed it, but check it out. The Prüm Treaty was signed in 1855. But if the Government of the Republic discussed this on 25 February 2021, what was done during this year? Did Ragnar Cat and Heike Olmre do this for a year to get here today? These are the officials who have prepared it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U569	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was dealt with by the Commission at the time of its arrival. As has been said here, these technical changes relate to how the names and structure of the institutions changed last year and last year. So everyone's been at the right pace and rhythm.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U570	Thank you. No further questions. To Mr Ernits, I can assure him once again that both the rapporteur and the Minister's nod is true: on 27 May 2005, a contract was signed in Prüm, which we are now specifying here. Prüm contracts may be different. Now, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. You don't see any other wishes. Therefore, we have completed the first reading of the draft 509. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 12 noon on 23 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U571	Moving to agenda item 7: Draft Law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 499. At first reading, the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, will introduce it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U572	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs. The purpose of this law is to bring the feed law into line with the new EU regulation on medicated feed, which replaces the existing directive regulating the production, placing on the market and use of medicated feed. The Medicated Feed Regulation is part of a so-called package of veterinary medicinal products, the joint objective of which is to limit the spread of antimicrobial resistance. The restriction measure is, for example, a ban on the use of medicated feed for prophylactic purposes or to compensate for poor housing conditions. The requirements for medicated feed have not changed significantly compared to the current legislation. At the same time, the scope of the new Medicated Feed Regulation is wider, allowing the production of proper medicated feed for pets in addition to farmed animals. In order not to duplicate the provisions of the directly applicable Regulation, it is necessary to amend or repeal the relevant provisions of the feed law. What is proposed in the draft? Specify the definition of "medicated feed' as feed containing the veterinary medicinal product to be fed to the animal. The term "intermediate product', which is a feed containing a veterinary medicinal product intended for the manufacture of medicated feed, is added. Specify the undertaking's obligation to hold a licence. For example, an undertaking must be authorised to carry out the production and placing on the market of medicated feed or an intermediate product. The undertaking's obligation to provide an economic operator's notification shall also be specified. For example, an undertaking must submit an economic notification if it stores and transports purchased medicated feed intended for its own business or sells medicated feed intended for pets. The requirements for the prescription of medicated feed shall also be laid down. Among other things, the Minister responsible for the sector will be empowered to lay down more detailed requirements, including the content and format of the veterinary prescription, to establish a link with the Waste Act to ensure the proper management of outdated and unused medicated feed or intermediate product as waste. The maximum penalty rates for legal persons will be updated, a new liability provision will be added, before it was in the Pharmaceutical Act, i.e. a provision on non-compliance with the requirements for the prescription of medicated feed. The administrative burden on feed business operators, as envisaged by the draft, is not significantly affected as the submission of an application for authorisation or an economic activity notification is a one-off activity. As the principles for the production of medicated feed remain broadly the same, there is no need for companies already operating to make additional investments. Due to a possible slight increase in the number of operators, changes in the internal organisation and operation of the Agriculture and Food Board may be expected depending on the duties and nature of the officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U573	Aivar Chef would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U574	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister's regulation on the draft, which is very good practice. But I can't find one thing. This law states very clearly that the requirements for the handling and use of medicated feed and the intermediate product are laid down in Chapter IV of Regulation 2019/4 of the European Parliament and of the Council. I don't see that chapter in this bill. We are adopting a law, but it is not clear what really needs to be used in handling. Where do we have to look for this regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council? It's supposed to be here under the law. If he is not here at first reading, then there should certainly be a second reading, because how do we vote if we do not know what we are voting for?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U575	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I am indebted to your comment now, although I pointed out that there are no major changes to it. The issue is also that we must adopt this law in parallel at the moment when the Ministry of Social Affairs has also reached this hall with its draft. They must take effect at the same time, as entry into force can only take place after the Ministry of Social Affairs has moved forward with its law. It is certain that the rules in force in the manufacture of medicated feed are also the result of the European Union pharmaceutical law. But I'll take your point and pass it on. I hope that during the second reading or before the second reading you will have the opportunity to get to know it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U576	Before I give the floor to Mr Ernits, since this [theme] has been raised earlier in this Chamber in the course of the procedure, I inform Mr Kokka that not all the legislation referred to in the drafts will, of course, be brought into this Chamber. This [theme] has been here before as a procedure. I understand, however, that Mr. Chef wishes to continue the procedural dispute with me, and I am happy to continue. The technique of reference is generally specified in the norm. Well, I don't know if we're going to do school here now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U577	No, we're not. I just want to draw the President's attention to the fact that it is not a matter of reference, but it is clearly written here that the requirements for the handling and use of medicated feed and the intermediate product. However, the demands have not been made, but they have been added to it, and I do not know that there is a need to go somewhere in the European Union to look at something there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U578	Yeah, Mr. Chef, you just said...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U579	It's not a reference in this sense, like...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U580	It's a direct reference. It's a direct reference, so I think if there's a wish, we can... Surely good helpers will help you with your routine. You said earlier on this board that you're not an expert on everything. I quite believe that. Legal disputes about what to refer to and how to bring them into this hall, I think that neither the Minister nor you need to argue about it now, it really does not have to be here. But since it was a procedure we once discussed in this room, let's just go over it for a second. Mr. Ernits, your question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U581	Yeah. Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Yes, as I understand it, Directive 90/167/EEC will end life and Regulation (EU) 2019/4 will begin. By the way, the deadline for transposition is already over, 28 January. But I see that fur animals have been introduced here, pets are still here, but fur animals have already been sentenced to death. Why is that? What would happen if we didn't take it? I have no doubt that this is necessary. But why don't you explain it a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U582	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Indeed, you referred to fur animals. This [theme] was dealt with in the Riigikogu. I think you've noticed, in part, that it's not forbidden to keep them as pets. This means that although medicated feed is currently not sold in Estonia in the sense that it could be administered to pets, in the future this desire to produce, handle, mediate, sell and also to treat it in a certain sense will certainly arise. It is therefore necessary for this regulation to work and for things to be clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U583	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U584	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Since we were discussing whether or not there had to be something in the law, I'd ask you differently. The amendment No 5 states that the requirements for the handling and use of medicated feed and an intermediate product are laid down in a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. Didn't they used to be in the law, and now we're just taking them over?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U585	Thank you. As I was referring to, before this European law was introduced, the European Union regulation on medicated feed had activities in various laws. That is why I also referred to the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs has to deal with amendments to the pharmaceutical law. Then there will also be some legislative arrangements here. Because of this, we need to go over these things completely. Can't say nothing's ever happened before. But it is also true that, if we look at the whole legislation in a broader context, including in terms of the European Union, from time to time the law clarifies or adds to it activities that, for example, at the time of the adoption of the law or in previous years were not relevant or topical.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U586	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U587	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Would you like to give an overview of the volume of medicated feedingstuffs that are moving on the Estonian market? It shouldn't be that big. However, once again, if you look at these sanctions, if someone is violating, there are 300 fine units available here, but it has been pointed out that it is enough of 200. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U588	Thank you, good questioner! There are nine medicated feed producers in Estonia. In very many cases it is used for certain prophylactic purposes, such as pig rearing and piglets diarrhoea. It can therefore be said that there is no very wide-ranging use in a sense. There has also been one zinc oxide used in pig farming, which can no longer be dealt with in the future, i.e. since 26 June. There has been one very important objective here as to why it needs to be regulated more precisely. It is also linked to avoiding so-called resistance in the future. This issue may be too underrated. This means that animal welfare and other elements than feed for prophylactic and animal welfare improvement [for animal welfare purposes] should be addressed. So here, too, a forward-looking change of understanding is very important, and it is certainly a necessary change in all aspects. But you were talking about fines. If I remember and quote correctly, then it is the case that the penalty cannot be higher than the penalty afterwards, that the new penalty rates are higher and that they have been brought into line with realistic legislation. If I remember correctly, the maximum penalty was 9600 euros. The question is, these are the maximum rates. The first step is not to impose a fine, but to draw attention. These ranges provide flexibility, but on the other hand also give a signal that, if repeated or not to a large extent, such penalties may also be imposed. But they're gonna charge you first, and then they're gonna get you fined.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U589	Now Vice-Chairman of the Rural Commission, Merry Aart. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U590	Ladies and gentlemen, Good simple law, no changes very much. This issue was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs on 24 January. As the Minister has already said, the directive has become a direct regulation of the European Union and, in this context, these conditions and rules will be introduced from the pharmaceutical law into the feed law. The Rural Affairs Committee has turned to the cooperation partners: the Estonian Agricultural Chamber of Commerce, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, the Estonian Association of Circular Economy Enterprises, the Estonian Society of Veterinarians, the Estonian Society of Veterinarians, the [Eesti] Association of Veterinary Medicinal Products Wholesalers and the Estonian Association of Pharmacists. Responses and proposals are expected by 23 February, so there will be some time. There are no substantive changes here, except for the updating of the penalty rates. There were some individual questions that were not very, let's say, substantive. Ivari Padar asked if this law would change the administrative burden. The answer to that was not much. Merry Aart noted that the wording of this law is relatively complex and difficult to understand. On this point, the Ministry of Rural Affairs said that, since there are references to European legislation in this section, the language is perhaps a bit clumsy. Tarmo Tamm wondered if it was customary for people to be sold animal medicine from a pharmacy. In addition, the Ministry of Rural Affairs replied that yes, it is because we have very few veraphim in Estonia and we need to buy them somewhere. There you go. The Committee on Rural Affairs decided to appoint Merry Aart, Vice-Chairman of the Rural Commission, as the representative of the 499 lead committee, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for today and to propose that the 499 first reading be terminated. All the decisions were consensual. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U591	Yes, gentlemen, do you have any questions for Merry Aart or just each other? Got it. Merry, there are no questions for you. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 499. We have finished our first reading and will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 2.15 p.m. on 23 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U592	Our eighth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like a presentation from Secretary of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimethus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U593	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It's a pleasure to be here again in this beautiful evening's hour. Before you has been prepared for a long time and prepared in cooperation with the sector to amend the tax administration law [the law]. The desire to develop this draft is due to the need to reduce VAT fraud and the payment of envelope wages in the construction sector. This is one of the problems that has been brought to the attention of the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs for years. For them, the introduction of a single worker card is important, which would increase transparency and help to fix the time spent on the construction site for all workers. According to this draft, reporting will cover larger constructions for which the highest tax risks have been identified. The main contractor's obligation remains to register the work object and rent it if it does not yet exist a suitable registration system. It is the responsibility of all construction companies to register their subcontractors, also to obtain a worker's card for employees and to ensure that they fix entry and exit on the site. In the case of subcontractors, it is the responsibility of the subcontractor to register the presence of persons on the construction site if the period of work is longer than one month and in places where at least 20 persons are employed simultaneously. If this is taken into account in working hours, the reporting in working hours shall cover construction work with a duration of more than 500 working days. The registration system provides daily information on the length of time each person was present on the construction site on the previous day. At least three times a week, this registration system shall transmit data on the time of entry and exit to the construction site in an unpersonal form. It is important that workers' data be collected at the minimum necessary level, which would also mitigate the risk of data distortion. In order to keep the administrative burden at a reasonable level, a large part of the data is pre-filled from, for example, the data from the work register, as well as from the construction register, the business register, the public procurement register, the police and border guards' office and the labour inspectorate's databases. In order to ensure that the thresholds for reporting obligations are and indeed remain optimal, we are planning to review them no later than three years later and then, together with the sector, to assess the impact of the thresholds imposed on the construction sector and to review whether there are grounds for changing the thresholds set and how they are most appropriate. The draft law submitted to you is scheduled to enter into force on October 1, 2023. Of course, the Tax and Customs Board is also constantly working with both the Labour Inspectorate and the Police and Border Guard Board to check the construction sector, but the greatest complexity that the parties have pointed out is precisely the opaque working chain that you are facing with the draft solution. I am pretty sure that all of you in this Chamber now agree that tax fraud or illegal tax advantages do not serve the interests of the State and that is why this proposed amendment of the law is necessary for you. Thank you. I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U594	But first, the members of the Riigikogu ask. Aivar Chef begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U595	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You mentioned 30 working days, 20 persons and 500 working days. If you read this bill now, it says, "over 30 working days and..." If it's not there, it's like you don't have to do it, I get it. On the other hand, 500 working days actually one person has three months. Are the two conditions to be met, or how is it? When I read it in Estonian, there is a "ja" and there is a "butter" between the next two points.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U596	Yeah, 500, that's not... Yeah, 500 working days. Here, however, it is clearly understood that both of these conditions must be met, i.e. construction works which last longer than one month and at the same time there are at least 20 people on the site must be registered. The two conditions must be met: they last for more than one month and at the same time, in addition to having more than one month, there are at least 20 people on the site. Perhaps if there is a job that lasts longer than one month but is done by one person or by two people, it does not fall under its regulation, or it does not have to be registered in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U597	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U598	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I understand this bill is to fill this $20 million tax hole or to get $20 million. 170,000, I read here, there are construction companies. But to watch them all, as you write here, it doesn't make sense, it would exhaust the supervisory bodies and the money wouldn't come. What's the recipe for success to get this $20 million from those 170000 construction companies that also use foreign workers and all that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U599	Thank you for your question. This check will also be tried and reduced in the current legal framework. This specific proposal, concerning the determination of the time spent on the construction site and the definition of the labour chain in the construction sector, has developed, in cooperation with the construction sector, an additional way to increase transparency and how to close the current existing tax gap, both in terms of labour taxes and VAT, and how this unfair... Whether it can be called tax competition at all, we would rather say how to reduce unfair tax payments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U600	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U601	Good manager! Dear Minister, There's a little problem with this bill. The Public Procurement Act makes it very clear what the contracting authority's tasks are. I understand that the customer simply doesn't fill them, and that's why something needs to be done. I remember that, under the leadership of the Social Affairs Committee, [the debate] was about how to control, if people are not on the construction site, they are from Ukraine or elsewhere. The Labour Inspectorate received these tasks, i.e. the Labour Inspectorate cannot do its job. Two organisations fail, and the third is a public limited company that cannot manage to control the subcontractors. We are now imposing an obligation on entrepreneurs to pay EUR 400 every month to set up a smart card reader. I'm reading that point you explained to me. It also says that "or" 500 hours of human work, that is to say, for one person three months [in the course of] must still put it in a card reader, or for two people in a month and a half. Somehow, there are two places where the bill is amended: 30 working days plus 500 hours of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U602	Thank you. First of all, as regards the fact that the main contractor is already responsible for the subcontractors, and as to whether it is necessary at all, in the case of public procurement, too, this is indeed the case, the inspection confirms that there are situations in which the subject matter of public procurement is still subject to taxation and, unfortunately, has not been prevented by the current public procurement law. The current controls carried out by the Tax and Customs Board have also focused on larger and more complex public procurement objects in public procurement. For example, when it comes to the current obligation to register employees, the checks carried out in the previous year show that the objects controlled by the Tax and Customs Board had 6% of the staff checked in the previous year not registered. Unfortunately, the rules apply, but unfortunately, not all of them are still sticking to them. That is why this change is really necessary. You, too, referred to businesses and businesses and whether this is perhaps too much of a burden on them. This is one of the changes that have been proposed by the companies themselves, and which the Association of Construction Undertakings considers very important, precisely because there is no situation where some pay fair tax and are therefore in a more competitive situation. This is a proposal that the sector itself supports. I believe that this is a necessary change.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U603	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U604	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U605	Vice-Chairman of the Finance Commission, Aivar Kokk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U606	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Finance Committee discussed the preparation for the first reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act, i.e. the provision of construction data [the Act], at its meeting on 24 January. The draft was presented by the representative of the initiators, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday, 9 February, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the amendments be tabled on 10 working days, which is at 2.15 p.m. on 23 February. There were some questions in the Commission, to which the Minister replied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U607	Looks like there's no more questions in the hall. I'm opening negotiations. I understand that a light jogging step goes and hits [button] Aivar Chef. On behalf of the Fatherland Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U608	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Is there a need for a draft law that hopes that there will be fair competition in construction business? I'm sure you do. But can it be accepted that certain public authorities, which have to control, cannot carry out their work, and then these obligations are imposed on economic operators? I don't know if that's quite right. I remember when there was a debate in the previous composition of the Social Committee that when there is a labour force crossing the border who has not registered or who does not have a permit, the Labour Inspectorate could go to the construction site and check it out. It was a big fight and an argument at the time. Somehow they didn't want it on the side of the ministry, but we made that decision on the committee, and it was written into the law. This means that the Labour Inspectorate has all the rights to go to the construction site to check whether there is a work permit, whether it is ready for work and everything else. The other side is that the biggest fight in this Chamber during the previous term was the Public Procurement Act. It was rejected at third reading and then adopted in a few weeks. There was one important point which, of course, was most concerned about by the public limited company. The contracting authority is responsible for the subject, while the main contractor must register his subcontractors and the subcontractor must write down to the contracting authority all who he has at work. All the laws are in place. The IRS always has the right to go to the object, there's nothing to discuss. Now we are making a law whereby an entrepreneur has to buy cards for a card reader and for all his employees. I'll come to work in the morning, I'll pull through, and I'll quit my job tonight, I'll pull through. Very good in one way. But if taxes have not been paid and employees have not been formalised so far, why do we think they're going to go to the card reader and pull through their cards? It's exactly the same with those who work blackly on the object. At the committee meeting, I also asked the Minister why we believe that large objects are paying this black money for wages. There [move] the money still with the bills. The contracting authority, the public authority, cannot pay anyone in cash and do not pay or not pay invoices. It usually happens on small objects. If you're gonna build yourself a house and order a construction company, you know all the merchandise there. Why did I ask you twice about the point under which there must be something? One house is usually built with one, two or three men. There's no more. Then there's a plumber going in between, then an electrician and a cripple, and sometimes someone puts gas. There's no control over them. Let's be honest, there's the most money laundering in this system, or tax evasion. So who'd like to pay more? You'll get VAT cheaper, maybe you'll get some tax cheaper. But that's not what we're regulating. Of course, large construction companies want this law for a very simple reason: there will be no obligation for the main contractor. Very many of the main contractors in Estonia are purely lawyers and budget managers. Well, they also have a brigade of construction workers, and the rest is done by subcontracting. They don't have any costs, and even if they do, in theory, that a 400-euro card reader needs to be bought, it's not about millions of objects... Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U609	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U610	Well, let's see, yeah. It's nothing. I think that the Committee on Monetary Affairs must go into this draft very carefully and we must get to this knowledge in this Chamber of the Riigikogu that if we have made laws that allow control, and there are public authorities that have been appointed to do so and receive public money to carry out this control, then we must make sure that they do this work as necessary. If they have a shortage of financial resources, their capacity must be increased in the state budget and, therefore, perhaps the missing 220 million that are expected to be achieved by this draft is [possible to], but not so that people working in some areas simply do not manage best. I say that the reason may always be on the financial side, because there are simply no people left, not that they do not want to do this job. I think most people really want to do their job, and they love it. But it can't be that then we'll write the next law. I understand very clearly, looking at who supports this bill. This is supported by large companies. But interestingly, a very large builder has now started protesting. I don't know, I haven't met him why he's protesting now about this bill. But we will meet in the coming weeks before we send the draft from the Commission to second reading. I recommend that all members of the Riigikogu read this draft seriously and, in particular, I recommend that all members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs delve into this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U611	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U612	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, technological opportunities are evolving, and they must also be used to improve tax collection, increase safety at work, and they are apps or maps that allow workers to stay on the construction site and register the start and end of working hours. In the Committee on Finance, we discussed, and indeed, the solution that businesses and trade unions support and for which the tax administration sees a need, it is reasonable to adopt. On the one hand, we can take a step towards really legal work on construction sites, their working time being monitored and guaranteed a reasonable workload, and we are also taking a step towards safety at work. So we really need to deepen so that the solution is feasible and reasonable. It is in the interests of all of us that workers are legally employed and that working hours and workload still comply with reasonable occupational health requirements. There is no sector or area where we can turn a blind eye to this. Both in the interests of workers and, in fact, in order to reduce the revenue gap in the country, it makes sense to use modern technological opportunities. I hope that during the discussions, if necessary, we will improve the solution, but we will undoubtedly proceed with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-09_U613	I don't see any more calls. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 506. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 2.15 p.m. on 23 February. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, the story is, it's 21 and 55 minutes, and I'm out of business. If you don't have any more procedural questions from the view, then we can... [[A voice from the hall.]] Are there any procedures? No? Got it. Then the hearing is adjourned. Have a good night and I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
