ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U1	Good morning. It's a pleasure to see you here bright and squeaky. It is an even greater pleasure to start the 15th working week Thursday session of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now that there is, ladies and gentlemen, someone's wish to hand over drafts or enquiries, it is exactly the right time. Please! I don't see that wish. Then please, we'll do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U2	Currently, 51 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U3	So, we are going to discuss two items with you today. The first of these is the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision of the Riigikogu on "Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe" of 603. We have a first reading. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please ask Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U4	Good morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you draft 603, amendment of the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe." The Committee on Foreign Affairs presented this draft on 2 May this year. The draft provides for the appointment of Mr Indrek Saar as an alternate member of the delegation instead of Mr Raimond Kaljulaid. No amendments were tabled by the deadline set by the Riigikogu's Management Board on 6 May at 3 p.m. At its meeting on 9 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions on this draft by consensus: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday 19 May and to hold the final vote on the draft. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, Member of the Commission, is the rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U5	Okay. No questions asked. Thank you! It is now possible to speak in the negotiations. I don't see that wish either. I'm closing the negotiations. As you have heard, no amendments have been tabled and, in the case of this draft, we will also proceed to the final vote at first reading. All right, how do you feel? Can we vote? I think so, too, yeah. I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision on "Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe" submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, draft 603. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U6	With the result of 56 votes against and no abstentions, the decision has been taken. [[Let's hear it.]] Easy, easy! Gentlemen! Mr. Onion, calm down. I get it, I get it, but we're still trying to keep the peace.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U7	The second item is the amendment of Riigikogu's decision "Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation" by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today is such a great day, you will see that there is still a reason to clap, because now we are going to change the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. In order for you to understand how we have arrived here, I will give a brief overview of the birth of this bill. As I was saying, for a change, you'll hear a reasonable story about this remote control compared to last night. Okay. The Riigikogu formed the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation by decision of 30 May 2019 and the delegation was at that time the following composition: Kadri Simson was the head of the delegation, Ants Laaneots and Sven Sester were members, and Leo Kunnas and Sven Mikser were alternate members. By decision of 7 November 2019, Mr Andres Metsoja was appointed Head of Delegation instead of Mr Kadri Simson, Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski was appointed alternate member of the delegation instead of Mr Sven Sester. By decision of 23 March 2022, Marko Šorin was appointed Head of Delegation instead of Kerstin-Oudekki Loone and Jaak Juske was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 2 May this year. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided to support this proposal. This draft was submitted on 2 May. By the deadline set by the Riigikogu's Board of Directors, no amendments were tabled by 6 May, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions by consensus on this draft at its meeting on 9 May: to propose to the Riigikogu's Management Board to adopt draft 604 Riigikogu plenary session on Thursday, 19 May, this is on the agenda of today's sitting and to hold the final vote on the draft. Mr Valdo Randpere, Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the rapporteur's draft at first reading, which is me. No questions? Oh, it did.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U9	Yeah. Please, Mr. Onions!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U10	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Jürgen Ligi always gets upset when someone goes out and reads these protocols and gives a single overview, not just about content. You said you'd hear some sense, but now we've heard the protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U11	Thank you. Good Priit, first of all, you didn't just hear the protocol. Secondly, I watched when I started out, there was no Jürgen, I thought we'd take advantage of the moment that there was no cat, no mouse party. But it went wrong, Jürgen showed up. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But basically, I wanted to give you this little overview of the logical time series and the justification for how we've gotten here, and at the same time, I wanted to show you how much can happen in three years. You can't imagine it. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Jürgen Ligi is quite awake now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U12	Mr. Randpere, may I chair the hearing, or do you want to...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U13	I didn't say anything but that Jürgen Ligi woke up.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U14	I understand. To Mr Onion, of course, I would like to say as an interim remark that I did not hear the protocol and what was included in the protocol, I heard Valdo Randpere. But let it stay. Jürgen Ligi will fix everything anyway. So please, Jurgen!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U15	Thank you. I congratulate student Priit Sibula, he's got it right. I think that the rapporteur for the Commission should report a debate rather than a protocol. Luckily, I didn't really hear the protocol, but I didn't really hear the debate. Please report what was debated and argued about during the debate on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U16	Thank you. That's a good question. And I'm really glad that's what you're asking. The heated debate was indeed, but not at this committee meeting where we discussed who we were replacing, Jaak Jusket and Evgeny Ossinovski, but last time we sent Oudekki Loone to space. So, in itself, this parliamentary delegation has been relatively turbulence throughout the ages. But it was this last time that the committee meeting was really very quiet, there was nothing to talk about. That's why I gave you a little historical overview. I hope everyone remembers who was first chairman and who is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U17	Looks like the questions are exhausted now. Thank you! Okay. However, there is, of course, still room for opinion during the negotiations. Negotiations... [[They're talking about the hall.]] Take it later, make an appointment for one hour, and then you can... Okay, closing the negotiations. As you have heard, there are no amendments and we are going to have a final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I am voting on the amendment of Riigikogu's decision "Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation" submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs" draft No 604. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-19_U18	With the result of 57 votes against and no abstentions, the decision has been approved and adopted. [[Let's hear it.]] Relax, respectables! Easy! I understand everyone's wishes, but now that the hearing is over, you can clap and do whatever's in your heart outside this hall. Have a nice day. The sitting is adjourned.
