ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good afternoon! We will begin the Monday session of the 18th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Jack White!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over, on behalf of the EKRE Group, a draft amending the Aliens Act and the Law on Higher Education. But before I formally hand it over, I'm gonna make a little comment. Namely, I think that in the future about half a century, when Estonian history will still be written in Estonian, that means that if Estonian national culture and national state have survived and progressed, the 2008-2011 period will clearly be judged to be the worst in the history of Estonia that regained independence, because then a policy was carried out that made our people poor and unemployed and tens of thousands counted as well as commuters, then perhaps 100000 people had no choice but to go abroad to serve bread. That is why we have had some labour shortages in some sectors. But it would be wrong to say that the people of Estonia do not want to do any work. They do the same work, but abroad, where they pay more for it. They have gradually replaced them after the 2008 economic crisis, but especially in the last five years, foreign workers have come and this has cut our wages, hampering the return of our people and the economic innovations. Today, even before the economic crisis, there will be a replacement of its workforce by external labour. Thus, there may be a situation in which the worst period of independence in Estonia has been restored to its worst period, not from 2008 to 2011, but from the years beginning in 2021 or 2022. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I don't think any of us want that. In particular, I would like to address the Fatherland Party...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U3	Good waitress, your time! Your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U4	...who consider themselves a national party. You have to learn from the mistakes, not to repeat them in worse shape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U5	I don't see any more calls from my colleagues right now. I ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair from the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U6	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, a draft law on security. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior in the proceedings of the draft law. And secondly, the draft law on assessing the reliability of foreign investment. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Both drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U7	Thank you. There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Good colleagues, presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U8	80 members of the Riigikogu registered, no 21. Now we have to approve the agenda. There is nothing else to vote on here. But you have to do the call sign before you do it. And before that... I was wondering if there were any procedural changes in the chorus. No, it's not. A procedural question, Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U9	Thank you. It's not just an interest or a hobby after this procedural question, it's...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U10	There haven't been any before, please-please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U11	...still a matter of concern. We have the first item on the agenda, the same 619 follow-up to the second reading debate. However, as I have heard, the protests that were received by the Bureau have still not been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs today. Point one, my request is: why, if necessary, does the Bureau not order an analysis from the Legal Department itself? Or if, for some reason, the Bureau decided to send it back to the Committee on Social Affairs to discuss it, the Committee on Social Affairs has not found time within several days to discuss and resolve people's complaints and concerns. In fact, such reading should be interrupted for as long as it is legally clear how this draft should go any further.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U12	Thank you. I mean, yes, today this item is on the agenda, but today, if we approve this agenda, we have six more items, seven in total. And a free microphone. Now for protests. I remember that when I gave you the information here in advance, I hope that I am not wrong, that there must have been the protests of the Luck Hillak, which the Bureau discussed and jointly decided that we would really send it to the commission and ask that they also give us the information on how they have decided. It was a joint decision. After these protests came, and we will certainly discuss all the protests on our board when the board meets now. Last week there was a longer hearing. And I think we'll be able to watch the others in the next few days. But, yes, there was a protest at the time, one of our good co-workers, Luck Pillaku, and the joint decision of the board was to send it to the lead committee for resolution and to inform the board as well. I don't know that we would have had this information from you right now. Now, the procedural question, Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U13	That is the question that concerns the free microphone. If we now approve the agenda and if we are going to discuss the amendment of the law on family benefits, how will we deal with the free microphone? For example, at the end of the day, will there be an appointment for a free microphone so that the ambassadors can talk about their concerns?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U14	Thank you. I remember that we have had a debate here before, too, about the fact that if the other drafts shift to the next day, how is the free microphone a question that falls between the two chairs, right, that it does not go up? And there have been thoughts to improve the Home and Working Procedures Act so that the free microphone can go on. While I'm calculating nine hours, it's until the end of this day when we're out of session, right, at 12:00 in the morning. If they don't take breaks here, it should be nice to get there. But, yeah, the next free microphone, regular, if we don't make it, it should be in September, so it's gonna be... But then there will be longer preparation. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U15	Thank you, good Chairman! Last Wednesday, when we started working on this family benefit law, the next one was supposed to be Keit Pentus-Rosimannus's report. I repeatedly asked different managers if a person was aware of it. Now I'm looking at this week's schedule and, unnoticed, right after the second reading of the Family Benefits Act, he's slipped to the fifth. Sometimes the law of state fees and other laws have come. In the case of arguments, was Keit himself not ready or just these other readings are more acute?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U16	Thank you. I remember you asked me how many times. I said, I don't have any information to keep the Minister of Finance from coming. Unfortunately, we didn't have time to process it last time. Today he is well on the agenda, as we confirm it, I would like to stress the fifth item on the agenda. And I guess today's agenda, when we talk about Monday's agenda, June 13th, you have to be structured as follows: first of all, what was left in the middle of it, when we finish it nicely, the other readings will come forward. And then this point you're asking about, I think it's 626 SE, this is the first reading, and that's the first reading, the fifth item on the agenda. So no one here, I don't know, the Committee on Social Affairs or the Committee on Monetary Affairs in any way has skipped, this principle has just been that as a rule it has been: the third, the others and the first. Mart Helme, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Since we have the interpretation of laws by the Reform Party under the so-called'managed democracy' conditions, including the interpretation of our law on home and working procedures, is moving to the sole discretion anyway, I propose a response to Mr Padar's proposal or to the question of a free microphone. If the tongue is itchy, it can be done during ten-minute breaks expected to be taken by the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U18	Thank you. This is an interesting proposal, but it is not an official part of the Riigikogu's speech chair, if there is a break. At the same time, to convene a meeting on the premises of the Riigikogu on its own initiative, it is quite conceivable, and members of the Riigikogu can always do so in order to call their meeting together and talk about their concerns and joys. Valdo Randpere, please, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U19	Thank you. I have a procedural question on which we have actually discussed a question like this on several occasions, and we have reached an agreement that this should not be the case that, for the same week, we are planning a second and third reading of the drafts. On the current agenda that we have before us, there are three such drafts that I can find, perhaps even more. But it's the same thing as 619, 498 and 600, all of which have second and third reading scheduled for this week. Have we gone aside now, like this good practice or arrangement, and on purpose, we're putting more and more of them in one week, or is it just a coincidence? Or what's the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U20	Thank you. Indeed, it has been a practice that, if you can, there is one reading a week for one draft. We also have practice where there have been two readings on one bill. I think why there are these this week, you've counted it, based on your information, several second and third readings, I think it's just because it's a regular session week, and then the next regular session is in September. I believe that this is the reason that the commission has asked for them to be processed. I think that's the reason. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U21	Thank you, good Chairman! I also remained with Ivari Padari and Mart Helme to accept this approach to the problem, and indeed such an engagement mechanism as a free microphone could be, and I would suggest that perhaps we could organise a small karaoke system there with these ten-minute breaks. Not only does it need to be sung, it can also be written in its own text, and it can be presented in such a way that there are exercises for independent living, but why not, that during the night hours you can try to read some well - known ways, for example, on drafts of law, which would also be extremely agile. Is our technical support able to order this karaoke service?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U22	Thank you. I have no information that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has this karaoke opportunity. I don't know if we have a chance. To order it, theoretically, it's possible, while people are at the diner with their thoughts, they want to eat peacefully. There's a concert like this, I don't think it's appropriate. So, yeah. But the piano there really is that maybe if someone wants, if they don't bother anyone, to play some methodical tracks there. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U23	Good manager! I have such a procedural question that we have a long menu here, but as manager, you have information on whether we are going beyond the first question this week. And if we don't make it, where does the rest of the valuable stuff go, including a free microphone?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U24	Thank you. There are not many seven points in itself, and Mondays show that we can process it nicely, including a free microphone. I don't have any information on how fast we're going. I don't have that information today, I don't have that feeling either. What happens if we don't have time to process them today? Then, as we know, tomorrow we have a hearing, three hours, and we can extend one hour. There's gonna be a whole night on Wednesday, so we should be able to discuss these issues nicely. If it doesn't, it'll be on Thursday from ten to one, and there'll be a chance to extend it. And then, according to the Home and Working Procedures Act, there will be an opportunity for extraordinary sittings until September, or the beginning of the autumn session, this is the eighth session, and then there will be additional sessions, as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure. We don't have any other options. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U25	Thank you, Mr President. I would not like to agree well with what you said about the free microphone that it would fall in between the two chairs somewhere. This is not a matter of marginal significance at all, because apart from the drafts that we are dealing with in this Chamber, there are other crucial things that the ambassadors must present to their voters. On any subject, then, does electricity, why not go to the so-called fixed price here and exit the stock market and increase in food prices and increase in fuel excise duties? This is the work of a member of the Riigikogu, and if we have it on the agenda according to the rules of work and procedure, we still have to deal with these matters because we cannot simply say that it does not fit, the board must find some way out of this situation to ensure that there is also a free microphone. It is not merely embellishing itself here, but it is talking about the problems of society, which is, in fact, the task of the ambassadors directly and also inviting members of the government to resolve these issues constructively and immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U26	Thank you. I will begin this procedural question with greetings to Helir-Valdor Seeder. I think I am not mistaken if he raised the same question at one point in the round of procedural questions, that this free microphone, I hope, I did not make a mistake and I remember correctly, but the truth is that our law on home and working procedures does not give this opportunity. If you say the board has to make an effort, I agree, we all have to make an effort. And basically, seven items on the agenda aren't so long that we don't get to a free microphone. What is still our chance to supplement our Home and Working Procedures Act, but it will take time, which we will not be ready for tonight. Paul Woodland, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U27	Thank you, good manager. I also come to this procedural economic principle, which has already been said today. What, then, is our Rules of Procedure law directly prohibiting us from using a norm, or is it simply not talking about the possibility of using these breaks, ten minutes, to leave the microphone open and talk about our concerns? Because, ultimately, it would be a huge saving of time and, in fact, very useful for both voters and the state, when those who wish to go for ten minutes are discussing something somewhere, but those who wish to talk, they come to the remote and talk, and those who want to listen. That would be a huge time saving and economics would be insane, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U28	Thank you, Mr. Woodland! I say to you that, after all, these holidays are not taken for granted, they are still taken in order to consult themselves, with their colleagues, with the group. Now, if someone here is supposed to perform theoretically, where you get the advice, you want to listen to what a person is saying, you want to consult, well, two jobs are very difficult to do. So this is basically what I think it is, and the hearing has also stopped at that point, when the intermission has been taken to consult. But as I said, Tarmo Kruusimäe was probably the one who asked, in fact, that advice could be consulted. You invite people to your place and you explain your principles, it's an opportunity. Now, Mr. Grünthal, I want to answer again. That free microphone, yeah, I found it too. Thanks to your co-worker. Look, this § 157 is very resolute at home and at work, it says: "The speeches of the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and the committees of the Riigikogu will be heard by a free microphone on Monday of every working week of the Riigikogu. "That's what "Monday" puts these boundaries in front of us. Mart Võrguship, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I still have a problem with this agenda and the family benefits law. As Mr Randpere has already said, the second and third readings have been put on the same week. At the same time, we know that there have been a number of protests on this procedure in the committee, including I have protested both personally and on behalf of the group, because the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee still violated a number of procedural rules at the committee meeting, including by not giving Members of the Reform Party the opportunity to present their amendments. There has been repeated interest in this House in the desire or desire to hear their content, and the Rules of Procedure also clearly state that there must be an opportunity to defend it. Maybe the violations are pretty serious. The Committee on Social Affairs did not discuss them today; they still need to be discussed in the Bureau. I have several questions. What is your plan, when will the board then discuss them, because if we have a third reading this week, and if we get to this bill nicely at this rate, as the agenda envisages, how will a member of the Riigikogu have to act in the final vote, if there is a risk and assessment that procedural rules have been violated and would like to support it, but as if it could not be supported? And the third question is that, although the Bureau sees that these protests cannot be discussed in the Bureau this week, because the Committee on Social Affairs has not shaped its position as to whether the Bureau considers it appropriate to remove this third reading from the agenda already. I would like answers to these three questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U30	Thank you, esteemed Mart Võrguship! I generally think that by listening to this whole procedural question of yours, I think that everything will soon be much better. It's such a general answer to you. But now that we are talking specifically about the issues you have put forward, the lead committee has put forward this proposal. The Riigikogu Board has discussed the agenda last Thursday, it is suitable for everyone, there have been no problems. Now, as I said, the protest of a fellow official, Mr Pillaku, was on the board for discussion. I'm asking for silence in the hall. There's too much noise in the hall. Thank you. I beg you, really, who has conversations, we can do it outside the hall, but in the hall, we respect the questioner and those who want to listen. Now, is the board meeting? Yeah, it's meeting. The next meeting of the board is tomorrow, Tuesday, 1:30. But I think that this direction, which was also in favour of the Luck Hill, is actually the task of the commission to resolve these issues and, of course, we are asking to inform the Riigikogu's management of this matter. Whether it is possible for the Riigikogu to take this third reading out of here by force today, I do not know that we have this opportunity. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, of course, for reminding me that you said that the free microphone was on Monday, and it just got clearer. But the question is that the members of the Riigikogu obviously have a desire to perform in a free microphone, and that is why I would make such a suggestion, Mr Jüri Ratas, that you give some time to register a free microphone, and once this is done, it is clear that many people want to appear in a free microphone. And let's say that this Monday agenda, let's say, for the billing process, would last so long that the performers who wanted to be in a free microphone would be able to tell their concerns there. I think that would be a very sensible suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U32	Thank you. Yes, I support this proposal and I will act as follows: when the seventh item is dealt with, I say the sentence that, after the hammer hit, please register for a free microphone, then there is a hammer hit and then you can register. I'm sure that's what I do in that sense. A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U33	Good manager! My colleague on the Net Carrier's concern that they do not want to listen to their excellent proposals, to their suggestions for improvement, but I ask why it is possible that my colleague on the Net Carrier and my colleagues did not use it before taking a break... [[The manager's ringing the bell. They're protesting in the hall.]] It's possible with a few sentences, it's said earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U34	Thank you. Yeah, I think what you asked for, we really have had this set of rules here in my opinion, and it has also been a practice that when this amendment is asked to vote on it, sometimes there is also a request to take a break, not always, it has not, as a rule, been accompanied by a very strong rule and as a practice, that it will be justified by what is the substance of this proposal. And I think everyone can read it. We have this table, a short table, anyone who wants to see what its contents are. Mart Networker, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U35	I'm still going to specify my last question. I'm really worried about solving these protests. I understand that the Bureau has only sent one protest to the Social Affairs Committee. The Committee on Social Affairs did not discuss it today and does not intend to discuss it this week according to the work programme. The other protests board, according to my understanding, have not been sent by the Social Affairs Committee at the moment to say if I am wrong. However, please explain how we will be able to adopt this third reading of the Family Benefits Act, that is, this week when we know that we have a series of protests, we have strong doubts that the Commission and the Chairman of the Commission have broken our Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure. How can we discuss this this week? And what is your vision, when should the Commission resolve these protests, if not at the very last moment before the third reading, later?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U36	Thank you. As far as I know, I have information that these other protests have actually been passed on to the commission. If you're asking me when we should discuss this, I think it's right to do it before the third reading. We have the third reading nicely on Wednesday in this project. I don't know if this agenda is going to work at all. And the board, as I said, will do it tomorrow at the latest. Tomorrow. But yes, they have all been forwarded to the Commission in my opinion. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U37	Thank you, good Chairman! This concern, if the ambassadors cannot present their own amendments and we know that we already have a joint media management today, that whoever posts something is already pure gold. Would it not be possible for us to open the draft amendments to such a heading on the Riigikogu page, for example, in the joint media. I would also like to know where, for example, the amount of EUR 64 for the first child and EUR 71 for the second child will come from. What kind of mathematical formula or, let's say, social studies will result in such a number being, then this problem would have been solved. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U38	Thank you. I'll be honest with you, I don't think that's possible in this window of time. Knowing that all these IT systems, they take time to do them, they need to invest there, they need to be implemented. I'm telling you the truth, I don't think that's possible, but it's really my own personal sense. Maybe there are some who can do it so quickly, but it could only be a back-up, and can't rely on it, there's no law force like that. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U39	Thank you, President-in-Office. I hear here all the time that there is a great concern that the ambassadors could not present their amendments. But perhaps the President-in-Office would then at least propose to these concerned ambassadors that, if there were to be a time for voting on these amendments, they at least be in the Chamber so that they could at least introduce themselves? When we looked at this last night's session, I don't know, I didn't see that concern from the authors of these amendments, everyone was sleeping at home. They received messages with a reminder that you might come and at least vote in favour of your very important and important amendments. Those who didn't exist were ambassadors. Why don't they at least be in the Chamber during these votes, each at the time of their own amendment, and then at least introduce themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U40	Thank you. Well, we know that this question of everyone being in the Chamber, we are free in our mandate, and that is how members of the Riigikogu should behave. That's what I'm gonna say. But yes, this introduction to the hall, it's been tried. And actually, it's just gotten into a lot of trouble in this Chamber, so why is it dragged down, who's counting a minute down on the content of this amendment, who's counting 10 seconds who doesn't count at all? It has been the custom and rule that we do not introduce an amendment in this Chamber before we are put to the vote. Tarmo Tamm, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U41	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. We're in the middle of reading Bill 619 SE. I ask you this: is there a theoretical possibility that the government can come to the Riigikogu with a few points before the Riigikogu with its proposal before this point is fully processed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U42	Yeah, thanks! This point still needs to be handled nicely when we are talking about regular sittings. And that's what we have enough time for this week to do today and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday. Paul Puustusmaa, please ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U43	Good manager! In the previous response, you told me that if there was a break, the hearing would have stopped. So that's why it can't be used for a free microphone for ten minutes. But on the other hand, Helle-Moonika has a very good suggestion that, if this ten minutes, when the sitting has stopped, those who are interested in introducing their own amendment, they could be in this Chamber, and those who are interested in listening to this proposal, they could also be in this Chamber and listen to this proposal for ten minutes. This is a completely innovative approach and actually makes it rational to carry out its procedures. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U44	Thank you. No, I, I don't think there's any prohibition here. Once a break is taken, there may be proposals in this Chamber, in this Chamber you can talk to your colleagues, introduce them. So this initiative can be taken by any member of the Riigikogu, there is no prohibition here. You walk and you tell people about your amendment. No one's gonna drive you or us out of this hall. So maybe this isn't a problem during the break in this hall. We were talking about no chair coming in here. Now, the procedural question, René Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm going from here to Tarmo Tamme, to expand it a little bit. You've been Prime Minister for a long time, too. Is there any way you can tell us about this mindset that the Prime Minister has asked his party associates to torpedo a bill here in the Riigikogu and put the work to a halt, while he sends two drafts on top of the government here, just like today. Do you have any idea what the cause of this schizophrenic behavior might be and how you'd behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U46	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. This is really the first one today for a long time, I guess, which hasn't been. That is a personal opinion and it is very difficult to say here. So, we've been through all these procedural questions. Thank you and we are now in the process of preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, please pay attention. Thank you. I am voting on the approval of the 18th working week agenda of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U47	With the result of 49 votes against 30 and 1 abstention, the agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U48	Dear colleagues, we happened to have this kind of thing at the last session, it was on Thursday that we failed to read the second reading of Bill 619 SE amending the Family Benefits Act, which was initiated by 54 members of the Riigikogu. We are still at the stage of the revision of the amendments. And here it is, so we have to... Since 68 amendments were examined beautifully, now we are at the 69th amendment, we are talking about draft 619 SE. Amendment 69 was tabled by Signe Kivi and Vilja Toomast; the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Tõnis Mölder, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U49	Thank you, good manager. We know, in fact, that there were a lot of initiators here. You did not read all these names in advance, but we know that between the first reading and the second reading, six members of the Social Democratic Party Group, Lauri Läänemets, Helmen Kütt, Eduard Odines, Riina Sikkut, Heljo Pikhof and Jaak Juske were the six people who decided to withdraw their signature from this draft and not support Estonian children and families. Do you have this knowledge of whether they have improved their minds in any way, have they ever wanted to rejoin this bill, or, for example, has the list of those who have withdrawn their signature from this bill expanded in some way?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U50	Thank you. I don't have the information that someone has given back their signature or taken back, I don't have the information. But it's a good thing to be clear about this, yes, we are currently at the point of Mess of the Members of the Ri Parliament Jaanus Karil, Jüri Ratas, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, Peeter Rahnel, Mikhaiil Stalnukchin, Oudekk Loone, Andrei Korobeinik, Natalalia Malleus, Siret Kot Kotka, Igor Kravšenko, Aadu Must, Anastassia Kovavenko-Kõkvarti, Tõnis Möldri, Marek Jür Oti, Marek Jürli Ot, Marek Jüro Ot, Kaido Häögenson, Kaido Häeselson, Helm, Tarmo Tamme, Mart Helme, Sven Me Me Me Me Messsssssss, Messssssss, Messs, Messss, Mes Mes Mes at the Messssssssss at the Mes at the Mess at the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the Parliament, which are at the members of the Parliament, which are at the members of the members of the members of the Parliament, which are at the members of the Parliament, which are at the members of the Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Parliament, Jem, Jem, Jem, Jem, Jem, Jem, Jem, Jem at the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Parliament, Jis, Jis, Jus, Jus, Jus, Jus, Jus, Jus, Jem Jürgen Ligi, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U51	Thank you. However, I would expect the President of the Riigikogu to take Mr Möldri's concerns seriously. I have information that some members of the Riigikogu are so against children that they left the Riigikogu at all to protest against their draft. Am I right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U52	Thank you. I have no information that any of the initiators have left the Riigikogu because of this bill. The reasons have been other, I think... I understand who you are referring to, the reasons have been that the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic released seven ministers, some of them returned to the Riigikogu, and then the alternates went out of here, so that has been the reason. George Jaanson, please! A procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U53	Thank you. Unlike my good colleague Jürgen Ligi, I think you should have... At least according to my understanding, you probably should have left Möldr's procedural question "under review." I have a question for you, if you happen to have time. Yeah. You just told Rene Koka that this was the first substantive question that was put to the procedure here. And I noticed when I was right to note that the procedural question of my esteemed colleague, Tõnis Möldri, was actually off the subject or was not procedural. How do you divide them into procedural and non-procedural?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U54	Thank you. The manager will do so according to his knowledge and experience. Now on to that... Yeah, I didn't answer specifically who didn't take back their signature from there. Last time Mr Odinets had a serious debate on this matter. This means that the draft is either withdrawn or the draft is withdrawn and the draft is withdrawn. And indeed, some of these initiators have withdrawn from this bill, that is true. I think that Tõnis Möldri's personalities, who have been at the initiative of this draft, are right about the retreat, they have indeed withdrawn from this bill at the moment. Okay. Peter Ernits, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U55	Good manager! I have always taken a respectful view of my colleague, Mrs Ligi, of our accessories and of our memory. But right now, on his question, when he asked if this bill had left for protest, does that mean that Mr Ligil had some sense in some way faded, or was that a malicious attitude towards members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U56	Thank you. I'm not gonna take that as a procedural question. And I'm sorry, there were so many names. I'm really sorry if I was wrong somewhere, and it's really bad that I did that, I'm sorry with the ending of my last name. For example, I know, I repeat, I said "starter Sven Sester," but I should have said "sven Sester." So I'm gonna fix that mistake, too. A procedural question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U57	Thank you. That's my question. Indeed, in the meantime, at least one of the initiators of this draft has left the Riigikogu, it is Kerstin-Oudekki Loone or, in fact, it would be, if we talked about names and how to pronounce them, then Kerstin should actually be Swedish-style "Charstin" Oudekki Loone. Learn, though a little late maybe. But his signature is there at the initiation of this bill. The question is: what is the legal status of his will today? He himself has left the Riigikogu. Not a member of the Riigikogu can initiate drafts in the form that we have here. And the question is: will his signature be deemed to be withdrawn, void, or should the whole draft suddenly fall out of the procedure, because one of the initiators of the draft is in fact not legally competent to initiate the draft at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U58	Thank you. I understand your question. Well, there have been other examples, haven't there, if there's been an instigator... I believe that I am not mistaken, for example, inquiring that he is no longer working in the Riigikogu at this point. If there are more than half of them, yes, we wouldn't continue to process it. But is the initiator, this legal status remains, today he is not a member of the Riigikogu. So that doesn't change the procedure or procedure for processing this bill. So, we got a nice look at these procedural questions. I would put this matter to the vote if anyone so wished. Erkki Keldo, if you want, we'll... Please, Erkki Keldo! You have your word.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U59	Thank you. There were a bunch of procedural questions in the meantime, but if I am not mistaken, we remained in exactly the situation where I ask for this amendment to be voted on behalf of the Reform Party Group, but before that, I ask for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U60	Got it. Break ten minutes! V a h e a eg
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U61	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Reform Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 69th amendment tabled by Signe Kivi and Vilja Toomast. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U62	With the result of 22, against 43, the proposal was not supported. Good fellows! Once again, we have gone a little bit closer to the free microphone we asked for before. Amendment 70 has been tabled by Riigikogu member Signe Kivi; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Erki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U63	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on by the Reform Party Group, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U64	Okay, that's an interesting approach. Ten minutes break. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U65	The recess requested by the Reform Party has ended. We are on to Amendment 70, but there is a procedural question before that. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U66	Good manager! I have a great deal of concern about the neighbor Signe Stone. In the previous proposal, he promised EUR 71 for the first child, but now suddenly only EUR 66. The [grant] for the second and third children has remained the same. What does that mean? Has he gotten any gentler or weaker?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U67	The proposals are autonomous, point one. The proposals are also different. Amendment 69 is from Signe Kivilt and Vilja Toomast, no 70 is only from Signe Kivilt. I don't know. Normally, [if] there are several people, then there is a compromise. Alone tea... I can't tell you that. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U68	Thank you. My question relates to Peter Ernits' question. Suppose we all now support these thousands of proposals from the Reform Party. There are absolutely conflicting things in there. So what happens to this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U69	Yeah, if you really approach that theoretically, I'm telling you honestly, maybe you should use an artificial intelligence here to figure out a weighted average, or I can't say it right now. If everyone supported that yes. I can't say the answer to that right now. But Erkki Keldo, you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U70	Yeah, thanks! It's just very strange and hypocritical to hear here, I don't understand whether my colleagues in the EKRE Group are such an irony. The moment at which the content of the amendments had to be discussed, i.e. the Committee on Social Affairs, their representatives there were not too interested, much less willing to hold these discussions, as protests have been put forward here many times. You don't understand what's being done in the drama circle or just suggesting ironization. Is this appropriate for the Riigikogu Hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U71	Thank you. I think that any irony or derogatory, no, I don't think this is the place where it has to be done. As I said, all proposals are autonomous and these proposals are also different, not in terms of content, but also in terms of performers. That was my answer. Kalle Grünthal, now you have the fourth procedural question. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U72	Thank you. Have you ever had a limit on questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U73	The answer to no procedural questions questions I cannot in any way limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U74	Got it. Thank you. Then I'll use your expression, let's move forward at an ever-increasing rate with procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U75	Please, mike to Mr. Grünthal, give him back the microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U76	Thank you. The question is that you used the expression that we are using some kind of artificial intelligence here to calculate or find its optimal support, but, according to my knowledge, the Riigikogu Labour and Rules of Procedure Act does not offer us such an opportunity. Rather, it is here to use the thinking of the ambassadors of the Reform Party here, well I am not going to repeat it, because in fact there is an absurd example of what the Reform Party is doing here right now. And if, let's say, it is normal to process such a law, let's say, in the current crisis, where we already have fuel prices above two euros, it is, I don't know, it is a violation of the function of the state, which is actually a criminal offence already within the meaning of the Constitution. Thank you. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U77	Thank you. I don't think there's any such crime here, and I was also creative in that answer. Of course, we must vote through all these amendments, look at what remains on the sieve, which does not remain on the sieve. Finally, there is the possibility, if it is indeed a very difficult situation, that we have the Home and Working Procedures Act which will also give us the opportunity to interrupt the second reading. We can give a new deadline for amendments, all options are available. In addition, the good news is that coalition negotiations have begun. I think the clarity's coming up faster than we think. Procedural question, Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U78	Thank you very much. Now, unfortunately, I must leave the silence often desired by this fellow Members to one another, so that, yes, it is better not to speak out, which I would like to do in relation to another fellow Member. But since my name sounded...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U79	Sorry, Signe Kivi, I'm so sorry! You have the right to speak in the context of a procedural question. If you think it's a'responsibility', it's to be negotiated within the framework of the negotiations. Some members of the Riigikogu sometimes use this procedural question a little more creatively, but there is no reception in this round.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U80	As a creative person, I use creatively...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U81	A procedural question, yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U82	... and I invite those who wish to discuss my amendments to the cafeteria, and I will explain it to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U83	Thank you very much. It was really procedural, I'm telling you the truth. You see, there came a call and you can come and discuss the matter. The procedure, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U84	Thank you, good Chairman! Here our work and rules of procedure do not allow, let us say, as acilely as there are competing proposals that pass through the big hall, and you gladly announced that perhaps we might have an artificial intelligence to help, but I would also like to draw the attention of the ambassadors that this is an extremely slippery path, because already perhaps the media is starting to calculate some average. No, this is perhaps not the result and I would like to say to Mr Grünthal that we do not really need to vote on these procedural... or these amendments because, in any way or otherwise, they would take the middle number down, because the will of the initiators is still that the first child will have 100 euros, the second one 100 euros. No matter what the smaller number is, the artificial intelligence would make it smaller. I ask the Chairman that if we are not sure yet that we will use artificial intelligence to pass such a competitive vote, is it wise to talk about perhaps giving the press such legitimate expectations, or we say that this is our own jargon here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U85	Thank you. Since I used it, I was too flyy. I take back that thought and answer, so we still have to rely not on this AI, or artificial intelligence, but on the provisions of our Home and Working Procedures Act. A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U86	Good manager! I read these amendments here, and I have the question: is the next proposal, with Signe Kivi and Mart Võrguship, and it offers EUR 80 to support the first child, and since there is Mart Võrguship, has the chairman of the group influenced Signe Kivi by his influence, that his offers are EUR 66 and EUR 71 for the first child, but now 80 is coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U87	Thank you. I can answer the procedural question that this amendment is the following, not the following. That's the 72nd you handled. Next up is 71st, this procedural clarification. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U88	Thank you, President-in-Office. You said that you were taking back your flying thought or your flying thought, but I actually had this idea when we were talking about the artificial intelligence, that, looking at how quickly the Reform Party ambassadors really used that time, they made absurdly many amendments, absurdly, then, as the President, you do not have any information that they have already gone a little bit like the work and the Rules of Procedure, and they already have their own robot for every ambassador, their artificial intelligence for every ambassador.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U89	Thank you. No, I don't have the data. I do have the data that these amendments, at least in a very large majority, cannot, 100% of them have been received on paper. So it meant that they had to be transferred to the computer system manually and it was quite a job. Thank you to your colleagues in the Commission who did this. Sincerely, now. Now a procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U90	Thank you! I will go from here to the question of my esteemed colleague, Helle-Moonika Helme. The thing is, where the smoke, there's fire. Since you were talking about this artificial intelligence, is there somewhere that every ambassador is going to have his own artificial intelligence who's going to calculate this average correct sum? I'd like to know the procedure now. Has there already been some kind of financial allocation in the budget for artificial intelligence, such as EUR 250 million, so that the ambassadors can also present concretely drafts with a specific number, but not with 50 to 200?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U91	Thank you. No, I do not have this information on this budgetary aspect and have not yet been transferred to this budget. Tavi Aas, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U92	Thank you. Am I missing something? I have a feeling we've reached a free microphone. Am I right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U93	No, we moved a little bit closer to the free microphone with the last amendment, but we are on our way. There are still some amendments, in the order of 1121, I would suggest. And that's when we should be. Wins 1122, depends on how you count it. But yeah, we're headed that way, we haven't gotten there yet. So, my fellow Members, I shall put to the vote the 70th amendment tabled by Signe Kivi, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Erkki Keldo's procedural question. What happened now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U94	Thank you. Seriously, since in the meantime the debate was obviously too long after the call, would you let us invite a little longer so that people could reach their.... Look, people are still running here. So they can get back to the hall for a second in their offices or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U95	No, I won't, there's an answer to question one. Well, running isn't the worst part, as long as it doesn't fall and it doesn't trip. Watch out, watch out! We don't need to fall on our noses. That won't be necessary. But I won't, because I've already done it. I put on a bell, put on a bell. And now we are going to the vote. Amendment 70, tabled by Ms Kivi... And Kalle Grünthal, procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U96	Dear George Ratas! The point is that the adoption of this bill requires 51 votes in favour, right, or let's say, to vote down, whether or not, let's say, these amendments, one way or the other. The question is, do we have so many ambassadors in the hall now? Does this thing even turn out to be pointless right now? We're running back and forth here, but if there's not so much in the hall, then you can't even vote at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U97	Thank you. Ama will be honest... I am looking to the members of the commission now, but I do not think I am wrong when I say that it is still a majority in favour. At the moment, there is a regular hearing, and what you mean is that we should have a majority of membership, or 51 in this Chamber, it is not a regular one, it can be held on its own in theory. So let's try it again. Let's try it again. Good fellows! Mart Helme, procedural question. I didn't mean to try the procedural question again. I wanted to go to the vote. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U98	Mr President of the Riigikogu, good chairman of the sitting. While wild deforestation is taking place in the Amazon, the Reform Party, which stands for the green turn, is engaged in obstructing the work of the Riigikogu. I'm gonna ask them to stop it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U99	Thank you. Okay. And now I'm going to make it clear that we're going to try to get back to the vote. Good fellows, I'm asking for your help in this. I shall put to the vote the 70th amendment tabled by Signe Kivi, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U100	With the result of 19 votes to 42, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Dear colleagues, thank you for your cooperation that we have been able to move on from here. Amendment 71 is tabled by Signe Kivi; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U101	Thank you. Since so much has been said about the proposal, I would ask for a break of five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U102	Thank you. But you still want the vote or you don't want it? And the vote, got it. We have a first offer, good colleagues, to vote on this amendment and a five-minute break. We look forward to the following proposal. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U103	Thank you. A very good proposal from my colleague, Jaanus Kariladi. The Reform Party Group would also like to vote on this amendment, but we would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U104	Thank you. Now there's a little coalition here about taking a break. This recess is coming, but the Reform Party is back on track, so ten minutes of recess. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U105	Good fellows! The recess requested by the Reform Party has ended. We are at the 71st amendment tabled by Mr Kivi. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Dear colleagues, please take a stand and vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U106	With the result of 17, against 44, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 72, let's move forward at a nice pace, tabled by Signe and Mart Võrguship, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Kert Kingo, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Since we have so much time, it is possible very thoroughly with this yellow book, which we have here regulates working procedures, and I have examined and examined thoroughly, I have read § 57, which is under chapter 10, which explains the idea of obstruction and what methods can be used. And on the basis of all this, I have the impression that we do not comply with the law, because the law states that only the opposition party can carry out the obstruction. There's no law that such moves are allowed by coalition parties, I can tell you a page too, page 213.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U108	That's quite a nut, to be honest. But to say yes, the way things are right now, it's complicated. But this is an executive edition, the point of the law is that if the group wants and we have five political groups here, it can take 10 minutes. Perhaps they really want to discuss, and I do not know, there may be serious discussions about this 72nd amendment. Kalle Grünthal, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Now you said one very interesting sentence that what it says in the yellow book is that it does, but the point of the law is another. Does it turn out, then, that this yellow book is misprinted and put in the covers when you say that the meaning of the law is different?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U110	Thank you. No, I'm not saying the yellow book is wrong. He's a good helper, he's even a very good helper for us. But on this basis, one or the other party that belongs to the government, or coalition or opposition, cannot take a ten-minute break, well, I do not think you can really say that on that point. According to the law, everyone who has been granted this opportunity can take a break. Kert Kingo, procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U111	Thank you again! I would point out, however, that if there is a commentary, the point of commenting is that a provision of the law will be opened and explained nicely. This same chapter of § 10 57 explanation of the obstruction here simply states that the obstruction, or deliberate obstacle to work, is one of the legal forms of political struggle in Parliament. Here the rules of procedure can be used and the reference is only to opposition parties. While there is already an executive edition, all laws usually contain comments on all possible versions and all kinds of cases, but there is no mention here that the coalition party would be able to obstruct itself. It still seems to me that we are not acting in accordance with the law here at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U112	Thank you. Well, if you take this yellow book as a basis now, and the place you are talking about, indeed, the word was introduced in connection with the fact that when the opposition of Parliament tried, you are talking about this place, in 92, to prevent the adoption of a draft law in the Riigikogu. Greetings to Arvo Junt, then member of the Riigikogu! At that time he was chairman of the central group, you see, procedural ways to spend the session time. Now, if you look at this section of the law, the section of the law really gives you the possibility that all political groups can take ten minutes of break before the vote if they wish. Well, obstruction, we have amendments here. It's about making things better. You see, over 1990, the amendment that is going for the better. Erkki Keldo, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U113	Thank you. I'm helping a dear colleague. The word "opposition" is indeed a foreign word, but if you take out the dictionary of the true language, the opposition means nothing more than a frontside front for me, or for example, opposers. Indeed, in this case, the Reform Party Group is opposed to this draft, which has been dealt with in this way. It's all actually perfectly normal and perfectly logical. The 'opposition' is indeed a complicated word, perhaps, but it does not only mean government level, but generally opposers, and maybe it doesn't mean two ways of understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U114	Thank you. I understand that Erkli Keldo's explanation in this draft text is that opposition or opposition. In this context, what does that mean? Meaning that we are currently at bill 619, which is the draft law amending the law on family benefits, and there are oppositions here. Well, to which I have always oppressed, our Rule of Law and Rules of Procedure Act is § 83, which talks about this voting procedure. And paragraph 2 states that before voting, the chairman or vice-chairman of a permanent committee or political group may request a break of up to 10 minutes. So, yeah, you see, that's where we are. And I think, however, that what I have just read out gives this opportunity to all political groups, for example. Mart Helme, please! A procedural question. A microphone for Mart Helme, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U115	I'd say it's like some sort of village elders meeting here right now, looking for reasons why we can't do what we really can't do. My proposal is to interrupt the sitting and to summarise the board, if necessary, the representatives of the Council of Elders, the political groups represented in the Riigikogu and to clarify this issue, because, in essence, we are not dealing with opposition obstruction and the claim that everyone can take breaks does not contradict the fact that this is an obstructive break. It's a jock scheme, anyone can take a break before the vote, maybe, but if you do it 1179 times in a row, it's an obstruction, it's not just taking a break. So these reasons have been sought, they are in fact legally incompetent. And once again, the Reform Party will prove to us that they have everything they can do, that they can bend all laws. And unfortunately, I have to admit that it is extremely sad that the President of the Riigikogu is playing along with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U116	Thank you, good Mart! Now where did you leave the 12 amendments? You only said 1179, but here's 1191, so basically you can take everyone before 10 minutes of break. But yes, I am sticking to my position at the moment, if it really should happen today, that we do not reach the following points and the free microphone, but I think that this proposal, which you have made, to really discuss this situation in the body of elders, is a very, very legitimate proposal that maybe at some point we should ask the Assembly of Elders to come together and discuss how we can get on with this dead end, but at the same time we are moving a little forward at all times. Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U117	Thank you. I would still continue with §57 (4); it is not written here anywhere that, well, just that an obstruction can also be done when simply opting for some kind of bill. It is very clear here that the opposition of the Parliament, the 'opposition of Parliament' and the 'opposition party', are very clear and very unambiguous terms, very clear and unambiguous terms. I still think that if you could take a break as manager, you might go to the board and discuss this situation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U118	Thank you. I will be honest with you that I cannot find Article 57 (4) of our Home and Working Procedures Act. But help me, please! Help me if that's my problem right now! Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U119	Thank you, Mr President. When they call out for help, I always come to help. Look, the question right now is that you think there's no problem here. But there are smart books, such as the Constitution, that can be interpreted in every way, but there is even thicker, repeating thicker books, constitutional comments, which give a fundamental explanation of the application of this law and in what sense it expands. It is precisely the same situation in the Penal Code, where the objective and subjective aspects of the crime, the characteristics and compositions of the crime and all things within the framework of each crime are broken down. It is exactly the same in the Law of Property Act, which speaks of different nuances in that law. And now we are in exactly the same situation that the comments of our executive edition, the Riigikogu Labour and Rules of Procedure Act, provide clear guidance on what this means, this law, how it is applied and so on. Maybe then I have no doubt about your understanding of the interpretation of the law, but if we have an executive edition ahead of us, which the legislator has wanted to say by this, then in any case this issue must be discussed here on the Riigikogu's board, because it is crucial. There's no point in trying to dig a hole in asphalt, if it's technically impossible with a shovel, you have to dig where the shovel goes in. We are doing a terrible job here, we are voting in ten minutes, and it turns out that, in fact, this interpretation of the law now, say, was not the most successful one and we should have followed the letter in the executive edition of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure. So, in terms of both objective and economics, it would be wise to take a break now, discuss it calmly, perhaps also to include a body of elders in order for it to be more thorough. So I'm almost proposing this procedure to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U120	Thank you. First of all, the rules of procedure and home, not the rules of work and the rules of procedure, although this is a small thing. Home and operating procedures. Okay. I am currently referring to what is stated in Paragraph 83 (2): "Before voting, the chairman or vice-chairman of a permanent committee or political group may request a break of up to 10 minutes. "And now, after the word "recess," there is a point. There is no comma or any other idea that only this can be demanded by the opposition party. Well, I understand you're relying on this commentary on the rules of procedure, which is also a good helper. Now for your procedural proposal, take a break and convene a body of elders. I don't see why yet. I don't see it yet. But I say that what Mart Helme said, I at all do not rule out that if we really vote on them for a very long time here, and we know that the regular session will end on Thursday, then really maybe this tension should be discussed here in the Riigikogu on how to proceed from here. Procedural question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U121	Thank you again! To clarify to my colleague Erki Keldo, I explain that opposition and opposition in politics are different terms. There is a separate definition of an opposition to a policy consisting of one or more political parties, persons or organisations that oppose themselves to a government, a political party or a group that has power. I now have the question: if you all find that it is also in accordance with the law, do we now have a situation where the Reform Party has broken so much that there has been a separate faction of the Riigikogu of the Reform Party and there is a government, an illegal government, and now they are opposite each other. Whether they are a separate Group of the Reform Party or a Reform Party 1 faction that is not related at all to a government party, they two sing as if there is confusion because they cannot oppose themselves? After all, the law is firmly designed in the same way, and it is not possible at the same time to be a government and then to do an obstruction against its own government. That's not possible. How about an explanation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U122	Yeah, thanks! I also think it can't be that there's a major team and a double team in politics. But theoretically, it is possible to contrast here in the Riigikogu, in the government, in theory. But I don't think that's what the Reform Party is doing right now. This initiative, by the way, didn't come from the government. It came from the ambassadors. So here we are. A procedural question, Erki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U123	Thank you. The President of the good sitting has already explained a bit that, just as the previous procedural questioner asked what was opposed to or how, and on the second half of his first sentence, there was a nice letter to a certain group and contrast, as I said nicely, that the confrontation is taking place with a specific draft of 619 SE and their initiators, because we have said in the Reform Party that it has been done rashly, without involving people and experts, and in this form we cannot support it in any way, and the confrontation is taking place on a specific draft, which is not in any way sent to Parliament by the previous or current government, but is by the group's ambassadors to whom the confrontation is taking place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U124	Thank you. Well, that was such a comment. Thank you for that explanation. Let's move on. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U125	Thank you, Mr President. I listened very carefully to how you drew attention to my mistake, where I said the Labour and Rules of Procedure Act, you said the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I like it very much, you're punctually accurate, no mistakes allowed in. But now I'm in a bit of a dilemma that I don't understand you. You referred to this one section of the law that you have the right to take a break, but to the same norm that is currently being debated, in that regard, you did not explain any position, i.e. its interaction, because I say... And that's your interpretation. But I would point out that interpretation has very, let's say, different techniques to understand the availability of the norm, so that there is a grammatical interpretation, meaning the language of the wording, there is also a logical interpretation that uses the rules of formalology, systematic interpretation, historical interpretation, as well as teleological interpretation to determine the content of the legislation. So maybe in the forms and norms of interpretation, you could open up this legal provision you're referring to and the content of the legal provision we're referring to in terms of the form of these six interpretation norms.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U126	Thank you. I mean, the same book, this executive publication of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, tells us how any section, paragraph or paragraph of the law will be understood and tried to explain it. You mentioned your procedural question: historical interpretation. I say that this practice has indeed been the case, which my fellow official, Kert Kingo, pointed out. But politics is, point one, dynamic. Sometimes there are other solutions, interesting solutions, as the XIV has brought, but I say once again: Erki Keldo in this case, I think it has been based on § 83 (2), which says that the chairman or vice-chairman of a committee or a political group can demand a break up to ten minutes before the vote, and this law does not talk about whether it can be demanded by the opposition party or by the coalition party. Sometimes there may be both places, one leg here, the other leg there. Kert Kingo, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U127	Thanks again for the opportunity! I don't think it's right to say it's possible to ask for ten minutes. An amendment is needed to take this ten-minute break. We are not talking about amendments that are within ten or even a hundred. We are talking about amendments that have been discussed in this Chamber in total 1191. It's called obstruction, it should be clear to us now. Let me also make it clear to Erkki Keldo that "group of individuals" or, let's say, "party by," there was also this sentence "who is in power." And now we're getting to what's basic. I read here from Wikipedia that obstruction is a deliberate and artificial obstruction of the work of Parliament by the opposition. Since we have a situation in which there are no longer two different political parties in the government, but there is only one party, the Reform Party, and in this very hall the Reform Party, which itself is in power, is doing an obstruction, it runs counter to the idea of an obstruction that we read from all sides: the opposition party can make an obstruction against either the group of persons or the party that is in power. I don't know who they're gonna be obstructing now. Will they detract themselves from the opposition party because, according to the interpretations of the law, they are unable to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U128	Yes, thank you! I guess this political situation is really complicated right now. I really understand what you're saying, and I'm saying it's really the way it's been that the obstruction is used by the opposition. I said politics are dynamic, and right now someone said it was like a douche scheme, I guess. But at the moment, this legal break can be taken by any political group if requested by the chairman or his vice-chairman. Erkki Keldo is, as far as I know, the vice-president of the Reform Party Group. But the idea you're saying, Kert Kingo, it's been so, I agree with it, it's been that way. But to say that's why they can't take it? The law doesn't do that kind of restraint. The law doesn't, our law on home and working procedures doesn't do that kind of restraint. That's what I think it is. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, your procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U129	Thank you, good Chairman! When Keldo, vice-president of the Reform Party, announced that the opposition to the group's ambassadors and he said that there had been no use of experts, that the Bureau was aware that experts had been used in these quantitative amendments, so that we would also know in the Riigikogu Hall. I myself am convinced that many of the initiators here have already reached the status of an expert from family creation and practice, or children have reached a school path somewhere. But when so confidently said that no experts had been used, what experts have been used specifically for these quantitative amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U130	Thank you. First of all, I say that, as far as I know, Erki Keldo, it is none of my business to say, he is not the vice-president of the Reform Party, he is the vice-president of the Reform Party Group, but perhaps there have also been changes, and there are already political parties, young men, rapid increases. But what I want to say about experts, I do not know, I do not know what experts have been used for these amendments. I don't have that information, I don't have it right now. Kalle Grünthal, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Gradually, 'dynamically', we have now moved in such a direction on the point you have initiated that your opinion will gradually coincide with Kert Kingo's explanation. So I can say that you are currently using teleological interpretation, which means that you are trying to introduce the idea of legislation through the aim of its adoption and the intentions of its authors. In principle, it is also used as a single source, then it is the preamble to the same law. But that's the question right now. What are we doing here now? We are trying to interpret law, the necessity and justification of this legislation in terms of law. And here we are still in a situation where we are between two, first of all, whether it is one way or another. However, in order for this abstract rule to be applied in connection with particular vital circumstances, the person applying the law must make clear to himself the substance and the meaning of that provision. And here we are now in a slightly different situation that we cannot solve this issue right here in this Chamber, especially after you actually gave support to Kert Kingo's interpretation through your own thought. Do you understand? You admitted in the meaning of teleological interpretation that Kert Kingo is right, but at the same time you say you can't. So if you justify that Kert Kingo is right, and then maybe you can't, then tell me why such a controversial explanation. And yet it would make sense to call a board right now and make sure this thing doesn't get too messy around here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U132	Thank you. No As the head of the Riigikogu, I can say that this practice, this content has really been as Kert Kingo claimed or said how the obstruction has been used. But the rules of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act are general. These standards do not distinguish between one or the other, the opposition or the coalition. And these holidays can be taken, as I have said, by all committees or political groups. That is why I do not believe that this substantive reason can be implemented at the moment. Peter Ernits, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U133	Yeah. Good manager! Mr Keldo here said that he should be like expert opinion. But do you know that when, one year before the beginning of the Russian occupation or of the Russian attack on Ukraine, three parliamentarians Ants Laaneots, Jüri Jaanson and Urmas Kruuse put forward a proposal for a referendum to consider joining the Russian Federation, did they have any or any expertise there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U134	Thank you. I don't have that information, I don't. Kert Kingo, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U135	Yeah, thanks again! I still can't be at peace with this interpretation... The fact that one is an internship at the moment, at least I have been based on what is written in a commentary. Secondly, there are two different issues. One is that the obstruction and the other is that there is a break. They can also be dealt with separately. A ten-minute break can also be taken without having to have thousands of amendments. Ten minutes can also be taken for only one amendment, i.e. it is therefore completely separate. In my opinion, this cannot be interpreted as meaning that, since everyone has the right to take a ten-minute break, it also applies during the obstruction, even if the law does not provide that the coalition party has the right to do the obstruction. And I have a feeling that since there is such confusion, legal confusion and we need legal clarity, I think we need to go to the Supreme Court with this issue in order to get clarity, because it may not be the first time and a very strange situation in which self-governance is now being obstructed. But once again, this ten-minute break is not a stand-alone one, because at the moment we have still defined and which, according to the rules, seems to be an obstruction, so that the paragraph that deals with obstruction and there is no coalition party inside it should apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U136	Thank you. I know this isn't the custom, but I'm still gonna ask Kert Kingo to give that microphone back and please help me. What section deals with obstruction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U137	This is Chapter 10, § 57, and in the commentary on the explanations, it is page 213, point four.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U138	Thank you. § 57 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. "Home and Rules of Procedure Act § 57. Location of the hearing. Paragraph one, Sessions of the Riigikogu will take place in the Chamber of Toompea Castle in Tallinn, unless the President of the Riigikogu determines a second meeting if there are compelling reasons." Paragraph two. At the decision of the management board of the Riigikogu, the sitting of the Riigikogu with a remote participation provided for in § 89 Prim of this Act may be conducted by electronic means at one of the places mentioned in subsection 1 of this section or at a physical venue. Okay. Now this § 89 primam talks about the conduct of a remote sitting, and this is due to the fact that there was a corona virus in June 2020. Now I hear you're talking about § 56 at all. Supplementing the agenda. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. [[Sighs.]] I can't find this obstruction, so please help me! Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U139	Thank you, Mr President. I'm getting out of this right now, and I'm still coming up with interpretation. You are absolutely stuck with the rule now that you have the right to take a break and so on. But the question right now is... [[Summing in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] I don't know if there's time to listen. Yeah, it's okay, isn't it? I would point out that we cannot interpret just one norm. Here, it is necessary to systematically interpret, in other words, to determine the meaning of certain terms and rules, taking into account all the provisions of the legislation concerned, not just what is intended to be interpreted. The concept defined by the law may have been made subject to clarification - limitations in other norms. So in this respect, we can't just be stuck in one standard. In my opinion, you have not used this systematic interpretation at the moment, although you have made progress in teleological interpretation, has given Kert Kingo the right. But now I would also like to get the same result in terms of systematic interpretation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U140	Thank you. I will answer your question in the same way as I said to Kert Kingo that this has been the practice of the Riigikogu, which Kert Kingo is talking about. Obstruction is usually used by the opposition party or parties. Has it been the other way around? I don't remember, but maybe it has. The law, the Law on Home and Working Procedures, why I asked to return this microphone to Kert Kingo, does not talk about obstruction, [but] says that all these rules are general. General to one, another and third parties, general to the opposition and coalition. And this rule continues to be, I say, the same recess. I'm sorry, I'd like to keep debating with you, but we have our shifts here. But I'm sure maybe new and fresh thoughts will come along now. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U141	Thank you, good Chairman! I have a procedural question about the fact that, when we have now learned that the employer, or the Riigikogu, has a desire to amend the law, but the minority government has given a clear signal that it does not want it, how do we have legal support, that if Parliament decides in favour of this amendment to the law and the government does not do so, whether we can shove them or then, I don't know, take the salary or the bonus or something that they still take the employer's wish seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U142	Thank you. No, we're not giving a rod to anyone. Those days are over. But what I say, yes, if the legislative power has taken a decision, in this case the Riigikogu, then it is for executive power, or government, to really enforce. In this case, we are actually talking about the financial commitment that the government makes when it is adopted must be taken into account, in September, rather on the last working day of September of the Riigikogu, when it gives here the budget and the budgetary strategy procedure of the state. So that's what he has to take into account when it's accepted. But now, good fellows, I really very much thank you, this has been an interesting discussion. The executives have their turn, too. It is once that there is now a change of manager, Hanno Pevkur is coming here, who will certainly take a fresh look into this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U143	Now, with new fresh energy, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U144	Thank you, good new President-in-Office. I hope you have followed this discussion here, you certainly have your very firm opinion and conviction on this point, and I am very pleased that I can ask you this. We were talking here about § 83, which lays down the procedure for voting, and it does indeed provide for breaks before the vote. But when we talk about obstruction, the obstruction is explained here, and indeed, there is also a description of what the obstruction contains. Indeed, the obstruction also includes the taking of these breaks, as provided for in § 83 of the voting procedure, including those votes or those breaks. Please tell us clearly whether we have a regular vote in this Chamber today or whether we have an obstruction here today. Then it will be your responsibility to formulate it also in the interests of history, which we have here today. And then we may be able to make a point and move on, but then this decision will be your responsibility, because we've been discussing before, which is an obstruction, which is voting. Can an obstruction only be made by an opposition, or can it be done by someone else? Who's it against, against the government, against some group? But in that case, please state: do we have a normal vote today with over 1000 amendments or do we have an obstruction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U145	Thank you for that question. I can rely on the Home and Working Procedures Act. The Home and Rules of Procedure Act says that we are currently voting on amendments, so it is as simple as that. We have reached the vote on Amendment 72 and hopefully we will be able to carry it out immediately. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U146	Thank you. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for a vote on this amendment, but before the vote, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U147	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U148	Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over. I shall put the 72nd amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U149	With the result of 18, against 40, the proposal was not supported. We will move on to Amendment 73 tabled by Mr Kannimäe. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U150	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on by the Reform Party Group, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U151	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U152	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 73. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U153	With the result of 17, against 42, the proposal was not supported. We have reached the 74th amendment by Sulev Kannimäe. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U154	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on by the Reform Party Group, but I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U155	Break 10 minutes... Mr. Ratas. I'm sorry! There's no recess yet. Mr. Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U156	A procedural question. Mr President, you have no information on any other proposal regarding the length of the intermission from any other group? There hasn't been a competitive proposal, has there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U157	It hasn't come now. But you have a group chairman or vice-chairmen somewhere, you can ask them. But even if it did, Mr. Speaker, you know very well that since Mr. Keldo has already taken ten minutes, there is no less and no more. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U158	I shall put the 74th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U159	With the result of 15 and against 41, the proposal was not supported. Let us move on to the 75th proposal presented by Sulev Kannimäe. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U160	Thank you, good manager. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but before ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U161	Break. No, however, Mr. Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Do you have any information on why the other political groups do not have any activity here on this item and ask for a vote and do not ask for breaks? Is there a reason, can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U163	Thank you. I can't, but maybe we can figure it out on two. Let's go find the chairman of your group and ask how the middle group is. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U164	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 75. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U165	In favour of 17, against 38, the proposal was not supported. We will move on to Amendment 76 tabled by Mr Kannimäe. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U166	Eight minutes of intermission before the vote, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U167	And Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U168	Thank you, good manager. I would first like to ask for a vote on behalf of the Reform Party Group and then actually ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U169	So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that eight and ten cannot be added. You can't multiply it either. It's a ten-minute break. Please, ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U170	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 76. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U171	In favour of 17, against 41, the proposal was not supported. Let us move forward, Amendment 77, tabled by Sulev Kannimäe. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U172	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment by the Reform Party Group and take ten minutes' break before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U173	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U174	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote Amendment 77. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U175	In favour of 19, against 39, the proposal was not supported. We will proceed to the 78th amendment tabled by Mr Keldo. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U176	Thank you very much, dear Hanno Pevkur. I would like to put this amendment to the vote on behalf of the Reform Party Group and also take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U177	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U178	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put 78 amendments to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U179	In favour of 19, against 39, the proposal was not supported. Let's move on. 79th amendment tabled by Mr Kannimäe. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U180	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to vote on this amendment and take ten minutes' break before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U181	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U182	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 79. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U183	In favour of 20, against 37, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 80 has been tabled by Mr Järveoja. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U184	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I would ask for this amendment to be voted in favour of the Group of the Reform Party, and before that, I would like to take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U185	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U186	I shall put the 80th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U187	With the result of 18, against 37, the proposal was not supported. We will proceed to amendment 81 tabled by Mr Järveoja, Mr Aro and Mr Randpere. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U188	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-President Hanno Pevkur. I would like to put this amendment to the vote by the Reform Party Group and also take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U189	Break 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U190	Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached Amendment 81... Why do I have 80 here? before [amendment]? We have 81? We voted '80s. I've got a system for 80, should be 81. [amendment] to be. 80 votes have been cast. Oh, that's why it's showing. All right, then it's all right. We have reached the vote on Amendment 81; I will put the 81st amendment to the vote before you. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U191	In favour of 16, against 41, the proposal was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 82. It is presented by Toomas Järveoja, Jüri Jaanson and Timo Suslov. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U192	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to put this amendment to the vote in favour of the Reform Party Group and also take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U193	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U194	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the Reform Party Group has ended. I'm glad to see our work hasn't dried up. I shall put the 82nd amendment to the vote and this has been neglected by the commission. Performers: Toomas Järveoja, Jüri Jaanson and Timo Suslov. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U195	This amendment is supported by 17 delegates, 40 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 83, performed by Heidy Purga, Timo Suslov and Mati Raidma, has been rejected by the commission. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U196	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. I would ask for this amendment to be voted in favour of the Group of the Reform Party, and before that, I would also take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U197	Yeah, ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U198	We will continue the sitting, Amendment 83, the authors Purga, Suslov and Raidma and the commission of responsibility have failed, and we must vote on it. Please take a stand!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U199	This amendment is supported by 17 delegates, against 36. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 84, tabled by Mr Purga and Mr Toomas and the commission did not take this into account. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U200	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I ask for this amendment to be voted on behalf of the Reform Party Group, and I will also take a ten-minute break before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U201	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U202	Amendment 84, performed by Mr Purga and Mr Toomas. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. The Reform Party Group has asked for a vote. Please take a stand!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U203	This proposal is supported by 17 delegates, 38 against, with 0 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 85, tabled by Valdo Randpere, Sulev Kannimäe, has been rejected by the commission. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U204	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I am asking for this amendment to be put to the vote on behalf of the Reform Party Group and also to take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U205	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U206	Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the 85th amendment, by Valdo Randpere, Sulev Kannimäe, the lead committee has failed. Ah, and this has been requested by the Reform Party to vote. I ask you to take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U207	There are 16 ambassadors in favour of this proposal, against 36. The proposal was not supported. And we will move on to Amendment 86, the performers Valdo Randpere and Erkki Keldo and the lead committee have ignored. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U208	Thank you very much, Mr Helme, Vice-President of the Riigikogu. I would like to put this amendment to the vote on behalf of the Reform Party Group and also take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U209	Let's take a ten-minute break. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U210	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on Amendment 86. The Reform Party has asked to vote on this. Its performers are Valdo Randpere and Erkki Keldo, and the commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U211	In favour of the proposal 18 against 34, the ambassadors' proposal was not supported. Let's move on, Amendment 87, performers Valdo Randpere, Toomas Kivimägi, the lead committee has failed. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U212	Thank you very much, Mr Helme. I would ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, and before that, I would like to take a ten-minute break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U213	Let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U214	Amendment 87, performed by Valdo Randpere and Toomas Kivimägi, has been rejected by the commission. The Reform Party has asked for a vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U215	Amendment 18 in favour, against 37, was not supported. Amendment 88, tabled by Mr Randpere and Mr Michal, has been rejected by the commission. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U216	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I ask for this amendment to be voted on behalf of the Reform Party Group, but before that, I will take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U217	Yeah, it's a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U218	Amendment 88, tabled by Mr Randpere and Mr Michal, has been rejected by the commission. The Reform Party has asked for a vote, so I ask you to vote and take a position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U219	In favour of the proposal 19, with 33 votes against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 89, tabled by Mr Randpere and Ms Raidma, has been rejected by the commission. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U220	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the Riigikogu. I ask for this amendment to be voted on behalf of the Reform Party Group, but before that, I will take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U221	Ten-minute break. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U222	Amendment 89, tabled by Mr Randpere and Ms Raidma. The commission has not taken this into account and we will put it to the vote. Please take a stand!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U223	This proposal is in favour of 17, with 37, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 90-wow how far we are! The proposers are Valdo Randpere and Andrus Seede, the lead committee has rejected this. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U224	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, for giving the floor. I would like to take a ten-minute break and, after that, I would ask for this amendment to be voted on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U225	Yeah, first a vote request and then a break request. Here's what we're gonna do. Ten minutes break. Mikhail Stalnukhin, are we going to solve the procedure when we come back from the break? Then we'll have to start solving the procedure. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U226	We'll take a break and then we'll ask for a vote. That's not how we do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U227	Yes, exactly so, the first thing to do is to ask for a vote...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U228	We couldn't take any break with this formulation. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U229	I'd like to offer another word to Heidy Purga. Do you want to specify the order in which you want to do things?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U230	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I would ask for this amendment to be voted on by the Reform Party Group, but I would like to take a break before the war.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U231	That's right, it can be done. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U232	So, our hardworking collective is in the 90th amendment, it is produced by Randpere and Seed, this has not been taken into account by the commission. The Reform Party Group asked for a vote. I'm asking for your position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U233	The proposal is 18 in favour, 35 against, and the proposal was not supported. Amendment 91, performed by Timo Suslov and Ivi Eenmaa, has been rejected by the commission. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U234	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. I would ask for this amendment to be voted on by the Reform Party Group, but before that, I would like to take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U235	Thank you. I would point out that we should not "beg," but "please" but all right, let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U236	We're back, 92nd Amendment. Sorry, Amendment 91, performed by Timo Suslov and Ivi Eenmaa. The lead committee has not taken into account. The Reform Party asked for a vote, so... Ay-ay, before the vote, we have a procedure. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U237	Good manager! I do have this kind of procedure. For example, is it possible to duplicate the same proposal for improvement in an endless number of times and put different numbers. Here, for example, my colleague on the Net Vessel has a proposal of 844, 854, 844, all identical amendments and, by the way, endorses this draft, saying that it will enter into force on 1 January 2023. So can you put forward an endless set of corrections with exactly the same wording, only the numbers are different?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U238	Well, it's not the same if the number's different. The number of the amendment is different, sorry! But here it has to be said that, of course, we have not reached that point. However, in general terms, this preparatory work must be done by the Commission to us so that the same amendments do not have to come to us. And if we get to them and they are the same, then we can start a debate on the fact that we have already voted on it and not have to vote again. Is that understood? Very good. But then we go to the vote. Amendment 91. [[A voice from the hall.]] Amendment 91. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U239	This amendment was supported by 14 votes against, 39 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 92, tabled by Timo Suslov and Toomas Järveoja, has not been taken into account by the commission. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U240	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I am asking for this amendment to be voted on, and before that, I will take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U241	Let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U242	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Reform Party Group has ended. We are on the 92nd amendment and will vote on it. But before that, Peter Ernits, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U243	Yes, a good manager, indeed, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U244	Of course!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U245	In examining these excellent proposals, I found, for example, nine proposals, with a number of 526.534, signed by someone named Alender, in the same way that Stalin or Lenin or Suslov or Ratas or Ernits could be. Is it possible, in the technical sense, not to have to sign the first name anymore by the ambassador, only by the artist's name? Or is it Yoko Alender at all, maybe someone else is Alender?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U246	Thank you. Since these amendments have come quite a lot, well over a thousand this time to make things better, quite a number of amendments only have, I have also noticed, a last name. So I think it's meant to be our good fellow Yoko Alender, today's birthday boy. Congratulations to him! Now, Peter Ernits, another procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U247	Good manager! But we have three Helmets here right now, and some time ago there were two Kallas. How, then, can you tell the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U248	First of all, as far as I know, there's only one Kallas, and Siim Kallas is our co-worker. In the case of beads, the question is, indeed, the question is. As far as I know, there is no problem with these 1191 amendments, but perhaps there is. When we get there, we'll try to figure it out. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U249	Thank you, good Chairman! Now, if it was quietly started here with the Beads and Kallaste, then we have two Kokkas, and they're in completely different groups. Is it enough to just have a last name?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U250	I'll be honest with you, we'll watch it when we get there. Well, I understand we're talking about Rene Chef and Aivar Chef, but I think we can do it, and both of us will definitely come to the attention of the President and at that moment they will tell who made this amendment. Peter Ernits, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U251	Good manager! I agree that we have two cooks here, and let's say three more Helmets, and if they sign Helme and they don't put the number that the first, the second or the third, but whether it is, I'm talking procedurally about whether I can propose improvements like this. And perhaps, for example, Mr President, you could also sign all over the Wheel only. Or is it acceptable?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U252	Thank you. Well, I don't know that the Beads would be as Roman as you say, I, II, III, I really don't know it, but maybe you have it in the group. But we can't put it on this board that we have to rely on Helle-Moonika Helme, Mart Helme and Martin Helme. We're not gonna put a Roman number in the back here. But, good fellows, we understand that many amendments were received. The amendments mainly came from members of the Reform Party Group and were made on paper. They needed to be transferred to the computer, that's what I was talking about, digitalized, as they say today. And certainly maybe in some place where that first name could have been, it was missing. Most of them do. Although I remember that when we were on Thursday or when it was, the last time we dealt with this bill, some first names were missing. It was hard to track at first, but I did it. I mean, as far as I know, the amendments have full names, but in the print versions it can really happen to be a last name. I think we can do this, it's not that big a problem, and Helmed will come to the rescue, you can ask who's done it, and I don't think they're gonna play some kind of trick around here. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U253	Thank you, Mr President. I think that there is no dispute between us about the fact that we are legislators. And we also have no dispute about the fact that we are absolutely precise and exemplary in the implementation of the law and other legislation. I don't think we're gonna have any argument here. But the subject that Mrs Ernits raised is that Alender has only signed it, in my opinion, we cannot go on with this question the way you are proposing now, good Ratas, Jüri. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U254	Yes, Kalle Grünthal, I can hear you very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U255	The question is that we have the regulation of the drafts to be processed in the Riigikogu, and if there is a rule, we must act in accordance with the provisions of this rule, but not make our own creations and place the first, second or third in front of our good colleagues. We can't do that. If there are rules, we have to comply with the rules, and that is why it is a cull that must be thrown out of here, under the desk, and to make sure that the Commission is not complying with its obligations responsibly. I think there's a right. What is your opinion on this? Let's not go like we're quite like, oh, we're somehow gonna be okay. I can't! You can't do that if the regulation says otherwise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U256	Thank you. Well, there are many things now. It seems that this morning has even begun with these names, surnames and first names. It started this morning, I understand, between the members of the Riigikogu. But I mean, what I'm saying is, they're written in paper, they're definitely first and last names. I think we all understand that there's been a lot of work, and I'm certainly not gonna blame this office for who really had to put them on the computer. If your proposal is that it somehow doesn't throw it down from here, I won't throw it down. I think we're gonna make it. I am in a hurry to see that most of the proposals have first and last names. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U257	Thank you! Mr President, you have repeatedly said here that the Commission received amendments on paper. As little as I or many amendments have tabled, the people of the Commission have always asked me whether it is possible to send a text file, and I have always come back. I have not read this bull, which was good stuff for a member of the Riigikogu, now written by Kallas, because I don't give a shit, there are no pictures in it. Friends said there's no point in looking, not even pictures that deserve it. But what does it say about us, let's say this: should a member of the Riigikogu be responsive to the committee, then to the staff that supports us? I understand that maybe two or three ambassadors, well, just hate officials, it happens. But it's kind of massive, how can we handle it? Is there anything that the Rules of Procedure say about this, because I know, for example, that we can make some statements or things here, we still need to hand over in electronic form, so that he stays in the so-called annals of history.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U258	Thank you. No, the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure say nothing about that. Yes, it is true that you yourself described the human request that the Commission officials are saying that if possible, please send it electronically, it will be easier. This can also be done in a paper manuscript. But, of course, that means at this point in time that it has to be brought into the form of a computer. If these are some proposals, I believe that this is not a problem, if there is a very small deadline for amendments, very short, sorry, and there are many. There's quite a lot in this bill, over a thousand. Well, I guess it's a human aspect that I can't say that someone's been torturing someone now. That's what I'm saying, like the lyrics say, that I don't think that's the case. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U259	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! As I understand it, from now on either Ernits or Ratas or Stalin or Alender or... It's not that important. But another, which I would also like to ask, for example, if the Net Vessel, Mart has tabled, for example, at least three amendments, number 844, 851, and 854, which are completely identical, the content is exactly one to one, whether they can be duplicated in a procedural way by 1000 amendments or by 500 or only three. Is this accepted? I tried to find somewhere in the documents, but I didn't find that one of the exact same proposals could be dealt with many times.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U260	Dear fellow official, I must admit that I have not specifically looked at these proposals. And that is why I would stick to the reply from the previous President that he gave us that we have not yet reached this stage of these proposals. We've got a little land to go there, we're only on the 92nd proposal right now. But if there are identical suggestions, then you have to look at them for a moment. We wrote down the numbers, and we're dealing with it, so when we get there, of course, we have to look at identical proposals that we vote on several times here. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U261	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, Mr Jüri Ratas, you deserve the position in which you are currently sitting, because you have made us aware of the crucial information that the amendments tabled digitally differ from the amendments tabled on paper. This means that we have, in essence, 2 000 of these, the proposals, the amendments with something. However, in order to avoid any repetition and continuation of the cull that we currently produce here completely freely, it is actually necessary to take a three-hour break, to compare the identity of both electronic and paper media, because it cannot be that one has one text and the other text. This proposal, by the way, is not just mine, here several members of the Riigikogu have pointed out that there is a very serious and technical shortage here. I'm really asking you, let's take a three-hour break, let's take a look at it, because we can't keep making this dump.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U262	Thank you. I'm not quite sure that it's so technically established that it has to be exactly that first and last name down there, point one. Point two is this: you know very well, Kalle Grünthal, we cannot, I cannot take a three-hour break. The manager can take a half-hour break at the maximum. And what was I gonna say? Both proposals can be tabled, both digitally and in writing. But if there are many, of course, it will be easier for the lead committee, the agency, to fix these proposals if they are submitted electronically, as said by a good colleague, Tarmo Kruusimäe, about his experience. The department still asks if you can, please send it digitally. But we'll see... Yes, for a moment more to Peeter Ernits: we will examine these eight centuries amendments, which you said were completely identical. When we're ready, we'll give you information about it. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U263	Thank you! Before the procedure, I'd like to say that the manager may not be able to take, he can take half-hours. But under the pressure of circumstances, I would simply remind you that on 13 February 2019, when Riina Sikkut simply wanted to interrupt a tobacco bill, because the large hall had voted in inappropriate changes, the Prime Minister was sought to do so. And then you were, and you weren't available, so we had over three hours of being here in a mood. So it's possible in time. But I wanted to ask you this. I understand that one argument where we can get sloppy is that there are many amendments. It would be extremely important for us to be able to determine where there is a lot of land. We can't say... Well, in spoken language, we can joke that there's a lot when a horse is carried, right? But I don't think anyone with a horse started taking these amendments to the fourth floor. Is that 500, for example? So that we also know as ambassadors, if we make more than 500 amendments, we can do more sloppyly, well, repeat, sign or even manually, in a non-readable text, as these doctors write these diagnosiss. Where does that come from, what do we call it? I still prefer quality to quantity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U264	Thank you. It really hasn't been fixed, there's a lot from where and there's not enough from where. Henn Põllaas, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U265	Thank you, President-in-Office. I want to support my good benchmate here. Indeed, with these similar, essentially similar proposals and the same, § 102 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu states that the amendments, the author of which is the same, were given examples, for example, of the Netship, and which are essentially related, are included in the list of amendments and then voted on one, not all of them. So during the proceedings in this Chamber, we could probably look through these thousands or thousands of pointless proposals and vote on those that have any content or are different, with the President's goodwill and leadership.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U266	Thank you. Your penguin is ahead of the pace with the 752 circa amendment, with the 750 circa, but as I promised you, we will review what Peeter Ernits said, these three amendments, we fixed these numbers, we will come as soon as possible and certainly, Mr Henn Põljaas, your comment will also give us more information on how to deal with them. I think that this is the case, and that is also the case, as you have just said, but let us give some time to say that this is not the most topical issue at the moment. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U267	Thank you, Mr President. Before I come to this procedural remark, I would like to remind you of the spring of last year. There was no obstruction at the time, but there was an enormous amount of bill piled up on Wednesday. Then this interesting thing happened that we discussed a bill in the middle of the night somewhere between two and four, and I think Peter Ernits summed it up with a very good sentence that the devil, out of the middle of the night, is a big corona crisis, and we're already discussing the third hour of dog chipping here. It was a story, I'm sure you remember. Then the President of the sitting took a very resolute decision, a correct remark, and turned the matter together in such a way that we went on from there, we went on to the Korona subjects, which was a very important and very signicant meaning for the President of the sitting. In fact, this should be exactly the same behavior from your personality right now. We have found in this Chamber that similar drafts have not been grouped, the Commission has not grouped them. We have now identified the facts that the drafts are exactly the same... I'm sorry! The amendments are the same. Here we cannot move forward until this committee has to work again and take a break for so long, because we cannot do such pointless work when there is an energy crisis outside, we have a fuel crisis, we have a cost of living. We need to deal with these issues, to move on to these issues, but not to engage in the debate on chip content here when there are more important problems in life.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U268	Thank you. I am pretty sure that the officials of the Riigikogu's board as well as the executive officer are already working on the same issue to review these amendments. We will come up with this solution as soon as possible. However, this does not currently interfere with the procedure concerning Amendment 92. As I said, Peeter Ernits has jumped 750 amendments with skilful equestrians. Well, we haven't gotten there yet. But we'll be there soon. I'm pretty sure I'm okay with it. We'll figure it out first. A procedural question, René Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U269	Thank you, good Chairman. I do have a procedure, absolutely. Here, among these proposals, indeed, there are quite a number of proposals that I do not consider to be technically compliant. For the sake of the future, all political groups should be treated in the same way in the Riigikogu. Can you say today that, for example, the amendment is not mandatory to include clarification? There's an explanation, there's no explanation. In the past, the EKRE is also some of the amendments during the retirement period, and it is very clearly required to formalise the rules correctly. Actually, there are problems in here right now. I just want it to be pointed out in the interests of the verbatim report that in the future, everyone who formulates proposals should formalise them correctly in the technical sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U270	Thank you. The answer is yes, there must be an explanation. And the extra prayer to you is that if there are any ones that don't have it, please let me know on the rolling note that we can also review them then. Procedural question, Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U271	Thank you, Mr President. There are a lot of questions here about the amendments, whether they were the same and whether they have been adequately protected and whether they have been technically correct. I dare myself to think that the things I presented myself are different. But the question is actually broader: would it not have been for all these questions if Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, had taken the trouble of discussing these amendments in committee in substance and listening to the authors, rather than passing them through the rams committee in a few hours? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U272	Thank you. I'm not going down on those guys right now. The story that was said here before you were in the hall, I think... For example, one example of what Peter Ernits pointed out: Amendment 844. Contents: Add § 2 to the draft text as follows: § 2: Entry into force of the Act. This Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. Artist: Mart Võrguship, position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. 851: Add § 2 to the draft text as follows: Entry into force of the Act. This Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. Submitter Mart Võrguship, the position of the commission is not taken into account. It was like an example. 854 was asked to supplement § 2 of the draft text as follows: § 2: Entry into force of the Act. This Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. Mart Võrguship, author of the amendment, position of the commission not to take into account. Quick analysis says it's completely identical, but let's go through them. That was what Mr Ernits pointed out. Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U273	Thank you, President-in-Office. I would like to ask, on my procedural question, perhaps your assessment that, when my colleague Mart Võrguship here accused the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee that he had not done his job correctly and that is why we are in a situation where we are. Maybe you could give this thing the other way around, or I'll offer it the other way around. In order for you to make an assessment that perhaps the good practice of the work of a member of the Riigikogu should include the fact that he does his own work as correctly as possible, that when he presents his amendments, they have already been properly drafted in advance, I also remember that when our group proposed amendments to one of the draft laws here, all of them were reviewed by the Commission. There was a very, very, very loud pickling, and I wonder how one party is allowed to crack like this, and in the other, a hair of hair is crucified, long and diagonally and around. That I do not agree with the accusations made by reform parties here in the direction of the chairman of the Commission and not even in the direction of Commission officials, but I, as chairman, would still make a comment here to the representatives of these amendments, that they have drafted their proposals in a sloppy, incorrect, ambiguous way, and that, as we are hearing, they have actually tried to trick us in the hope that, if they do, well, I do not know almost 2 000 amendments that were at first, that this was going through and, as it seems, it went through, perhaps as our legislator, what we are doing here, we are dealing with a crack that is actually not the fault of the chairman of the Commission, but is the fault of the authors of the amendments. Why don't you give it your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U274	Thank you. I don't think anyone here has been so terribly accused right now. What I said and will continue to say is, of course, easier for all members of the Riigikogu, the administration, when these proposals are made, it is recommended to do so in writing, please, but also sent digitally. That wasn't the case this time, they've all come to reprint. Since then, this avalanche of procedural questions that has been here, why do some proposals have only family names? Yes, it is. We all understand that we are still following these amendments, where this last name is the person who is a member of the Riigikogu and not from anywhere outside the Riigikogu. And now let's move on to procedural questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U275	Thank you, good Chairman! We learned from Mart Võrguship that since the Social Affairs Committee did not have this opportunity to introduce these things, all of this began with a little historical memory. First of all, the outgoing Prime Minister announced that if you start working on this law, we'll start juggling. Is my reference correct in this respect, because thousands of amendments had to come from somewhere? Or the Reform Party simply came out of goodwill with over 1,000 amendments, and the later outgoing Prime Minister said that if you start working on this bill, the coalition will be broken and then we'll start juggling. Juntima then means the popular expression for this obstruction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U276	Thank you. You know, I'm honestly saying that so much water has flowed into the sea here in the last few weeks, which and how it's all been exactly, it's hard to say from here on out. The amendments have been tabled, I believe, in good faith and in the will to make things better, more than 1000 or perhaps even more. Let's talk now. As you can see, we can't say that somehow we've slowed down here. 91 amendments, as has been said, and we will move on from here now. I think very serious thoughts and breaks are being taken, people are consulting their own. Invite even, here was an example, did Signe Kivi say that she invited her colleagues to the cafeteria to explain this amendment? So I can't say there's no disco. Andres Metsoja, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U277	Thank you, Mr President. You really have questions in your head and...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U278	Just procedure now, okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U279	The procedure, of course, because we've been talking about the procedure for a long time. Yes, it is. If Amendment 1, I will illustrate, and Amendment 2, and they are identical, completely identical, and if now this one, the first proposal, is voted in by the Riigikogu and voted out by the Riigikogu, what then?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U280	Thank you. I understand the question. But I don't think that's the way to go, and that's not the way to get it. I think Henn Põlluaas actually helped us here, and that's what Peter Ernits opened. Like I said, we're coming back to it. People are now working through this absurd situation. We realize that one result is a plus and the other is a minus. Depends on what came last. That's right. But now we really are on Amendment 92. Good fellows! I'll take the manager's break two minutes. Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U281	Dear colleagues, now the chairman's break is over. I shall put to the vote the 92nd amendment tabled by Mr Suslov and Mr Järveoja. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U282	With the result of 16, against 37, the proposal was not supported. Let us move on to the next amendment. I assume I'm asking for cooperation here from Mart's Gridship. Amendment 93, tabled by Mr Suslov and Mr Kannimäe, the position of the commission is to disregard this. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U283	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, please vote on this amendment...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U284	Got it. Let's get to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U285	... and before that, I'll take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U286	Now that's a new approach. Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U287	Good fellows, the recess requested by the Reform Party has ended. Once again, we have come closer to a free microphone, which was previously a human concern. We are at number 93, Timo Suslov, Sulev Kannimäe, the position of the commission is not taken into account. And I ask the members of the Riigikogu, if I put it to the vote, I ask you, please: please take a position and vote. And then there's the hammer kick. Before that, there's a procedural question, Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U288	Good manager! If we look now, we come closer, 700 amendments, and we take the same, fortunately, Timo Suslov has been signed here, not Suslov and Kannimäe. But there's no explanation. And when I read this yellow book, it is clear in Estonian: "The author of the amendment adds an explanation explaining the purpose and content of the proposed proposal. " But there's no one, there's no one, there's no one, there's no one. We are talking about amendment number 93. If you look forward now, now comes my colleague Eenmaa, fortunately he has stated that his first name is Ivi, the whole series. And here's... I'm not going to count these numbers and 95, 96, 97, 98, 99 and more are like this, no explanatory notes. Well, for example, it's not the 99th, it's not the 96th, but then some people do. I will read what Mr Eenmaa says. "The amount of child benefit shall be changed. " But when you read this yellow book, it is clear that you need to talk about the content and purpose of the matter. And this is how it goes with the so-called 'good' Reform Party colleagues' suggestions for improvement, the line of broken brides continues to go on forever. Do you think, Mr President, that such suggestions for improvement are worth admitting that some are even correct, which I have discovered, but these parade of broken brides... must vote or should somehow...? In the meantime, you said that when Mr Stalnukhin and someone who wanted to talk about a free microphone here in ten minutes, it should be very correct that it was not meant to be. But if we look the other way on these improvements, we know we don't, Helme, that we know who Helme is or who this Chef is, then Rene or Aivar, that we're creative here, but if a free microphone was asked for at ten-minute intervals, it's not allowed. How should you behave in a purely technical and procedural manner?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U289	First of all, I say thank you, Mr. Ernits. You guys are observant, quite frankly right now. Well, I think it is generally good that there is an explanation for the amendment. About that yellow book, we're walking like cats around hot porridge. Now, page 308 of the yellow book, paragraph 102, the list of amendments number 2 says that, as a result of the paragraph to be commented on, the list of amendments contains not only the wording of the amendment, but also the wording of the amendment, but also the wording here in Suslov and Kannimäe is well-established and in the name of the author, it also exists, Timo Suslov, Sulev Kannimäe, as well as the decision of the commission on the proposal. There is a 'Commission for the Administration: to be disregarded' below. Well, from here on out... Here it is said that the forms of decisions taken by the commission are "disregarded" or "totally taken into account," "partly taken into account" and "considered in substance," it still expands here, it is written down here, with the upper number 296. I think that we have voted in advance here on amendments that do not have that explanation. You brought out Ivi Eenmaa. Certainly a great experience in man, put it to an explanation, and the next one is there. That's what I'd say. Or I wouldn't answer it, I'll answer it. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U290	Thank you. Mr President, when you praised Mr Ernitsa here, I must now congratulate you on the fact that you were able to find three identical drafts in the operation of the Mart Võrguship. So I assume, however, that the drafts that are here are important documents because they are the basis for us to adopt the law and amend it. However, the Penal Code states that if there is fraud, which is clearly established in this case, then the Penal Code also provides for sanctions to be imposed by the person who committed the fraud. And what makes it harder is that the behaviour of my colleague, Mart Võrk, is actually a moment of intent. We cannot talk here about "random error," we have intent, intent to deceive the Riigikogu, intent to deceive the Commission. And I do not see at all the possibility that we are going forward here today in the light of this deception, but that track must be completed here, that these things must be sent back to the Commission and that the Commission must carry out a thorough inventory and exclude all those drafts that contain signs of fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U291	Thank you! First of all, my point. I appreciate the credit, but it was Peter Ernits who brought me to my attention, it was 844, 851, 854. This question, can we vote on these amendments, which Mr Metsoja actually asked in advance, so what then? I am absolutely convinced that we cannot go to these amendments until I have given you an answer, which then, with identical amendments, I promised, I will. True, these amendments come now, I would say, at a very high speed, reach us, we are already at 93, some more, and there are already 844. But before we get there, we will definitely work out a solution to how to move from here, but I do not think that we need to vote on three identical proposals three times. Yeah, that's the way it is. Mart Networker, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U292	Thank you, Mr President. Since so much is being said about my amendments here, Mr Grünthal accuses me of cheating on the Riigikogu and the Commission, I say that I certainly have not deceived the Riigikogu or the Commission in any way. I don't know how we're gonna get out of here now. Since I mentioned that the Commission failed to defend these amendments and that the chairman of the committee was not interested in it, rolled over, gave no word, interrupted, it might also have turned out that, in fact, the idea behind this was quite different. I don't know how we go from here to here, manager. Can I present these amendments here now to overcome this problem, or really what are the chances of continuing this debate in the Commission? On behalf of the Reform Party, we have repeatedly pointed out that the debate in the Commission has unfortunately not been held, it is against the Rules of Procedure, and now these problems are in this Chamber. Or maybe the committee chairman can answer what these solutions are? How do we proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U293	Thank you. Well, let's move on to the vote on this 93rd amendment. I say, too, and I will really tell Peter Ernits here once again that we cannot go to at least this 844, 851-854 until we are clear here. There is now an important discussion between officials, as far as I know, in order to find a solution here, a good solution. You are asking if these proposals could be presented in the Chamber. I think you were already in the coalition negotiations when we discussed this. It has been a practice that proposals are not presented in this Chamber, it has been such a practice. However, I honestly say that this can be done in principle. And once again, I get to the free microphone. If we process this point now, there are six more points left and then there will be a free microphone. But true, it's today, Monday, and there you can basically talk about these issues as well. In a free microphone, I really do say so much, you have to consider that there can't be an extra three minutes, there's only five minutes. So these are the odds of my mind right now. Thank you. And now we are at the 93rd amendment, tabled by Mr Suslov and Mr Kannimäe. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Dear colleagues, please take a stand and vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U294	With the result of 10 votes to 32, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 94 has been tabled by Mr Eenmaa; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Mart Võrguship, yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U295	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U296	Let's start the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U297	And before the vote, I also ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U298	Good fellows, the recess requested by the Reform Party has ended. I shall put to the vote the 94th amendment tabled by Mr Eenmaa. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U299	With the result of 6, against 31, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 95, tabled by Mr Eenmaa, position of the commission: disregard. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U300	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and, before the vote, to take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U301	Are you taking it or not? You said "take." In Estonian, the conditional word means... I'm gonna ask you, "Are you gonna take it or not?" I didn't get it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U302	Yeah, I'm so sorry. I'll take a ten-minute break. In the meantime, the picture is clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U303	Okay, now we're clear. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U304	Dear colleagues, we are at the 95th amendment, tabled by Ivi Eenmaa, and the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Mikhail Lotman, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U305	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The Estonian language is not my native language, I have learned it from such old-fashioned teachers, and I have been taught that the reason for speaking in Estonian may be a form of courtesy. And, "I'll take it," it's more appropriate than "I'll take it." Because if I do, it's constitutive, and I don't care if you give or not. I'll take an hour's break and adieu in amigo. But for God's sake, that means please give it to me. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U306	Thank you. I've been taught differently again that if it is, there are two options: either you take it or you don't. I've been taught that way. But we got the whole thing sorted out by Mart's Gridship. He was beautifully specific, so I fully understood that he wanted to take this break and he took it and this break also became part of the Reform Party. We had ten minutes to reflect on Amendment 95, and now we can express our clear view of what we think of it after the hammer hit. Peter Ernits, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U307	Good manager! Yeah, we're going at a nice pace towards midnight. But if I look at what's ahead of us, over 100 we're gonna make it, these crippled brides are here more than not crippled. I mean up to 120 that only amendments 104 and 119 have a sentence as an explanation, well that we are simply increasing these child benefits, but what the yellow book says is that what's in this amendment, it doesn't smell anything, but the rest have nothing. And here comes my colleague Kivijäe's solo, where he will change partners with every proposal for improvement. But in the case of all, they are subject to him, only in the case of my colleague Järveoja 104, he is not subject to him and he has asked for one small explanation, including that we are increasing child support. That we have discussed these procedural issues here, but now is the right time to try to fix the future of these amendments, what they should look like, can we just sign the Ratas or Ernits or Suslov? Or should there be something added as an explanation? By the way, Mr Jaanson, and when he wished to put the question of Russia's accession to the referendum a year ago and Ants Laaneots, there I looked, there was no explanation at the time. In order to determine, as it were, how these amendments should be tabled, that the yellow paper is relatively such, it is not very precise and specific that it could be useful for everyone, for any draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U308	Thank you. First of all, that's your problem. Your concern with the author of the amendments. Well, you yourself brought out 104, this is Toomas Kivimägi and Toomas Järveoja, who found a common language, that it was not the case that one stayed on top or the other stayed on top. They're all together in 104. Now this yellow book, the executive edition, if I'm not mistaken, it's issued in 2012, 10 years ago. Ten years of experience, knowledge. Well, I think we could seriously think about whether we could now make a new and improved, executive publication. Well, maybe it's the work and the doing of the next composition. If you ask what must be in this amendment? It is stated in paragraph 102 of the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, which states as follows: "The steering committee shall draw up a list of amendments submitted to the draft for a second reading containing the wording of the amendment in the order of the provisions of the draft, the name of the author and the decision of the commission. " So it says here. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U309	Thank you. Absolutely, I have a procedural question. Here, in the meantime, such a debate has arisen as to whether "take" or "take" or "take." Mr Lotman drew attention here, too, to the coercive way of speaking. But I am guided only by the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, § 83 (2) says a completely different formulation and that, before voting, the vice-chairman or the chairman of the political group may require a break of up to ten minutes. So we can take it somewhere nice at the restaurant table, but here we insist.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U310	Thank you. You can really insist, but I understand that if the chairman or vice-chairman of a group, for example, says that I'm taking a break here, well I understand that this is the same idea. Now, Amendment 95 has been tabled by Mr Eenmaa, the position of the commission is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U311	In favour of 3, against 32, couldn't find any support. Amendment 96, tabled by Mr Eenmaa, the position of the commission is to disregard this. Amendment 96, I repeat, tabled by Mr Eenmaa, the position of the commission is to disregard this. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U312	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on, and I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U313	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U314	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the Reform Party has ended. We are on the 96th amendment tabled by Mr Eenmaa, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U315	By 2, against 30, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 97 has been tabled by Mr Eenmaa; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Mart Võrguship!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U316	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment and also to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U317	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the Reform Party has ended. I shall put to the vote the 97th amendment tabled by Mr Eenmaa. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U318	By 2, against 30, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. And the 98th amendment is tabled by Mr Eenmaa; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Mart Networker, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U319	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the Reform Party, I would like to ask for a vote on this amendment, and I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U320	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U321	Good fellows! The recess requested by the Reform Party has ended. Let's go from here to here. Amendment 98, I shall put it to the vote, it has been tabled by Mr Eenmaa, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U322	With convincing results 1 in favour, 31 against and no abstentions, this proposal was not supported. 99th amendment tabled by Mr Eenmaa, the position of the commission is not taken into account. All right, Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U323	Thank you. On behalf of the Centre Party, I would like to ask for a vote, a proposal, and before the vote, a break of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U324	Thank you. Mart Võrguship, do you have a wish?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U325	I give up the speech. I understand we've got some kind of new coalition going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U326	Yeah, that's interesting. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U327	Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked to have put the 99th amendment to the vote, but Mr Pohlak has had a question in the meantime. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U328	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, an absolutely procedural question about Parliament's procedures. I am simply asking that, if Mr Networking would like him to leave his next statements of vote in writing to you on this table and be able to go home on his own. There are no more reform parties but you and Mr. Networker in the hall. The previous vote received exactly one vote in favour of the reform proposal. I am simply asking purely technical questions whether he could leave a written request that we want to vote and that we want to take a break and go home ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U329	Thank you. The answer is no. Mr. Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U330	Thank you, Mr President. I also have a procedural question. This last break was taken by Jaanus Karilaud and the middle fraction. As President, did you also sense that the last ten minutes of the debate on how to act now, could it be different from the previous one when the Reform Party took these breaks, or do you think it is not procedurally different?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U331	Thank you. It wasn't a procedural question. [[Voice in the hall.]] Okay. Let's get to the vote. I hope you don't have to ring the bell again. I shall put the 99th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U332	With the result of the 2nd, against 29th, the proposal was not supported. All right. There is a small break point, Amendment 100 is coming, we have reached three-digit numbers. It is presented by Jüri Jaanson and Erki Keldo. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U333	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on. And I'm gonna ask you for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U334	It's settled. Ten minutes break, proceed 23.18.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U335	Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to vote. I shall put the 100th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U336	Yes, Mr. Pevkur! I think that, before this vote, it would be like remembering Arvo Junt, who initiated a deliberate hindrance to work or to prank by his name.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U337	It wasn't a procedural question. I shall put the 100th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U338	For two, against 29. The proposal was not supported. Now Amendment 101, tabled by Mr Jaanson and Mr Sutrop. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U339	President of the sitting! On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on, and I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U340	Okay, I got it. Ten minutes break. Let's continue at 11:30.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U341	Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 101: I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U342	By 2, against 30. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 102, tabled by Toomas Kivimägi and Annely Akkermann. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U343	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for a vote on this amendment, and before that, I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U344	Before we go to recess, Peter Ernitsa has a wish to clarify something. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U345	Good manager! I have such a procedural question. We are approaching the next ten minutes, and we have already wasted 16.6 hours with 100 amendments. My question to you is, has this waste of time made sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U346	Thanks for asking. This is not a procedural question. But if you want to continue to calculate, then the average rate has now been about five proposals per hour. Okay. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U347	Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 102: Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U348	In favour of 2, against 26, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 103, tabled by Toomas Kivimägi and Ivi Eenmaa. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U349	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the Reform Party, I would like to ask for a vote on this amendment, and I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U350	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U351	Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the vote on Amendment 103. I shall put the 103rd amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-13_U352	In favour of 2, against 27, the proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now the case that we have five minutes and 52 seconds until the end of the sitting. Given that there is a feeling that there is a risk of a ten-minute break being taken, the President will eliminate it by taking the chairman's break and ending the sitting. Have a good night. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
