ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 6th working week Tuesday session of the VII plenary session. And now it's possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. The Anti Semi-Authority has first expressed its wish. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! We have forwarded the following draft to the sitting department: the law amending the Civil Status Act. The draft law amending the Law on Civil Status Procedures complements the procedure for registering the child's data and fills the legal gap in cases where the child is born at home or on the way to the health care provider. In such cases, according to the bill, the family doctor will issue the relevant certificate so that the child can be registered according to all due diligence. The draft is essential in order to put an end to the situation in which children born at home cannot be registered, except through court. You don't need a juniper like that for parents. If they remain in that grey zone, they will not be able to use the child's name or child benefit. This situation should be brought to an end. The family doctor is the person who knows the people on his list best and can take additional evidence if necessary. The current situation is that if a parent has even been registered and examined in a hospital, he still cannot register a child without a court of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U3	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of the month, news came that the Environmental Board has approached the Ministry of the Environment to turn additional Natura restricted zones into a target protection zone without discussing it with landowners. Indeed, the intelligent use of natural resources is certainly very important in our economy, but also in nature conservation. At the same time, it cannot be forgotten that we have a constitution, and there is such a paragraph in the Constitution as § 32, which says that if certain restrictions are imposed on private property, they must also be compensated. At the same time, the Environmental Board has failed to carry out a number of activities, has given itself an opinion and will implement this opinion. As a result, an inquiry has been made by the members of the three political groups of the Riigikogu to the Minister for the Environment concerning the conversion of the Natura restriction zone into a destination protection zone and five questions have been asked. What is worst in this case is that, with this step, the state has signalled to forest owners that if they do not want their forest land to be essentially nationalised, they must not allow any significant natural value on their land. That's a very bad signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U5	I don't see any more calls. I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. The Management Board shall decide how they are to be dealt with in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now we're conducting a presence check, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U6	77 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U7	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I ask for a chair of the Vice-Chairman of the Finance Committee, Aivar Koka. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U8	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The discussion in preparation for the first reading of the draft appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 14 February. The draft provides for the appointment of Ivi Proos as a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The submission of the bill is due to the fact that the mandate of Kaie Kerem, an expert member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, expired earlier. On 18 January this year, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank proposed to the Monetary Commission that Ivi Proos be appointed a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Ivi Proos has provided written confirmation that he meets the requirements laid down in the Eesti Pank Act for a member of the Supervisory Board and has agreed to be appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board. Ivi Proos has also successfully passed a security check. Background: The Board of Eesti Pank is the supervisory body of Eesti Pank and it consists of the chairman, representatives of the political groups of the Riigikogu and experts in the field. The formation of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is based on the principle that each political group of the Riigikogu presents one of its members and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board presents four experts in the field. Pursuant to Article 8 (1) of the Eesti Pank Act, the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank are appointed by the Riigikogu on a proposal from the Monetary Commission. Pursuant to Article 8 (7) of the Eesti Pank Act, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank submits to the Monetary Committee of the Riigikogu, four months after the need to appoint an alternate member, the name of the qualified member of the Supervisory Board with his written consent and written confirmation that he meets the requirements laid down in the Eesti Pank Act for a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the proposal of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank at its meeting on 7 February and decided to submit a corresponding draft to the Riigikogu's proceedings. The draft will be submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings on 8 February. According to § 117 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, no amendments are submitted to this draft. Pursuant to § 117 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, this draft decision is discussed at a single reading. A majority of the votes cast shall be required for the adoption of the draft. The decision is intended to enter into force as a general rule. According to § 1121 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Act, the decision will enter into force by signing, unless the decision itself sets a second deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U9	Members of the Riigikogu can ask one question. I don't see that wish. Thank you! As you have heard, no amendments could be tabled to the draft, and the proposal of the commission is a final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the final vote, you have all come nicely to the Chamber, do the political groups have a wish for negotiation? You don't see that wish. Then we can also close the negotiations and go to the final vote. I therefore vote on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the Bank of Estonia, submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, no 528. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U10	The proposal is supported by 61 members of the Riigikogu, against 13. The proposal has been adopted, the draft decision has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U11	We will go to the second item on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the Road Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 490. There is a second reading and I would like to ask for a chair of the member of the Economic Commission, Riho Breiveli. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U12	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the law on road transport is actually necessary in order for us to be in a unified European Union system under the same conditions as all the other Member States that have acceded to this directive. This means that we do not make life harder for our carmakers in the great [plan], but rather we harmonize these standards. That's what this law amendment is for. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 22 November and the first reading took place on 12 January. The deadline for amendments was 26 January. Two amendments were received from the Isamaa Group. All the organisations involved, such as the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers, the Association of Car Companies, the Estonian Logistics and Freight Forwarding Association, the Transport Trade Union, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Agricultural Chamber of Commerce and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, were informed about the proceedings. The Association of Car Companies, the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers, the Estonian Logistics and Freight Forwarding Association and the University of Tallinn [Tehnika] addressed the Commission jointly with their opinion. There were also a number of proposals, which practically consisted of four amendments. We also examined these proposals in the relevant working group and found that many of them were in line with the proposals of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. This led to four amendments being formulated. In fact, the Fatherland Alliance made two proposals, one of which we considered in substance, but the other was rejected. With this second proposal, which concerns the weighing of car loads and the weighting of weight, we have also had a number of problems in the working group. Then came the suggestion that we would invite the specialists in the area, who also tabled this amendment together with the Group of the Pro Patria Union, and we listened to them in the committee. Specialists from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were present as the initiator of this draft. The Commission heard the speech of the representative of the joint returnees, who commented on the proposals submitted to the Commission, which were partly in line with the proposal received from the Group of the Patriotic Union. This concerned the responsibility of the shipper for the corresponding weight. The Commission examined the draft list of amendments, disregarded the proposals made by one of the Group of the Patriotic Alliance and took the other into account in substance. The Commission also accepted the wording of the proposals set out in the opinion received by the initiator and amended the procedure and proposed all four amendments to the draft as the lead committee. Procedural decisions were taken on the draft at the meeting of the Commission. In practical terms, the first, third, fifth and sixth proposals were found to be consensual in the Commission. The second proposal put forward by the Group of the Patriotic Alliance was not supported by the Commission. In favour of this were 2 members of the Commission, Sester, and I, I, and 7 were [against]. This [proposal] concerned mass weight. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications proposed a compromise on the calculation of this mass weight. It was introduced as an additional proposal, which we were actually in favour of, but since the proposal made by the Isamaa Group was not confirmed, in the final vote, the Member of the Commission, Sester, withdrew himself from the voting process. Finally, the procedural decisions and proposals of the commission were such as to bring the draft to the plenary of the Riigikogu today and to conclude the second reading. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading and to hold a final vote on 9 March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U13	Okay. Before we go to the questions, Mr. Sester has a procedural question. What's up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U14	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to be more specific. Very respected Riho Breivel is always talking about the Fatherland Union. I wanted to ask you about what he's talking about as the chairman of the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U15	I'm sorry! Yeah...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U16	Since we have not turned to the EKRE under the name of the People's Union, it is. Who are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U17	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry! I'm still talking about you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U18	And that could have been asked even in the format of a perfectly normal question, because the question was addressed not to me but to the waitress. It is very difficult for me to see the waitress as the chair of the sitting. Perhaps he really meant the Fatherland Union, not the Fatherland, but he could have answered that [question] himself. Next time on such a matter...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U19	I apologise to the Fatherland Union for calling the Fatherland Group. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U20	So now the Fatherland League has also received an apology, I think the Group of the Fatherland accepts that the Fatherland League has been excused. Okay. Let's get to the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U21	Good manager! Dear waitress, The first question is such a small but important one. We process the amendment of the Road Transport Act and the related amendment of other laws, and I read that everything is linguistic, has been processed and so on, but the explanatory memorandum begins: "The draft amendment of the Construction Code Act initiated..."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U22	I also have to say linguistically that it is simply the finger of the person who prepared the corresponding document. It's still "the law of carriage."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U23	Mr. Sester, here's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I have a question about this amendment, which concerns the subject of gross mass, which we discussed in the Commission as well. Rather, the faction of the Fatherland provided that no other possible unit of measurement would be used, that the gross mass [that] would rather be the unit of measurement. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, rather, held a different opinion, although the fact that the gross mass should be basic, is that if the gross mass cannot be reached in any way, there should be another unit of measure. My question is that the companies and organisations at the table also stated that it is always possible to determine this gross mass. What understanding of the Commission's work did you have? Do you share the opinion that the Fatherland brought on the table, or do you take the view that there are certain conditions in which the gross mass cannot actually be determined?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U25	Yes, honourable questioner, it is indeed the same as the result of the vote shows that you and I were in favour of this amendment. In fact, having also studied all these materials and the proposers, I, too, have the view that it is actually possible to solve the problem of gross mass. If we put other indicators aside for this, it can only cause confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U26	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U27	Good manager! Good waitress! Now I'm getting a little bit more serious, although the construction code and names are also important. Siim Kallas has asked why rules are established that are harmful to Estonia. We are talking about this directive that we are currently dealing with. After all, this is clearly a discriminatory directive for Estonia and Eastern Europe and for many smaller countries, and we are trying to adopt it by four. Why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U28	This issue was not discussed at second reading, but we discussed it at first reading, and then it was concluded that it would worsen the condition of our carriers if we did not make these changes now. Interested organisations were also in favour of introducing these legislative changes. As far as the damage is concerned, this concerns the fact that when using cars, they must come back to the Republic of Estonia at a certain time. Or not just to Estonia, but to the place of laying, and that means that empty journeys may occur and that is, of course, unacceptable, and that is why several countries have sued this problem and now we are waiting for a court settlement. Of course, my point of view is that this is a problem. We also, at first reading, drew the Minister's attention to the need for [write] a letter and, once again, to turn and contact other countries that have applied to the Court. That's what the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications does.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U29	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U30	Thank you. My question came from your answer. If, at present, a number of countries have brought an important point of this law to court and the litigation is still ongoing and we do not have a response, why has the Committee on Economic Affairs moved forward with this draft? If, for example, the judgment comes that a car does not have to drive so often to the country where it is registered, will the bill come back to the Riigikogu and be discussed again?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U31	This is because it does not come back to the Riigikogu because we do not currently have this point on the issue of return. That's not what we're dealing with in this bill. We talked about it for a long time. There are views that it should not be adopted at all. I, too, at the beginning, was of the opinion that we were not taking over this directive at all. But the question is that the drivers themselves are also in favour of taking over, otherwise we will be in a worse position today or tomorrow. [Worse situation] are those carriers and drivers who drive around Europe's roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U32	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Here's the question. On the one hand, there is legislation and legislator who makes the law, on the other hand there is practice, i.e. different companies and organisations that work in this market and follow the law. All these different organisations were represented behind the table. I note that the various amendments, to a greater or lesser extent, were accepted by the MKM and made certain adjustments, certain clarifications. How does it seem to you as a leading manager that it now more or less responds to this idea and action, how organisations, those in the market, have seen this market to work, would it be correct, and the responsibility would be properly shared and so on? How is this your approach right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U34	Well, if you go through this line of proposals, which also exist in the form of a table, we will see from there that, in fact, most of them have been incorporated into these amendments. While the working groups also had discussions with carriers' organisations, they were largely satisfied with the draft decision. Only with regard to gross weight is the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U35	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U36	Good manager! Honourable Riho! I look at the amendments and § 1 (2): for the international carriage of goods by road or a combination of vehicles with a maximum authorised mass exceeding two and a half tonnes and a maximum design speed exceeding 40 kilometres per hour, a licence is required and everything else. Can you give an example of which road train is less than 2,500 kilograms?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U37	At the moment, you will not be able to provide [example], and we did not discuss this problem of the length of combinations of vehicles in the Commission either. I'm sure there are, or maybe there are, but I don't know how to show you any of these trains right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U38	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U39	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not a reca driver, but I've been following behind this bill and meeting people who've been working on this for decades every day. On the one hand, this is all great, but on the other hand, there is a very fundamental question behind it. The fundamental question is whether we can take a sovereign stand for the interests of our country and of our entrepreneurs. It actually started a lot earlier. The current French President, Macron, who was not yet president at the time, adopted [a law], which is now being described as Loi Macron, the Macron Act. I'm not going to talk any further, it contains very different things, but a brief summary of this was that migrant workers are being excluded from their country. [The purpose was] to give the French advantages, including to French truckers and their companies. There were many conditions. At present, all the managers of [transport companies], wherever [these companies are] from, including Estonia, must pay their managers at least 10 euros and 24 cents per hour. And if he gets caught, there's a EUR 2,000 fine, and if there's a second time [between], there's 4,000 and the company's [fine] half a million. But this is one measure of how strangers, in this case reca drivers and companies, can be expelled from the French market. Above all, it is Eastern Europe, where we, whether we want or not, belong. And in this respect, honor the French for creating such conditions! For example, after the adoption of this law, these papers are, of course, in French, such as the French [still]. Properly acting, French is the most important language, but others may find it less easy to understand. But that was one important moment. Later this directive was adopted, the number of which I am not going to name, everyone sees it here. Now the big European countries have put their backs together, France, Germany and so on. Same idea again. And this directive was adopted, on which Siim Kallas regretted that Siimu is not here at the moment, who knows the corridors of Europe and Brussels better than any of us, has asked the Commission several times during the debate on how the directive against which the countries are against went. Or the second question: why introduce rules that are harmful to Estonia? In the Committee on Economic Affairs, Taavi Aas answered Siimu's first question as to why the directive against which the countries have gone: because the big countries are pressing to push the Eastern Europeans out of their markets. Minister of Economy, Taavi Aas. That's the deeper bottom of this thing. Yes, these suggestions for improvement from the Fatherland, not the Fatherland League, are details. But the basic story that I considered necessary to remind my colleagues is that the main thing is that there has been a trial. The countries of Eastern Europe, including Estonia, and the small Malta, also [have gone to court], because it is clearly harmful to us who are on the margins of the European Union. Drive [must] long, much longer lands. Indeed, in the wind of this green turn there is one such slick argument. We've got about 9,000 hits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U40	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U41	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U42	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U43	About 9,000 recs roving around the vastness of the European Union. And now that these 9,000 cars have to bring home empty every two months, it's not school bullying, it's Euro bullying. The large European countries have put their backs together and adopted the directive that Siim Kallas asked about. Small countries, especially mobile, active, good Eastern European countries, as well as Malta, are being bullied, and I would like to draw attention. They [will] be pushed out, of course by legal means. Our current little hope is that the green turn will be asked, and we have asked that if 9,000 cars must be sent back to Estonia empty, be it from France, Spain or somewhere [from others], then [from France] 9,000 trips empty, for example, from France to Tallinn. But also the return [to come] will be empty. 18,000 trips. What's the carbon footprint? That is a legitimate question, and the context is good, but I am not sure how this argument is understood by the Court of Justice. But, in itself, yes, as good colleague Riho said here, there is nothing else we can do for the big ones. But it seems to me that you should think about how many little ones there are. Maybe it's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U44	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not fall into a deep broad philosophy, would rather be in this intermediate period of first and second reading and would highlight some of the observations of the Fatherland, which were also highlighted as amendments, and for a moment analyze them. We had two amendments and one of them was related to what was also sounded in this Chamber today: these different lists of documents that must accompany when transported from point A to point B, and the different characteristics that must be contained in these documents, from the name of the consignor to the loading and unloading points. One of the items which must appear on the load sheets shall be the gross mass of the load. In this earlier wording, which came from the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu, it was stated that [must be written] the gross mass of the load or some other unit of measure. Our proposal was to take away this other unit of measure. The reasoning is very clear. In fact, if there is any kind of cargo being carried out, this unfortunate driver is about to be able to determine that he has, I don't know, a certain number of cubic metres of wood or logs on the car, but he is not actually able to define [gross mass]. However, the specific gross mass can only be determined by the consignor himself. This was also the reason why we stated that the existence of a gross mass is necessary and should in any case be defined. If any other unit of measurement is to be added, please, but the gross mass would really be necessary, as the consignor of the load should be responsible for this. Interestingly, when you look at the various statistics, which are the first ones, the first is, in fact, the crossing of the axle load, which shows that the gross mass has been wrongly estimated and that it has been fined. And in general, the fine goes to that unfortunate driver. What we have achieved in negotiations with the Ministry is indeed that this wording has been clarified. It was stated that the gross mass was primary, and such clarification was introduced that if it is not possible to define this gross mass in any way, it would be possible to measure it with another unit of measurement. The presence of gross mass is still extremely primary. There's no way that I just want it for some reason with some other unit of measurement. This amendment was eventually written as such in the wording of the Ministry. The second amendment made by the Fatherland, which we think is also important, and what market participants [have] mentioned, is always those practitioners who are active in the market and see where the problems are and what the problem is, is that the driver's personal identification number also exists in electronic transport documents. This is not the case at the moment, but it gives greater transparency to the entire documentation and provides an opportunity for further cross-use of [data]. Here it must also be said positively that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications agreed to our proposal. While this specific proposal was considered to be essentially taken into account and made certain drafting changes, it is ultimately reflected in one of the Ministry's amendments or, more specifically, in the Economic Commission's own amendments. To sum up... A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U46	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U47	To sum up, it was good to see that this draft was completed over a long period of time, or if it was not completed, at least at Parliament's level was worked out with those directly concerned, and at our last meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the various umbrella organisations were indeed represented. As Riho Breivel mentioned earlier here, it seems to me that we have now become much more precise and perhaps somewhat better than what originally came from the government. Perhaps I would have liked to have made further adjustments, but in the end, the draft has also become more sensible and fairer for the day-to-day operation. So our group supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U48	Mr. Breivel, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U49	I have a little procedure. Would you ask the performer whether he meant the Fatherland Union or any other faction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U50	No, it's not procedural. Okay, closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Gentlemen, if you can also pay attention to the amendments, it would be nice. The first amendment, tabled by the lead committee, was fully taken into account. The second amendment, tabled by the Isamaa Group, has been rejected by the commission. The third amendment, in favour of the commission, has been fully taken into account. The fourth amendment, from the Isamaa Group, has taken into account the substance of the commission. Amendment 5, tabled by the lead committee and fully taken into account. The sixth amendment, tabled by the lead committee, has been taken fully into account. With this, we have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft and that concludes the second reading of the draft 490.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U51	The third item on the agenda today is the first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Isamaa Group. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Koka.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U52	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft submitted by the Fatherland aims to reduce VAT on gas, electricity and heat to 9% and thereby reduce the impact of the surge in gas, electricity and heat on Estonian consumers and businesses. Gigantic increases in the price of gas, electricity and heat have significantly increased the revenue from VAT and, consequently, the revenue from the State. At the same time, the country's revenue is projected to increase 2.5 times as a result of the high price of the quota of CO2 used in the emissions trade and the increase in the purchase volume of the allowances in electricity production. It is unfair to punish consumers and our business twice: first with price increases and then with a higher tax burden [compared to] gross domestic product. The leap in energy prices due to the policy decisions of the green turn and market distortions is the most serious problem for our business and consumers in the near future. In order to alleviate this problem, the Fatherland offers a reduction in VAT on gas, electricity and heat from 20% to 9% this year. The costs of gas, electricity and heat are mostly compulsory costs, for which there are no alternatives. The cold winter will further increase these compulsory costs. The Fatherland Party submitted this draft to the Riigikogu on 7 December. Unfortunately, two months later, we are only discussing this in this Chamber. The idea of reducing VAT has been strongly supported by the Centre Party, and that is what the chairman of the party has said. The same message has been supported by the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party and the EKRE Group. I hope that the Riigikogu will also support this in order to alleviate the economic situation of our people today. We know that the price of gas has already risen seven times today and that the price of electricity compared to what was four or five or six months ago has risen many times. This would ease the growth in the cost of home for all of our people. And, as we know, when businesses are able to recover VAT, private consumers do not have this possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U53	Thank you for this presentation. It is now possible to ask the members of the Riigikogu. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, But really, there are no questions. As the representative of the commission, Jürgen Ligi will come and tell us about this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 15 February. And... I'm sorry, now I'm in a bit of trouble! [[Browse papers.]] ... decided to propose not to finish the first reading. I've got a little protocol problem here. I'm sorry! But first, I will pass on this substantive debate. The rapporteur spoke enthusiastically here about the punishment of consumers and about the greening. The Committee on Finance did not feel that way. Still, the grass has been embraced in civilised countries. However, this is not the reason for recent price increases, but the reason for these increases is a security policy. Energy prices are artificially manipulated on the one hand. On the basis of today's events in Ukraine, it must also be illustrated that the gas deficit created by the Kremlin is what has also caused the high price of other energy carriers. Of course, there are even deeper reasons behind this, such as the Koronian economic recovery, the very high liquidity in the economy, the monetary printing of central banks. In Estonia, inflation is accompanied by budget deficits and the introduction of the pension pillar. All these factors are common denominators for the phenomenon of inflation. At the same time, energy carriers do indeed play a role in inflation, which has now accelerated by more than half. But if you look at the price of energy carriers in the general consumption basket, it is not a disaster, a universal disaster that should cause indiscriminate compensatory measures. The general problem, which has been explained a great deal in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in this draft, is that the deletion of such price components is socially distributed into final prices, but which is denied there, also environmentally and economically unreasonable. This means that those who are able to pay more for energy will also receive a greater share of this benefit. A very small part of the support reaches those in real need. That is why, on social grounds, the Fatherland has been critical of introducing such tax incentives over time. This encouragement can still only be done at the expense of the state budget, but the purpose of the state budget is to raise money, to collect taxes in order to finance common things and not to support private accounts. A common issue is definitely social policy, but not social policy of this kind, which gives more money where it already has more. So, what's there to deny, to people like us, to people better off. This is a very low efficiency measure. That is why the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as well as the Fatherland Party, have been critical of such measures all along the way. So much as a background for why such a vote was finally formed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It is, of course, highly controversial when, on the one hand, we impose excise duties on energy prices and they are in force, but, on the other hand, we would go to alleviate some other tax that is essentially neutral. VAT is essentially a neutral tax, generally uniform for all goods. Again, it doesn't make any sense. These are the main reasons why the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposes to reject this draft. Of course, we did not get any knowledge from the authors of what this measure would cost, where this money would go and what we would give up in the state budget if we took such a step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U55	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I heard a great deal about the reform party and also the waitress wanting great social equality, and little about what was in the Commission's debate. That's my question. Has the Reform Party now put bread with the Centre Party in a cabinet for progressive income tax? After all, this has always been very important from the perspective of the Centre Party in order to achieve social equality. It is just such an intermediate stage now that we have also taken this step before next year's elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U57	Thank you. I suggest you listen less to what you hear there. Instead, listen to what's coming from here. I am here representing the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the discussions and criticisms that have repeatedly taken place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I didn't talk about income tax here, I didn't speak for the Reform Party either. I explained to you why the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided [to make a proposal] not to complete the first reading of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U58	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U59	Good manager! Honourable Jürgen! The simple question is, have you read this bill once before you went to report it? You're going to make the claims [not known] that are actually written in this bill. It is very clear what the estimated cost is when [falls] to 9%. There's this line in the bill, you're saying it's not written anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U60	Thank you. I was at the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and I have held this draft in my hands. But those numbers didn't sound in the committee, at least they didn't get my ears. And I indicated that you wouldn't talk about it. Here, too, there was no real analysis of what the financial implications of this draft were. There was a big heart beating, how the state could help its people, but how could it do it effectively and what it costs, you didn't really talk about it. My quote, I think, was correct in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U61	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Was there a debate in the Commission in which [compared] with other countries? Indeed, we know that energy prices have risen not only in Estonia, but all over the world, and European countries have taken different steps here. And we also know that there are really taxes down. Was there a debate on this? And if so, what were the arguments why the solution proposed by the Fatherland Party did not fit?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U63	Thank you. This comparison was not presented to us in the Commission during the debate on this draft. But, of course, the Commission is aware that such popular tax reductions, which run counter to general tax and social policy, are also being made in other countries. However, we have agreed at the level of the government on a somewhat functional aid package. This is because, on the one hand, people are supported according to income and, on the other hand, certain price increases are mitigated, i.e. from a certain price. It's familiar to you, too, isn't it? And that is up to a certain amount of consumption, so that the biggest consumers and the most prosperous do not get infinitely. There has been a great deal of evil and blaming from people [who] can handle themselves very well during this price increase. It is the duty of the state to recall that it is not the state that holds the citizens, but the citizens that hold the state. And the philosophy has been that citizens still put together their taxes in order to do common things, and it is not common practice to consider it a very luxurious living and support for those who do not need support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U64	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Certainly, the tax system is also based on some ability to pay taxes. Indeed, today's problem surrounding energy carriers has come from a price shock. One of the reasons for this is certainly also the aggression and conduct of Russia that you mentioned. But did you discuss this in the Commission? I understand that this is the Committee on Monetary Affairs and this may not be the case, but we often deal with the past or some sort of momentary problem, although it is rather a question in the future. We'll move against the spring, then the summer will come, and then the autumn will start again, and then winter. Were there any scenarios under discussion? Unfortunately, we cannot bring about very rapid changes in our energy economy. It also seems to me that aggression and the security crisis are getting worse. What solutions could be found in the longer term? Did you address this side in the framework of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U66	Thank you. It can be said that there was certainly a reference to them as a reply, but this draft did not open a longer debate. In addition, perhaps it is a little inappropriate to stick to what was said or not mentioned in connection with the presentation of this draft, in the event of tonight's events or last night's events. It is clear that the masks have fallen now and we cannot, in the West, take such a universal price concern as is essential to deal with. The main thing is, of course, focused action to counter Russia's aggression. If, at the same time, we apologise for using this word, I should not be emotional when speaking on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but we did not have the opportunity to record all our emotions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, if we are moaning here about prices at a time when there is actually war and aggression, then we will certainly feed this aggression. In fact, a Europe that buys only one share of GDP, its own GDP, its own energy carrier from Russia, must take up this price and still use resources with very targeted measures both to counter aggression and to counter economic difficulties. Most of Europe does not really suffer from poverty and should not receive such universal support, especially not in proportion to consumption, because consumption is in proportion to prosperity. In this sense, this measure is well inappropriate. I understand that in September, this bill seemed nicer than it is now, not to me personally. But he's still very clearly controversial right now. Universal price control is not what we can ensure that we protect our security.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U67	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. First of all, I would like to ask Aivar Kokk on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U68	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U69	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U70	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Somehow more and more [mentality] have entered into force in this Riigikogu, so that you do not follow my words, but follow my actions. And sometimes it seems that some members of the Riigikogu think that only he is the world's belly button around which everyone moves. I remember that debate when there was a fall in excise duty. The fall was when the crisis began, the corona crisis. The next noise was when I handed over the proposal to keep the excise duty on fuels low in April last year for at least a year. In September, we also argued with some members of the Riigikogu at a conference, and the next day the government came to this hall with this bill that it is still necessary to postpone excise duties. We have talked for a long time that heating prices have risen and home costs have increased and network charges could be set at zero. At one point, the government came and made that decision very quickly. We are talking about today's draft, the introduction of [VAT] 9% of the gas, electricity and heat economy. On 6 November Jüri Ratas, President of the Centre Party, made it very clear that the state can support its population by reducing national taxes on gas, electricity and the heating economy. The same proposal has also been supported by the EKRE and today's Chairman of the Social Democratic Party. This bill has been handed over to this Chamber on 7 November, and if today's government were actually concerned about our people, this bill would have been processed already in December, and in January, the VAT on gas, electricity and heat would not be 20%, but 9%. The expenditure budget is estimated at 75 million. If you look at the measures that have been taken and their costs, this number is a relatively small number, but it is very important for our people. And it is not worth mentioning the members of the Riigikogu and their salaries and their heating bills, because it is really possible to pay for your heating costs with this salary. But we are talking about the elderly, we are talking about young families, we are talking about the ordinary Estonian person today. If you are used to your home expenses for heating and electricity being 150 euros, and you will have a bill of 600+ euros in December, 600+ in January, then... Most of our young people have set up a home with a bank loan, whether it be an apartment or a house. Almost everyone has had to lease a passenger car to work. They have taken into account [such] costs. Their children go to kindergarten and school, and they have taken their costs into account. Has anyone ever considered that their home expenses would increase more than once, twice, or three times, but more than four times? And then we're gonna take it easy to see that everything's okay. In my opinion, at this point in time, we should show solidarity with our people. If the value added tax (VAT) is not relevant to businesses for the simple reason that VAT can be deducted from expenditure and paid on income, private consumers do not have this possibility. I've been waiting for the government to come to this hall and offer solutions to take their homes to alternative heating, be it the installation of solar panels, be it ground heating or air heating. But no such alternative has come. It would be very easy to say that if you install solar panels, you will not have to pay VAT to the state to install them, so you will get 20% of the tax. There's a solution! Yeah, with a solar panel all year round, all the time you can't start, but today it could be that it would be normal for ordinary people to build up to 15 kilovolts of solar parks in their homes. It would be possible to solve this credit system, as EUR 12000 does not exist in every family's back pocket to install them. We don't see any solutions. And we are offering here today a solution that can prevent such an increase in the cost of our people's homes during this difficult period. That 11% is quite a lot of money when your bill is 600 euros. I'm confused, frankly, by the Centre Party. The Centre Party, whose president's clear message is that since November last year, they have spoken of being [in the face] towards the people and their proposal is to support the reduction in VAT, but in the Commission they voted against this proposal. I understand that the members of the party do not support their party chairman on this matter. There can be no other option here if the political group agrees differently, but the chairman of the political party, who is the leader of the political party in the government, has very clearly emphasised its [necessity] in social media and in his press releases. It always hurts me to hear a politician start talking about some sort of demagogue, how bad one, another, or a third fuel. This is in today's situation where prices have increased over and over again! However, the European Union says that natural gas and nuclear energy are green renewable energy. At the same time, we are supported by the voices of coalition politicians by the fact that wood heating will become more expensive in ten years' time because it will have to pay the CO2 fee. Estonia is a country with more than 50% of the forest's surface, with its own oil shale reserves, from which we can produce oil and gas. And yet now we are no longer able to generate energy for ourselves, because we have been slowing down our production, not to mention that wind energy has simply been prevented from starting in Estonia for the last ten years simply because of the tantrum of an official. Fortunately, this official is no longer active in this area, and today these decisions have been made that in a few years there will be very many places where wind farms can be built. It is time we realize that we are here only for our Estonian people, not for anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U71	Lauri Western Forest on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U72	Thank you. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U73	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is true that many people in Estonia are doing hard and many are doing very hard. I recall that, unfortunately, in Estonia, we have people living in poverty or absolute poverty, nearly 300,000, and [any] price increases, especially those that have taken place today, have a very strong impact on many of them. And not only many of them, but also many Estonian families living on average. Children need to be raised and their costs [with their incomes] are taken into account, but not that energy prices are so increasing and their livelihoods are being affected. The problem, we know, is energy prices. Inflation? Yes, there are one, two and three different reasons for this, but the main reason for the rise in inflation and the increase in prices [many] is, however, the unexpected rise in energy prices. In the opinion of the Socialists, of course, the state cannot remain a spectator at a time like this, but must come to the aid of the people. I think that this challenge can be divided into two parts: one on people's livelihoods and the other on curbing inflation. Social Democrats have proposed a minimum wage tax exemption. In our view, this situation has the greatest impact because it affects those who work, it affects pensioners who receive pensions and whose pensions are taxed on income tax, and it also affects businesses. If people are doing better and their livelihoods are less difficult, then ultimately, wage race pressure for entrepreneurs will be lower. If [lower wages] were to be exempted from income tax on a proposal from the Social Democrats, each person would have up to EUR 360 per year. I think that looking at prices and looking at the level of inflation, this should be the one that will cover the increase in compulsory costs. Forced expenses, I recall, are food, living expenses and transport costs. These are the costs that basically none of us can give up. You have these costs, and you have to pay them to live. I think it is up to the state, in crises and at such moments of gravity, to see that people, at least at a minimum [at a level], can cope with these compulsory costs rather than get into difficulties or fall into total poverty. The side of inflation. As has been said, energy prices carry this. There are quite a number of different solutions. I would like to add to the question that if the electric stock exchange does not work as it should, it needs to be reviewed. We cannot accept that [money] is taken from our people's pockets and taken abroad. In fact, there is no reason why the people of Estonia and Estonian society as a whole are affected very much by this, too, the entrepreneurship will be poorer. And the second question with regard to energy prices affecting inflation is, I think, the question we have to ask ourselves: do we have to have this way of increasing the price of room temperature everywhere to such heights as are approaching abnormalness? If in those areas where the warm price rises [hardly], for example in areas where fuel oil is heated, [can] replace it with a cheaper energy carrier, I think we should intervene there. We cannot allow room temperature prices to rise so much without justification. There is something that can be done here, and I believe that it would also have a direct impact on inflation, a reduction in inflation. Last week, I asked the Prime Minister, because, or rather, either the government or the coalition is going to support the proposal concerning the exemption from income tax. And when will the opinion of the government come, and when will we be able to discuss it in this Chamber at second reading in order to move forward with this issue as a matter of urgency? The Prime Minister said we'd wait till autumn and see. The concern is simply that the government can certainly wait until autumn and then watch, but for those people whose large sums of money go out of their wallets, they are sometimes already EUR 40.50, which puts many in a very difficult situation, because their incomes are very small, there is no time to wait. They need support and they need the decisions now, now and now, not in the autumn, when we can say again that the Oops went as always. I recall that today's inflation might have been lower if we had responded to the rise in energy prices when all this was already very clearly foreseen. The hit started last fall, not four months later. At the moment, it seems that we are about to step on the exact same rake, that we will wait and see and then we will have to say that you see, there are now tens of thousands of people in Estonia who will have to pay social benefits or whose children are in a very difficult situation. This is not the way to run a country and this is not the way to approach it. Unfortunately last week, we finally received this clear opinion from the Minister for Finance that the issue of helping people should not be addressed at all, too, is the draft which [proposed] income tax exemption at least to the minimum wage. I'm terribly sorry about that. All the opportunities that help the nearly 300000 Estonian people who live on the poverty line should be used as representatives of the people as Parliament. Let us not forget that the higher inflation, the more tax money comes from people. I think it would be very fair that if we unfairly take money from people, then at least we give something right back to those who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U75	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U76	Thank you. I had no intention of talking and had no patience to listen to everything the previous speaker said. But he finally got closer to himself as far as I could hear. Here each other's victories call the words 'people' and 'helping' and'supporting' it's not really state government, it's not describing the art of state government. If we agree that 300000 people are in difficulty in Estonia, I agree with that statement. That's what we got in charge here. However, all the presentation by the Committee on Monetary Affairs [which I have been reporting here] said, on the contrary, that the bonus of this measure will be paid in by the most prosperous 300,000. It is not a social policy, it is not a help, it is not a human-centred policy. Policy choices need to be made, taxpayers maintain the country, not the state does not maintain taxpayers. This is the basic truth, which unfortunately has been forgotten by the Soviets, even though they have contributed to the construction of a free Estonia. Let's turn this thing the right way and focus in the future on those who really need help. The state actually needs to pay taxes and a kind of demagoguery, like taxes paid by the state, could disappear again. Once upon a time, you were able to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U77	I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We have a proposal from the lead committee to reject draft 496 at first reading, and we need to vote it through. Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to point out that we are discussing the draft amendment to the VAT Act initiated by the Isamaa Group. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission of lading 496 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U78	42 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 27 against. The draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Isamaa Group has therefore been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U79	Our fourth item is the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Isamaa Group, 498 [first reading]. Call chair Helir-Valdor Seeder, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Isamaa Party has submitted a law amending the Local Government Organisation Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu [proposal]. If you remember last year's local government council elections, after the election results were announced and the new council formations gathered, we heard reports from all over Estonia. The first thing that began to be discussed was the local authorities' own salaries and benefits. This certainly was not the most appropriate message for people. This gave the impression that local governments and councils would first deal with the subjects of the elected persons themselves, their salaries, the Chairman of the Council, the Vice-Chairs and the committees...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U81	Mr. Seeder, I'm sorry for a moment. In the hall, the buzz has gotten really big. Please respect the waitress, and if there's a conversation, you can do it outside the hall. Thank you! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U82	Thank you. The first thing then was that salaries and allowances were discussed for the Chairman of the Council, the Vice-Chairman, the chairmen of the committees, according to how one or the other local authority has arranged its own life, what different compensatory allowances are paid. This certainly does not increase confidence in local authorities. In addition, this naturally raises a lot of questions. There is a material conflict of interest when a single member starts assigning salaries and benefits to himself. To summarise briefly the draft that we have tabled, the aim is to rule out cases where local councils will, first of all, discuss after the elections and decide to raise their [leaders'] remuneration and also to increase the salaries of elected mayors and parish elders in the same composition. § 1 of the draft law states that § 22 of the Local Government Organisation Act is supplemented by paragraphs 11 and 12 as follows: " ((11) The remuneration and compensation provided for in subsection 19 of subsection 1 of this section can only be increased to the mayor or mayor of the municipality elected by the next council and to the members of the paid government to be approved. (12) The remuneration and compensation provided for in subsection 21 of subsection 1 of this section can only be increased to the chairman and vice-chairman of the council elected by the next council.' The idea is that, just as it is regulated in the Riigikogu, that the Riigikogu can assign remuneration and benefits to the next composition, it could also be in all local governments all over Estonia. Many local authorities are already doing so today, and I think it is a very good practice and a very good political culture to do so. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case in many local governments. Moreover, we [know] cases where the outgoing council does not wish to discuss this issue before the elections. And after the elections, the same group that has opposed the topic and wage setting, the first thing, having become a coalition of opposition, will begin to dissect these issues in the narrow circle of the coalition, decided upon. I'm not going to bring in specific municipalities and people's names here, but there are more than one or two such cases. And this is an example of a very bad political culture. It's also very bad practice. This is bad for voters, because it would be much more honest and transparent if the electorate knew what the salaries of the next councillors and city leaders would be when they went to the elections. And in fact, it would also be fair to candidates, to the same potential people who will either be in charge of the council after the elections, or become mayors or mayors, members of the city or rural municipality government. Already when you apply, you might say that we want to fill one or the other post and pay-benefits will be [be]. This is, in my opinion, very necessary and important for both voters and those elected [information] and fair, transparent behaviour. We would also avoid conflicts of interest and mistrust. In fact, when it comes to practice, I do not think that the first thing to do is to set new salaries and benefits for yourself in the first few months. It would be quite correct to consider it together with the clarification of the budget and budgetary possibilities, the financial possibilities. At least for that long, the new leaders could suffer and act on the salaries of the previous composition until the budget is adopted. Together with the budget, I hope that new salaries will be introduced for all municipal workers due to new opportunities. But it is such a practical observation, it is not a direct result of the draft law; this approach is not addressed in our specific draft. A possible question or criticism of this draft is that they will ask what happens if there is a need for the new composition to reduce wages on the rolling track. There may be an unexpected economic crisis or, as we are seeing today, a health crisis, and as a result, economic opportunities are narrowing. So what do we do? The answer is very simple: Parliament does not need years, not even months. If such a situation really does occur, it will be much more extensive and it will certainly also concern the public sector, with the need to review the state budget, etc. I recall what was going on during the previous economic crisis. Parliament will then be able to carry out a fairly operational review of legislation and enable it to do so. So that certainly cannot be an argument against the adoption of this draft. Should such a situation arise, I believe that Parliament will be able to deal with the [relevant] draft within a month and make the corresponding amendments to the law. But as we can see, this is a very rare case. No such need has arisen in the last ten years, not even in 15 years. And should this need arise once in a few decades, Parliament will also be able to react operationally. I would add that this draft does not entail any additional financial obligations for the state budget and is also in line with European Union law. I very much hope that, despite the fact that the commission did not support our very good draft for incomprehensible reasons, that those ambassadors who voted against the [Commission] and did not support the further processing of this draft in the Riigikogu have been able to examine these arguments in greater depth, are able to change their minds and are ready to go forward with this draft today, so that we can finish the first reading and add worthy proposals and ideas from coalition politicians at second reading, so that this draft can be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U83	You have questions too. Starting Valdo Randpere. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U84	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Just one very, very simple and specific question: do you see that here, when this draft becomes a law, there could be a problem or even an obstacle to the constitution and the autonomy of local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U85	Thank you. No, there's no such threat. The Riigikogu has regulated the activities of local governments with different laws in very different areas. And the foresight of such criteria is neither in my opinion nor in the opinion of several experts with whom we have been communicating in the preparation of this draft, asking for their opinion, the autonomy of the local government to such an extent that it is [hitting] the European Charter of Local Government or the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. There's no sign of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U86	Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U87	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have also been involved with the municipality for quite some time, and I must admit that there are, however, quite a number of logic errors in this short draft, in my opinion. One of Valdo Randpere here has just been talking about the autonomy of local governments. The second point is that for some reason the explanatory memorandum assumes that the municipality always wants to raise salaries and other charges. And the third moment is what is inevitable because of the circumstances that after the elections, the coalition is actually entitled to form a new active team in a so-called unique composition and to set the corresponding fees. It doesn't say how many parish governments have to have members and so on. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U88	Thank you. There is no logic to this first comment or question. We have a different understanding of whether the autonomy of local government is being restricted or not. I am convinced and at all the initiators of the draft, our group is convinced that there is nothing like this. And, as I said, we have also consulted on this issue. So here we're just different. But if we leave this draft in the process and finish the first reading, we can continue to argue on this issue and, if necessary, to carry out more in-depth legal expertise. The Isamaa Group certainly does not want a draft in the Riigikogu to be a law that is in conflict with the Constitution or which is in any way in breach of the law. So let's leave it to the procedure, we'll both get a more detailed answer and clarity in the course of the procedure. Now, the second remark that there is a reference to raising local government salaries. Yeah, it's based on practice, but it's not an absolute problem right now. We are talking about that the content of the draft is that the next composition [salary] may also be set at a lower level. Our draft does not stand in the way of maintaining, increasing or reducing wages for the new team. This bill does not regulate this. The explanatory memorandum refers to current practice, which has still been a 99.9% increase in wages. But the content is that one could determine the next composition of salaries, be they the same, higher or lower. What will be like a team, how big or small, this bill does not regulate at all, so there is no contradiction or problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U89	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In this form, it sounds very popular with the first swing, and indeed the previous composition is more foresighted and wiser. Do you see a contradiction here that, if the new electoral commission still decides all, relatively all, within the four years of its administration, and if it is taken away from it, will it cause any problems? And the other thing is, why don't you just think about good practice on how to deal with issues like wage fixing? Perhaps this would also help to exercise power in a more just way?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U91	I didn't understand the first part of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U92	I'm sure you can clarify the other question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U93	But as far as good practice is concerned, we have now had the Estonian state more than 30 years since the restoration of independence, and unfortunately this good practice has not been rooted so far. As I said, there are municipalities that apply it in such a way that the previous composition confirms wages to the next, but there are different ones. And there are examples where this culture has become the opposite: in the past, wages have been decided on for the next composition, but this practice has been abandoned. The Riigikogu has not only limited itself to good practice, but has even stipulated in the law that wages for the next composition will be decided. We have not restricted ourselves to good practice either. So I guess there's nothing wrong with the law in itself. The law is also part of the culture. Politics and laws are part of culture, and the law we could also take as a social agreement that has been reached between representatives of the public, and that is also part of good practice. There's no way I'd go against these things. Parliament is discussing everything, we have a lot of people here who are involved with local authorities, who are in local councils, who have practice in the exercise of executive power [in the exercise], and I believe that they have also received a mandate. If we decide here, it is also an agreement and good practice. If it is adopted at the level of the law, it will probably motivate the municipalities better. I also think that it harmonises this practice. This last, last autumn's election of local government councils, I did have, I say frankly, a little embarrassing to read that a few months after the municipal elections, the main announcements of the newspapers were about the wages of local government leaders: comparisons of who raised how much, who raised more, who did less. A comparison was started and this was the most discussed topic after the elections for several months. And I can say that a number of people asked me if this really was the most important problem that the new formations were about to deal with. Of course, it could be said that when people start working, they still have to determine under what conditions, etc. Got it. But I will say once again that I think it would have been good practice if it had been brought together with the beginning of the new financial year, and it has been done jointly by all those working in the municipal sector. Could have been a couple of months. Unfortunately, this good practice did not go on. We could have done that. And second of all, I still think that setting yourself a salary... In the case of local government councils, it is true that the members of the council all vote, the same future chairman of the council and vice-chairman of the council raise their hand in determining their own remuneration, in determining compensation. Excuse me, not the future Chairman of the Council, but the mayor, who is in the council, will determine his own future salary if the coalition agreement has already been agreed. That when a person in the council votes for himself, sitting in councils, I think it's not a good practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U94	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U95	Thank you very much. Good waitress! A very fair initiative has come from you here, and it deserves to be supported. It is somewhat sad that I feel, and I also know that there are a lot of politicians here who support this status quo in order to be able to raise their wages. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. And to count on it, as Urve Tiidus said here, that perhaps good practice would change something is difficult. We know that these practices have never changed, we have this life as it is. However, when discussing this issue in the Commission, the problem was raised that it was not possible for the political forces, who see that they will lose power next time and will no longer prevail, to take such a step as to bring wages to the minimum for the next composition in order to disrupt the work of the next composition. Isn't that a threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U96	Such a threat is theoretically quite possible. It cannot be ruled out that this is the case, but it is the will of the representatives of the people in that case. I would say and bring a parallel that we have the same threat in the Riigikogu. But I wouldn't overexaggerate it. Although the draft provides for wages and allowances to be allocated to the next composition, the law leaves the possibility to pay certain one-off fees for additional tasks. So let's just say that there is always some way not to miss these rigidly imposed rules, but to further resolve this problem if such, well, I would say, a very unfulfilled cultural decision is taken in one local government or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U97	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U98	Thank you very much, Mr President. The same esteemed waitress! Where did the autonomy and self-regulation of the local government go? I understand this is one of the core values of the Fatherland. In presenting this bill, you actually give a very clear signal that you do not trust the elected council. Once again, where did the autonomy of local authorities go?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U99	No, in my opinion, the autonomy of the local government has nothing to do with this, because we leave it entirely to the local government to determine wages. Let's just lay down a certain regulation that the previous composition will determine the next [wages]. But the state doesn't intervene here, he doesn't tell me how much these salaries have to be. And all this decision-making remains the responsibility of the local government. It is our desire to avoid the situation that I have been talking about, where in essence [in my opinion] there is a conflict of interest. The desire is to avoid that confidence in the local government, because of the behaviour that it was following the last elections, will not increase, but decrease. We want to avoid this practice and set the framework for this by leaving [the right of decision] to the local government council. In my opinion, we are not going down the path of restricting local self-government autonomy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U100	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U101	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, In your presentation and answers, you also claimed that the press was interested in the wages of local government leaders or local government leaders. In fact, the same applies to the Riigikogu's salaries and the [cost] benefits of the Riigikogu to an Estonian or any human being who likes to go through another wallet. Is there a risk that the salaries of future rural municipality leaders, not school houses, roads, pedestrian routes, will be the main issue before the elections? I'm afraid there's such a danger that people are going to be very much apart from the issue of pay and other issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U102	Thank you. Well, I think that if it is decided before the elections, it will certainly receive more attention, there is no doubt. But I do not think that this will overshadow the other very important issues of local authorities relating to the closure of schools or the opening of schools or other important issues that [prevent] significant investments. These will probably remain the most important issues at local government level. But the attention it [the subject] may receive. If we look at the practice so far, I dare say that nothing bad will happen, because in many municipalities today it is the case that [wages] will be decided before the elections. And I have not heard that, before the elections, the media would have paid so much attention to this as after this wave comes at the same time. And in several municipalities, regulation has been adopted, which does not necessarily require further decision-making, I do not want to make an assessment here, it is good practice or not, and it is linked to a certain indexation. There are also such municipalities. And so there is no need for the previous local government to determine [wages] for the next composition at all. It would also be in line with the logic of our draft that [wages] have already been set, that the composition of the office does not change these coefficients and that regulation does not change. This is the current situation in some municipalities, and this bill also allows for this. Thus, the previous composition does not necessarily have to decide on the next [wages] if it has already been decided in the past through indexation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U103	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Another very simple question of principle: why do the initiators of the draft trust the old, outgoing council more than the new, newly appointed council? A good colleague of Paul Puustusmaa, who apparently was wrong during the vote in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, also found a very worrying place in this draft. I'm glad to hear it in this hall today. So the same example is that if the society in power today senses and realizes that they are not the voters, it is one of the very good ways to turn the cart and indeed not only to leave this issue undisputed, but to even lower the salaries of the next mayor and the chairman of the council. This significantly worsens the competitiveness of the municipality for a period of four years. This loss is many times greater than perhaps the fact that it is one of the decisions made by the new council. Perhaps once again: why do you trust the old, outgoing council more, knowing the risks that Mr Puustusmaa also referred to, compared to the new council that received the mandate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U105	Thank you. No, it is not my conclusion that we in any way trust the new composition less than the previous composition. Such a trivial conclusion should not be drawn. However, I do see that I am now taking your role on the contrary, I trust the ambassadors of local councils, and I consider them so cultural that such games will not be played and decisions will not be taken in this form. I think this is being done consciously and given the current situation, where we all know that inflation is very high, and it may be necessary to adjust people's salaries upwards in the coming years. If any of the ambassadors or political forces knowingly go this way before the elections to swim against the tide, I think it is anti-propaganda, and people will understand it. And this anti-propaganda must go with the majority of the council, individual ambassadors cannot torpedo it. So it is a very theoretical approach that the majority of the councils of one or another local government will knowingly go this way before the elections. I don't think that many local council members are distrustful, and I don't think they're, say, so petty. I don't think that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U106	Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U107	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, My ear caught another one of your answers to Paul Puustusmaa. Let's not call it a logic error. You mentioned that in the event that this theoretical [option] applies, that the outgoing council appoints a lower salary for the new rulers, it is possible to come out of this situation in such a way that the new rulers are essentially given a performance fee. Are you really prepared to resolve the situation by paying a constant premium to the council presidents, parish elders and parish board members? Is that really your idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U108	Thank you. No, it's not our idea. We want a [normal] normal situation that the previous composition determines the subsequent [wage]. And what did you say? "Remuneration" I haven't used in my speech, and neither have I. However, this is something other than the imposition of ad hoc charges for certain additional tasks. But I don't think it's a good practice, and I didn't bring it as an example that it's our idea or that it should be implemented. I was just saying that this general regulation is not so rigid that there is no alternative to it if [it is found to be necessary]. But we expect that good practice will continue, that the previous composition will determine the following [wages], and no problems will arise. I think that the fears that can be read here from the questions that restrict the autonomy of the local government and the outgoing compositions are irresponsible, want to turn the cart to the next composition and so on, are clearly over-enhanced. Let's see if there's a case like this in practice. After all, we in this Chamber are able to supplement and amend [the laws] if it really should become clear that the ambassadors of local government councils in Estonia are irresponsible and that the risks you mentioned here will be realised in practice. I think that we do not need to discuss and change this [regulation] from this point of view in the future. But if that's really the way it should be, then we have a chance to change that law too. So let's not be afraid.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U109	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U110	Thank you very much. Good Helir! Is it possible to eliminate the problem [to] such an interesting solution that the head of the municipality can be directly elected by the people? Instead, it could remove this problem from this side [by approaching]. I mean, yes, a direct election.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U111	Well, that would be a fundamental change in the Estonian local government system if we went directly to the elected local government manager's path. I know that this kind of direct democracy and national democracy is very close to the heart to the EKRE in general. There is certainly a different approach between the various parties here. I do not consider it necessary to choose local government leaders directly from the people in Estonia at the moment. That would require, I think, major changes at all. This would probably also require a rethink of the balance between the local government council and the executive, if it were a directly elected local government leader. But that's a little different. This is not directly relevant to this wage setting, so this draft does not regulate it. And I do not think that this will solve this problem either. Our [proposal] is above all that the same composition itself, the same people, does not charge themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U112	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In itself, your passion for defending this bill is sympathetic. But now I ask you this: when drafts come from the Government of the Republic, it is generally the custom to ask for opinions from the parties concerned as well. Did you ask for the views of local governments before you presented this draft to the Riigikogu? What do they think of that idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U114	Thank you. I've tried to appear as passionately as possible here to explain the position of the initiator. We have not made such a traditional round of coordination when perhaps the Government of the Republic does. If you are wondering whether we have sent letters to all local governments or whether we have sent letters to an association of local governments, [then not]. However, we have communicated with different municipalities and received different opinions. I can tell you that we have received feedback. I also honestly recognise the different opinions: there are those who have supported and there are those who have not supported. So local governments have, I dare say, different opinions on the basis of this feedback.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U115	I don't see any more questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U117	It is now time to listen to Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the representative of the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U118	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For an emotional introduction: passion is something that certainly does not have to be ashamed of. I'm pretty sure Urve Tiidus complimented you on your passion, so that's definitely a recognition. I, too, am a passionate person and enjoy these presentations, which are truly passionate, and even as a man, I felt that passion in this presentation. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 15 February. In addition to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mart Uusjärv, Head of the Local Government Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Olivia Tellute, Legal Adviser, were also invited. At the committee meeting, Urmas Reinsalu first made a presentation, which this time was relatively brief, but in concrete, clear and understandable terms. These arguments were also raised by Mr Helir in his speech in this Chamber. Olivia Taltud, who presented the position of the Government of the Republic, was then given the floor. The Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft. The main reason for non-support is the fact that the draft is overly countering the right of self-management of the local government. This was the main reason why the Government of the Republic did not support this draft. It is important to note here, as Olivia Taltud also stressed, that the European Charter for Local Government provides that the internal organisation of local authorities, including wage conditions, is governed by the right of the local authorities to organise themselves [abundance]. And another important nuance to which Olivia Talte drew attention: in theory, it is not necessary to exclude the possibility of restricting the right to self-order. I believe that Parliament has done this in one case or another. But in such a case, there must be a so-called legitimate purpose on which such a violation of the right to self-order is based. And here we have to admit that the explanatory memorandum to this bill does not really have this legitimate purpose. Rather, the question is whether [the proposal] likes it or not is good or bad, but the legitimate aim is unwritten in the draft and the explanatory memorandum. That is also a formal reason. But I don't want to rely too much on it. A good colleague of Paul Puustusmaa found, and I think he also finds today, that there is no barrier to local self-regulation, that this [solution] is entirely proportionate and purposeful. Mart Võrklaev made a long speech on this subject and also pointed out that it is a little incomprehensible that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia is a very large advocate of direct democracy and that the right of self-regulation is always protected, but now it is as if local government councils are no longer trusted. Secondly, Mart Võrguship pointed out that if [now] the local government council and the new council have been given a mandate to decide on their own budget, which is many times greater than the wage line in the local government budget, it is unclear why we now do not trust the local government's new council to decide on these significantly smaller financial issues than to take the budget as a whole. In addition, Mart Võrguship pointed out that if [the decision] was taken by the outgoing council, it could become the main topic or one of the main topics in the pre-election debate, but perhaps this should not be the main topic. Several content items may receive less attention because [often] attention goes to what is simple and understandable. And, of course, the pay of local government leaders is something that everyone understands very well and is ready to take a stand on this subject. So other issues may suffer. Finally, as chairman of the committee, I expressed my position, and I am doing so here too. I fully share the concerns and the point that the initiators of the draft have had in mind when presenting this draft. I admit that, in practice, good practice and practice could be that the outgoing council really determines the salaries of the next councillor, the vice-chairman, the mayor, the city council members. It could be like this. And as a good example, this is the case in Pärnu. The salaries of the President, Deputy Chairman, Mayor and members of the City Council of Pärnu today were decided by the previous council. Of course we got the attention, of course we got the blame, but I think it was the right and wise decision. However, the fact that I support it does not mean that we are taking this opportunity from the new council. In my opinion, this is neither proportionate nor fair and still offends the same right of self-regulation. For some reason, we're saying you can't do that, you can't make that decision. Yes, you can adopt a budget that costs perhaps a hundred times as much as the wage bill for these managers, but you must not lower that question. Or another, which Helir gave as an example: we cannot prescribe what is the first or second or third question that the new council will discuss. It is still purely their competence and their decision. We do not have the right to prescribe in this Chamber what must be their first, second, third or fourth question as to when they may arrive at the salaries of the chairman or vice-chairman of the council or also of the members of the city administration. And maybe there are other practical examples or problems. One was brought to the attention of Mr Paul Puustusmaa. Maybe it was a little exaggerated when I asked about [the situation] when the old composition, the old coalition, sees that they don't qualify after the election. Maybe this pay cut is a little too rough, but you don't know, you can't rule it out. But at least it's very easy not to put it on the table, and no one will even notice if it's not raised. And this actually creates an important problem for the competitiveness of the municipality, especially if we look at inflation today. In this case, these salaries will be frozen for four years, and at the current inflation rate it is obvious that this will reduce the competitiveness of the local government. Or a couple of other examples. I understand that Isamaa is still not in favour of the direct election of the mayor by the people, but there is often a competition in the position of the mayor, which the new councils consider necessary. And it would be unacceptable for harassment to actually determine his salary number, the rate by which you can search for a new rural municipality parent or mayor through a competition. And a few more of these examples. If the local government is planning some structural changes, there is also this issue. For example, today there are three assistant parents and maybe a new composition thinks that two are enough. Then it is probably quite likely that these two will also do its third job, in full or in part, and their pay could and should also be proportionally higher. We're actually going to have this problem here. So once again, I [understand] this idea and purpose, and I think it could be that way. At the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it also turned out that there could be good practice of local governments, for example, as is the good practice of a member of the Riigikogu, where the idea is indeed written. But once again: if, as a parliament, we go down this road by amending the law that the initiators of the draft have come up with, then we are obviously unduly and excessively restricting the right of self-regulation of the local government. This is the main, [plus] all other details [in addition]. So the question now is not whether or not this bill likes it or not is good or bad. I don't think we can even reach that assessment because there is this very formal problem here. That's the main thing. But there is no antagonism, as I said, I share this goal. In conclusion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took the following procedural decisions: Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 22.02.2022. Nice date. The decision was consensual. Secondly, propose that the draft be rejected. For 5: Toomas Kivimägi, Igor Kravtšenko, Oudekki Loone, Marko Storm, Mart Võrklaev, against 3: Anti Seminar, Paul Puustusmaa and Urmas Reinsalu, impartial 0. Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed as the representative of the commission, and the decision was consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U119	Thank you. It would be possible to ask questions, but I don't see any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U121	In that case, we can go to the negotiations. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, this is an interesting question as to whether the draft would interfere with the autonomy and the right of self-regulation of the municipalities or not. Or it's a bolt, well, let's say, thin. I'd rather think if it's a bolt, it's thin. And there is certainly no substantive basis for rejecting this draft. Let me just give you an example. Last week, I think it was when we discussed the issue of land tax, and then the respected coalition unanimously rejected the proposal of the Fatherland to compensate the municipalities for the loss of income due to the land tax exemption on land under nature conservation. Its [reimbursement] is a direct task for the State. And then, once upon a time, the respected coalition had no question as to whether there could be a cripple. Specific amounts will be taken away from the municipalities. I would remind you that more than EUR 80 million has been taken away in today's prices over 20 years. At least 80 million euros, and no scratch! If the coalition needs it, there's no barricade, if not, there's a barricade. That's one side. Indeed, the previous composition [may] establish its [wage]. The good chairman of the committee, Toomas, gave an example of the city of Pärnu. There are other municipalities, we find examples in Raplamaa where good practice is practiced, and it certainly deserves to be emphasised. And I understand that hopefully most of us here in the Riigikogu will feel that this good practice also needs to be taken more to the local governments. One of the analogs, perhaps from which this bill has been born, is the remuneration of the work of the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu. It actually works today. Indeed, the Riigikogu has established it, and the principle that the Riigikogu cannot assign pay to itself, i.e. the current composition, has worked. There hasn't been a problem. There hasn't been, I think, any problems in Pärnu, there hasn't been any problem in Kohila once we've set this fee for the Chairman of the Council in advance. Indeed, once the payment has risen But it has been negotiated, and these decisions have been made about the next composition. Let us think about what Paul, a good colleague here, threw into the air: suddenly it is decided that we will turn the cart and bring the wages down so that [downward] is no longer possible. Well, that would be equally possible here in the Riigikogu. That the coalition that's in power today says, you know, now it's like we're screwing you. We may not be in the next government anymore, or there is no party of the Prime Minister, and we will bring down wages. That sounds a little funny. In this sense, however, it is worth drawing parallels between the municipality and the state and, in my opinion, if we are doing these weighings here, we will see that this probability is not very high in itself. I'm sure that's what I'm thinking, and I'm also a draft waitress... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U123	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U124	Helir here stressed that it would be possible to supplement this draft if necessary. I come here to one of our earlier drafts, which was voted out at first reading. The draft on nature conservation was initiated in the Riigikogu. Most of the members here, when asked, felt that there was a need to discuss this issue, that there was a problem. But to have a debate here and make it better together, no, that's not what you want. At the time, it was said right here that if it had come from the government, of course we could have discussed it. But if he doesn't come from the government, there's no point. Such a principle is regrettable that if the bill does not come from the government, no matter what, it will come from the opposition side or even from a cross-party side, we will simply reject it without discussion. This is what makes the rubber stamp of the Riigikogu. In this sense, it would still be worth discussing the bill, making it better if necessary. Indeed, there have also been a number of proposals, several questions, during this debate today. The question, however, is that when structural changes occur, when the administrative apparatus is reviewed as a whole, work roles are divided around how to act. I am of course of the opinion that we do not have to write all the details into the law, but really, if there are any failures, the Riigikogu will also be able to react promptly. You shouldn't think so badly of yourself that if we pass a law, the next time we come back to it in 30 years. After all, we are also able to make faster changes that drive life forward. So, there is a call from the Fatherland Party: we will continue the debate precisely to deepen the good practice that is being applied today in many municipalities so that it can reach all municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U125	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U126	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Heiki! We do not see the problem of the old council establishing the salaries of the new chairman and vice-chairman of the council, the mayor, the members of the city council. We don't see the slightest problem with that. We think it could be [so] and it should be. However, we see a problem when we take away the opportunity of the new council to decide for itself. These same possibilities that, for certain subjective reasons, the old council is not prepared to raise the wages of the municipality and city leaders in the next composition So the problem is not that we are not in favour of it at all. On the contrary, as I said in my presentation, I fully share the idea and view of the initiators of the draft that it could [be] and should be the decision of the previous Council. But once again, we cannot at all accept that we are restricting the decision-making of the new council. Secondly, the reason why the Government of the Republic does not support this bill is 90% or more purely formal legal. It's purely formal. As I said, it is not a draft [in which to ask] whether it likes or does not like it, whether it is good or bad. But this is about what I also called the signature of the Fatherland, the autonomy of the local government, the right to self-governance. We must not make excessive reservations in this, but to be quite honest, on the Fatherland side, this is the second topic in which you are prepared to make certain concessions. A week ago, there was also a debate where you withdrew a bit from the autonomy of the municipality [the principle]. But sometimes it happens. The main reason, however, is that the [amendment] would violate the autonomy of the local government, the right to self-order, which stems from § 154 of the Constitution and, in fact, from the European Charter of Local Government. These are so basic and clear things. And, as I said earlier, these same salaries are, according to the European Charter for Local Government, the right of self-regulation of local government [the subject]. We have no dispute here about the substance. Once again, members of the coalition, both the government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, certainly share this principle. But there is no point in us going to solve the problem so that we create five new problems. And the main problem is still the same formal legal issue. Now why the Commission decided to reject the draft, why we do not deal with it, why we do not correct mistakes. The reason is very simple. Once again, since we consider this to be a very clear formal legal problem, it is not worth wasting the time of the members of the Riigikogu and leaving it in the process if we still see that it does not actually see the light of [the law]. But to go on with this issue in the practice of local governments or in some other similar form, this is a completely different issue. This should in any case be ensured. And also, the same formal purpose I was talking about. After all, it cannot be ruled out that such autonomy or self-regulation of the local government is limited. And you're, Heiki, right by God, it always hurts, almost every bill is gonna break. But the question is, to what extent it hurts, either mildly or excessively. Almost always does. So if you say he's gonna hurt you, and that's why it's not going, that's not an argument. But in this case, he's overreacting, which is the position of the Government of the Republic. And indeed, we also admit that he is unduly hurting. And those examples that I've already drawn up, these same structural changes. In the same way, we still freeze the local government's right to decide on these salaries. There's no way we can make this right. So once again, ladies and gentlemen, there is no question of either the opposition or the coalition. To be honest, I am looking for a draft opposition that the Government of the Republic and the Coalition can support. Honestly, I'm looking! And my first thought was, too, when Helir submitted this bill, I told Helir, and I pointed out that it was a very cool bill. But I didn't go into enough formal justice for this bill. So I totally support the content, but formally, Helir, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U127	Heiki Hepner, line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, we actually very often take decisions here that concern the autonomy of local authorities, and now it is a question of how much this draft concerns. Indeed, I say once again: good Thomas, if you are looking for a draft to support, the proposal to amend the Land Tax Act could have been supported last week. We take away from the municipalities or, rather, do not compensate them for the loss of more than EUR 4 million each year. It's real money. This is not a virtual amount and this proposal could have been supported. These drafts are really about the municipality and I think that there will also be proposals on the opposition side that will take Estonia's life forward. The power and the attention to this kind of sight!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U129	Kalle Grünthal, is there a line?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U130	Absolutely right. The point is that the esteemed Toomas Kivimäe used the expression: "We don't think it's right. "He is here as a member of the Riigikogu, and I think that [the claim] affected me too, because I, too, am here as a member of the Riigikogu. As a result of the above, I would like to say, good Toomas Kivimäe, basically, if you speak, you will still speak on behalf of your party, won't you? Don't take this chance that you can start talking for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U131	Toomas Kivimäe has a line. I'm sorry! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U132	Yeah, I'm sorry! Actually, I wanted to say a line. Since it qualified for speaking, it is not a line, but my name was mentioned. I think that our common goal would still be to make as many decisions as possible in this Chamber, with 101 people behind it. This is the first objective for each draft. That is why I think it is appropriate to speak in this form. Yes, it is clear that people have different views and perceptions. But once again, there is no antagonism in this bill. We fully share that this could be [perhaps] and should be the decision of the previous council, but we cannot in any way consider it formally right that we take this opportunity away from the new council. This is not in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U133	Thank you. Ivi Eenmaal is a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U134	Mr President, I have a proposal for you to make it clear to your partymates, the members of the EKRE, that we have MP Toomas Kivimägi. Please use the names correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U135	Got it. I'm gonna go over to Thomas later and ask him how he wants his last name turned. Now it's like the commission has done... [[They say something in the hall.]] No, no, no! Stop! I won't do it again. I'm already done negotiating. The lead committee has proposed to reject the draft 498 at first reading, and that is what we must vote on and we will do the hall call for it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here, at first reading, a draft amendment to the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Isamaa Group, 498, and the Steering Committee has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. We are now voting on this rejection proposal. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-22_U136	There are 53 delegates in favour of the rejection proposal, 17 against. The draft has been rejected at first reading. That concludes today's agenda and the session is also closed. Thank you.
