ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U2	First of all, we have the opportunity to hear the oath of office of a member of the Riigikogu, Anastassia Kovalenko-Kõlvart. [[It's ringing the bell.]] On 3 April of this year, Anastassia Kovalenko-Kõlvart, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, took up the resignation of Rene Tammis, a member of the Riigikogu. I now ask you to attend the Riigikogu Chair in order to take an oath of office. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U3	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U4	Dear colleagues, the following is the oath of Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis. I ask the Chancellor of Justice, Ülle Madise Riigikogu, to take an oath of office. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U5	I pledge to remain loyal to the people of Estonia, the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order, and in accordance with my conscience, in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Estonia, to carry out impartially all the duties for which I am obliged by the Office. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U6	Thank you, good fellows. We've done these two important things. Now let's move on to the third issue. I ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to pass on drafts or inquiries. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Our Estonian public universities have been struggling with clear underfunding for years and this crisis is, unfortunately, deepening. Although the Ministry of Education and Research has promised solutions, they have not been found. Therefore, the rectors of universities did not sign new administrative contracts. Indeed, this financing crisis is already so deep and serious that universities have started to limit free Estonian-language curricula. This is, in fact, a wider crisis in our higher education, which poses a particular threat to university education in Estonian. Six Social Democrats are making an inquiry to our Minister for Education and Research on this issue, with which we want to know how this unfortunate crisis has arisen, what steps the Ministry is planning to substantially increase funding for universities, and yet today's government has no intention of losing a free Estonian-language higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U9	I'm sorry! The inquiry has been submitted electronically. Thank you. [[Summing in the hall. They're applauding.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U10	Thank you. We have information that it has actually arrived electronically. I now ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Koka. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U11	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I am handing over the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic irreversibly end the use of Russian gas. The proposal is based on the European Union's political objective of energy independence from Russia's energy sources and the decision to terminate the use of Russian gas in Estonia irreversibly by the end of this year at the latest. To make a binding decision on the construction of LNG terminal in Estonia, offering the opportunity to participate in the project to Latvia and Finland. Within two weeks of the entry into force of this Decision, submit to the Riigikogu as an overview of the action plan for the construction of LNG terminal in Estonia, a plan to support alternative energy supply opportunities for Estonian gas customers, planned legal activities on ending the use of Russian gas, an analysis of the gas pricing policy for LNG gas supply to consumers and a plan to mitigate possible price pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U12	Please join the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U13	Honourable representative of the people! The Ukrainian Government has called on the governments of Poland and the Baltic States to impose additional national sanctions on the transport of goods both to Russia and to Russia. In this context, we propose that the Government of the Republic, in cooperation with the Baltic States and Poland, immediately impose national sanctions on land transport to and from Russia, as well as on the use of Estonian ports for ship transport to and from Russia. Undoubtedly, our aim must be to achieve a European sanction. However, if, for various political reasons, this has not been possible so far, we must act quickly and implement national sanctions, also based on our geographical position. The United Kingdom has, among other things, already imposed a national sanction on the closure of port freight transport several weeks ago. According to the Ukrainian Government, the number of freight traffic at land borders has now increased towards the Baltic [countries] and Poland. There are over 300 trucks moving in the day. Volunteer protesters themselves, with their civil initiative, are trying to close the movement of these transport vehicles at the border with Belarus. Ukraine expects us to do so, and it is our moral duty to take this step without delay and also to ask the other Baltic States and Poland to do so and to impose a European sanction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U14	Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U15	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching nine draft laws today. First, a draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection and industrial emissions. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Environment in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, a draft law on the organisation of health services and related amendments to other laws. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U16	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, the hall is so big "quiet" that it just gets embarrassed. Please, let us honor the waitress and those who wish to listen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U17	Thirdly, the draft law amending the Identity Documents Act, the Consular Act and the State Fees Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on the Flag and Registers of Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Fifthly, a draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces and other laws (transfer of the vessels of the Police and Border Guard Board to the Ministry of Defence's administration). In processing this bill, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence. Sixthly, the draft law amending the Law on Law Enforcement, the Child Protection Act and the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors. Seventhly, the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Court Procedure and other laws (public court procedure). Eightth, a bill for the insolvency of a natural person. Ninth, the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure (supporting aggression and related hostilities). In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice in the proceedings of the above four draft laws. All nine draft laws have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U18	Thank you. Good colleagues, no more calls. I have adopted 11 drafts and one inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu Management Board, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Riigikogu Management Board decides on their further processing. Now, let's go through the presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U19	78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23. Let us now go to the clarification of the agenda and also to the approval of the agenda. In fact, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to remove the first item on the agenda of the Tuesday session of this working week, namely the third reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law amending the law on the granting of international protection to aliens. Together with this amendment, we will start preparing the vote on this week's agenda. Like a chorus. A procedural question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U20	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Last week, we had an unprecedented situation here, if you remember you were perhaps not personally in the chair of the Riigikogu, but we lost a number of members of the government who were supposed to appear before the Riigikogu and defend their drafts. Finally, several members of the Riigikogu who were present in this Chamber just before the item was dealt with, but were no longer present at the time of the item. And we couldn't identify [where they disappeared], nor were we able to find the ministers or those ambassadors. Does the Board of the Riigikogu know today why the ministers did not come before the Riigikogu and also the members of the Riigikogu, who were authorised by the committees to submit drafts, did not come before the Riigikogu and where they were at that time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U21	Thank you. Yes, indeed, I was not [here]. I understand we're talking March 23rd. I wasn't really then [here]. Or the 24th, I understand that we've had 23 and 24 casualties. [March]. Where were they? No, we haven't discussed it directly. I know that some ministers have said that, for example, the Minister of Social Protection has written us a letter, [also] the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has written a letter and the content is quite similar: please inform the Riigikogu Bureau that, as a result of a significant change in the agenda of the Riigikogu, I will not be able to make a presentation on the agenda of the Riigikogu, according to the fifth point, eighth point, the draft under the ninth point [of]. So I can explain that. I wasn't here, I was in Kiev, Ukraine on an external mission. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U22	Thank you, good Chairman! If you are able to do so, please read out at what time and on what date these letters have been received from the ministers. When we asked Hanno Pevkur if any messages or anything had come, I think it was Thursday at 11:00, he said he had no information whatsoever. And now, for example, if we knew when the Commission representatives who did not come replied, for example. Is that reasonable behavior? If this information has not come in time, let us say, by the beginning of the next sitting, do we consider it worthwhile that we are still keeping these issues in the work programme this week, unless these explanations have come before 22:00 on 24 March?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U23	Thank you. I mean, I can tell you what time these three ministers' prayers have been received. First of all, Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo has sent an e-mail to the Riigikogu on 23 March at 21.42 p.m. Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, 23 March at 22.18 p.m. And then the Foreign Minister, Eva-Maria Liimets, March 23rd at 10:30. So these are the times I have to tell you. Procedural question, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Since we know that the amendment of the Aliens Act and the Law on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens has been clarified, it is extremely urgent in a war situation. But now that the Government of the Republic is withdrawing it from the proceedings, can you tell me what happens next? Parliament, as legislator, should understand when we can actually solve these problems. Can you tell us what's gonna happen from here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U25	Thank you. I have to apologize, but I have no information that the Government of the Republic has taken it back. I have the information that I have just read here that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed that this working week be removed from the agenda of the Tuesday sitting. So what happens now? If I rely on this information, then it should continue to be that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will meet this week and propose when to put it on the agenda. But I don't have any information about the government. A procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U26	Thank you, Mr President. I am unpleasantly surprised that the Board of the Riigikogu did not even consider it necessary to discuss the case where ministers do not appear before the Riigikogu and directly violate the law that is their duty and, in the same way, the representatives of the committees appointed as rapporteurs. We therefore missed a number of drafts. Is and when is the board planning to discuss this situation? In addition, I have the proposal to convene a body of elders as soon as possible, because this is an unprecedented case that has taken place. As I said, it is a violation of the law and, in the current situation, in such a way as to block Parliament's work or, in fact, to essentially exclude work in this Chamber, because people simply do not show up, in other words, expressing the language of the country, they are losing their jobs; it is a disgraceful downsizing of parliamentary culture. And these letters are good that the ministers sent them, now there is also a sign for history, where the agenda items planned on that very day, which should have been on the agenda [for discussion] around 4 pm to 17 pm, are hopelessly late for the Minister to appear before Parliament. It's incredible. Please tell me, will you convene the Board of the Riigikogu and also the Board of Elders to discuss this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U27	Thank you. I hope that my information is correct, this is as follows: in the Thursday session on 24 March, you were very likely to have made a procedural question and made a proposal in this context. This session was chaired by Martin Helme, Vice-President of the Riigikogu, who, as far as I know, said that I supported this proposal. If you're asking me when the body of elders is meeting, I think it will be this week. Does the Governing Board discuss [this situation]? When we meet with the body of elders, this debate is already wider. Well, the board must discuss it, of course it must discuss it. Last week [week] was a week without sittings and not all the board members were in Estonia for a whole week, even then there were foreign missions. So maybe that's why we're not gathering, but we're definitely meeting this week. Martin Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U28	Thank you. I wanted to help my colleague, Mr Seeder, and the chair of the sitting. Indeed, at the meeting of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu on 24 March, this topic was discussed. Since the Chairman of the Riigikogu was on several foreign missions in a row and did not have it in Estonia at the time of this new job, on the 24th we discussed it with Hanno Pevkur, and we were of the opinion that the topic definitely needs to be convened by the Assembly of Elders, and this issue must certainly be dealt with on the board when the entire board is together, because we cannot have substantive discussions without the Chairman of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U29	Thank you. I also say to you that I support this approach. This week we will try to hold both meetings, both the body of elders and the board of directors [our]. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U30	Thank you, good Chairman! You told me that Eva-Maria Liimets sent an e-mail at ten thirty. Did you mean 10:30 or 10:30? [If last, then] in this case we are dealing with an extremely capable minister who is already a psychic.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U31	Thank you. Yes, he sent an e-mail at 10:30 PM. It's my fault I didn't specify whether it was 10 in the morning or 30 in the evening. Answer: 10:30. A procedural question, Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although you were not here, this is not the reason why there were no members and ministers of the Riigikogu here, somewhat mysterious. At a time when the Russian Federation is conducting aggression in Ukraine, the work of Parliament is being paralyzed on the ground, and both ministers and rapporteurs protested against it. It is very strange that the same, already bad, soup is still being tried to warm up here. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U33	Thank you. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U34	Thank you. I regret to admit that our parliamentary culture has fallen incredibly, the Honorable Head of the Riigikogu. I read about the weekly agenda, and it also concerns the work of the committees, but the work of Parliament as a whole is still organised by the Board of the Riigikogu, and at the video session of the European Union Affairs Committee today at 13.30 today we have 4 April, as we know, on the agenda: Estonia's positions at the Euro Group meeting on 4 April 2022 and at the meeting of the Economic and Financial Council of the European Union on 5 April 2022, invited by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus; and Estonia's views at 4 to 5 April 2022. At the meeting of the Education, Youth, Culture and Sport Council of the European Union, held on 30 April 2022, the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. Tell me if it is normal working arrangements that we in the Committee on European Union Affairs today, at lunch on 4 April, are shaping Estonia's positions for these international sittings, for the councils that are already taking place today. What's going on today, 4th and 5th is written here. Is this a perfectly normal working arrangement?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U35	Thank you. Good questioner, you know as well, or even better than I do, that the Commission is organising the work of permanent committees. Now, this question, which you bring before this House as a procedure, really is the organisation of the Commission's work. Yes, the European Union Affairs Commission gives its position to the members of the government when they participate in the Council. Often these views can be finalized at the last moment. Is it good that this is happening on the same day as the Council? I think it is not a problem directly, but of course it is better that we know that ELAK will also work during sitting-free weeks, when it is possible, when the materials are ready, they will be there early. However, this is often not possible because these materials will be specified until the last moment. I cannot tell you what it was like to have these materials available to the two councils you mentioned, whether it was already known at the end of last week or whether it really lasted until 13.30 today. Procedural question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U36	Thank you, Mr President. When you quoted here the e-mails sent by ministers, there was a reason for the change in the agenda. On Monday we approved the agenda here in the Riigikogu, I was present at all these meetings, and I do not know that the agenda would have been changed. Did the Riigikogu Board then send ministers an amendment to the agenda that was not notified here to the Riigikogu ambassadors, or how can they refer to the change of agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U37	Thank you. No, such a letter was certainly not sent and it is not within the power of the Riigikogu's board to change the agenda. I wasn't here these days, but I suppose it had something to do with the fact that some point could have shifted to the next date if we started to predict. I don't know how to comment on that. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U38	Good manager! The question is that my colleague Michal here was talking about the Russian-Ukraine war. But has it been received, and what time did it receive from him in writing that he had to deal with the Russian-Ukrainian war and not appear here before us with his bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U39	Thank you. I have no written appeal or observation. A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U40	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I must be extremely critical of you. You are currently completely contributing to Parliament's working capacity, to the decline of Parliament's authority. Instead of taking a firm and clear position as Chairman of the Riigikogu that ministers and the Prime Minister should be asked to understand why they did not come and what was an obstacle, you tell us that at 22.30 we arrived where they said he would not come. Well, what does that mean? So when we got here, why don't you go behind the tree? I'm sorry to say this, but it doesn't cost anything. After all, this is spitting in Parliament's face, and you are clearly approving it now. I can't agree with that in any way. This is the most direct destruction of Parliament's authority that is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U41	Thank you. No, I don't approve of that in any way. I have also approached a member of the government, the Prime Minister, that ministers must also attend meetings of the Commission. I do not approve of this in any way if at one point several ministers are unable to attend the Riigikogu meeting. That is why I said that this week we will certainly be discussing this issue in the Board of Elders and also in the Board of Directors. So there is definitely no approval here. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U42	Thank you. First of all, about the work of the committees, we are now in a situation where almost all restrictions in Estonian society have been lifted, but for some reason the Riigikogu committees are still, I would say, continuing to work in the emergency regime. When I look at the work schedule this week, the Committee on the Environment is at the video session, the Committee on European Union Affairs is at the video session, the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs were at the joint video session, the Committee on Monetary Affairs was at the video session, the Social Affairs Committee was at the video session, the Committee on Foreign Affairs was at the video session, the Committee on Legal Affairs was at the video session and so on. We actually know that the usual form of work is still a physical meeting here at Toompea's house. I have a request: if the board discusses, points out this, then we could also return to the normal operating regime in the Riigikogu and stop working in comfort mode. This is a bad example for society in the wider sense. But the specific question about my agenda is that the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act clearly states § 53 (3): the issues that have not been discussed during the last working week of the plenary session will be taken first on the agenda of the new working week. And now I will return to the points where the rapporteurs disappeared last week, and what we had to discuss was on last week's agenda and, due to the Home and Working Rules Act, should be in the first order this week, but unfortunately there is no first order, except for one item left on the agenda. The rest is spread over other working days. This is not in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and I would ask the Bureau to bring this proposal into line with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and to raise the items on the agenda during the previous working week, which were not discussed, as the first items on the agenda this week. This means ahead of the enquiries that have been initially put on our agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U43	Thank you. First of all, the first part of this question. We have had a meeting of the Assembly of Elders, I think, a few months ago where we discussed whether or not committees could hold hybrid sessions. As I recall, the entire body of elders maintained that this was always the order of the committees themselves. That's what I'm gonna say. Now the other side. [Day] point, [proposal] 522, which [reading] was interrupted on 24 March, is, as you say, the first point today. The [draft] 241 requested the removal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The rest of the points that went to 23 or 24. Out of the agenda of the [March] sitting, this week has been put in agreement with the Commission and also with the ministers as to how it suits anyone. Furthermore, as far as I know, the Foreign Minister has been asked to refer the 520 SE to 13 April. This has been done in cooperation with committees and ministries. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U44	Thank you, good Chairman! Well, this composition can handle this kind of folklore again, or the change in the agenda actually means protest against Russia's aggression in the Ukrainian country. Okay, we're all protesting together. But why do ministers think that the Riigikogu has arranged for this matter to be protested against us? Did Kristen Michal also write that due to the change of agenda, or did he explicitly state that Russia's aggression in Ukraine and his protests against it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U45	Thank you. No, I don't know who's protesting and what. I know that I was asked, it was Peter Ernits, to my knowledge, whether this [letter] had been sent. I said that no such [letter] had been sent. And we do have a legal solution that if there is no performer, it is impossible to discuss [the order of business]. A procedural question, Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U46	Good manager, it's really procedural. Mr Seeder said that the Committee on the Environment was online. I will simply procedurally [specify] that some of the guests were on the web as usual, but Mr Metsoya and several other members of the Commission were physically present. Personally, I saw it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U47	Thank you. I would like to thank you for this important addition, and we have now received this verbatim letter. Let's keep going. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question. I'd like to ask you, how is it that we're so late today? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U48	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I have a small problem with one such thing as the Friday session of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Although, let's say, our rules of procedure and our rules of procedure stipulate that the sitting starts at 11:00 a.m., there have been cases where the sitting is announced at 10:00 a.m. for a long time. There are, of course, possibilities here that, in principle, this time may be changed when it is coordinated, let us say, at the beginning of the working week with all the Members of the Commission. The thing is, once again, that we are being sent this work programme, the monthly schedule, in a way where this beginning has already been set at 10 o'clock and essentially there is no coordination. I have also drawn attention to this in ELAK. Siim Kallas said that, but we've been like this all along, haven't we? The question now is whether, for ELAK, in principle, our home and operating procedures are absolutely not in force or whether they are still obliged to comply with this time, because there has been no such coordination. That's the first question. And the second question is: what does it mean or how does it involve coordinating the word with the Members of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U49	Thank you. The working and timetable really tells us by 11 o'clock at the start of the Friday Commission, unless otherwise agreed. I understand, as you yourself said in your question, I think it's been sent a month, this timeline. I'm based on the fact that no one has protested. I can't tell you how you're really gonna make that deal. If it's really agreed at 10:00, no one's protesting, then I think that's basically that coordination, so it can be. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, your procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U50	Thank you, Mr President. You have read to me very well the items on the agenda and the questions that have not been discussed last week, which are on the agenda of this week, and I have even admitted that they are on the agenda of this week. But according to my understanding, according to the Home and Working Procedures Act, they must be on the agenda of this week from the very beginning, because they were not discussed. As Paragraph 53 (3) says, once again I repeat: issues not discussed by the House during the previous working week [to be put on the agenda of the new working week first. ]. They were not discussed, nor were they withdrawn by the Commission. The fact that the debate proved impossible because the rapporteurs had disappeared does not change the content in the sense of this section, and they have remained undisputed and should now be on the agenda of this working week, as I understand it, as we have had the item on the draft law on mandatory liability insurance for health care providers, which we have also had in the course of the debate last week. 522. So I will continue to ask for the proposed agenda to be brought into line with the Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U51	Thank you. I agree with what you admitted that I really said the same thing, and here we have no disagreements. Now, this § 53 (3). We have comments on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu [the law], which states the following about its section and paragraph: "If, however, the question was not discussed at all, in practice, the Bureau has listened to the question of the proposal of the relevant committee during the new working week on the day and ranking of the discussion, or even left the matter out of the agenda of the new working week on the proposal of the Commission. However, such a practice is only admissible if it does not undermine the objective pursued by the provision to be commented on (see above). " So, in this sense, I will stick to my reply that this agenda was discussed with the committees, and it is done in cooperation with the committees and ministries. This is, in my view, also an opportunity for an executive edition. But let's move on. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U52	Thank you, Mr President. I will come back to this question by ELAK. The fact that Paragraph 47 (2) of our Rules of Procedure provides an opportunity to change the time of the meeting of ELAK in such a way that the chairman of the committee coordinates the meetings with the members of the committee at the latest at the first meeting of the working week, the criterion being the first meeting of the committee of the working week. We can't expand it for a month. I see that there is an infringement here. Would it be possible to draw the attention of Mr Kallas to the fact that the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure also apply to ELAK and its activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U53	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure shall apply to all members of the Commission and the Riigikogu, paragraph 1. Point two is that I believe that you can raise this issue yourself in the Committee on European Union Affairs when you say that you want to repeat it at the beginning of each week. I think it's quite natural that if there's a given schedule for the whole month and no one protests, that's how they work. Of course, if there is a desire to repeat it every week, you must signal it. I think otherwise, it is expected to be accepted. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U54	Thank you! Before the question, I would like to say, in the interests of the verbatim report, that the ambassadors have no problems attending the meetings of the Commission. I myself am a member of three committees, and I can do it. However, this may be a problem for ministers and their staff. And here, a good chief could be a little more demanding. We have made our contractors more comfortable in the form of ministers, but if they were present, perhaps there would not be the problems we are discussing. You said that if a sitting or, let's say, the agenda procedure is impossible, if a person is not present, does that mean that there is no person in the room or that there is no person on the board? Why am I saying this? I remember one time when the waitress was in the hall, but she didn't go to the remote. We can interpret it as maybe he was caught by a rampage fever. We're all eloquent people, of course, but that's just hitting like that blackout, you don't dare go in front of a microphone. That would require clarification. When we see that a person is in the hall, but he does not go to the remote control, and say that the procedure is incomprehensible, then the people who are watching our sessions are also incomprehensible to them, but he is not going to [to the remote]. Is that a good tone, and should this item go forward again to the next week? [For example] a person has collected [his] or has taken performances and will be more confident the next time, and once he has arrived in the hall, he will also be able to take these steps to make that remote control [go].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U55	Thank you. There were so many questions. First of all, I remember that here in the Riigikogu there has also been such a moment in the Chamber of the House, that if there was a presence check and, indeed, there were 85+ people here, then suddenly it turned out that there were only 49 members of the Riigikogu in the Chamber, in good case 50 members of the Riigikogu. It was then that, for example, in the case of an emergency sitting, the hearing failed. So I guess if a person is still in the hall and he's registered for the hearing, it's also pretty natural that he's gonna be here on the remote. And if there's a problem, we can always support. After all, we see this support for each other on a daily basis here, and this feeling of elbow in a good way we can offer. So either to take a show, I don't know. The improvement is always good, it cannot be resisted. Paul Woodland, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U56	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have a procedural question that actually pushes...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U57	I want to interrupt for a moment: there have been no other questions today than procedural ones. I just wanted to be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U58	Thank you. And, of course, he is pushing the question of Helir-Valdor Seeder concerning the meetings of the Commission. Indeed, Helir rightly pointed out that, for some reason, in many committees, we have remote sessions, video sessions, broadly in half. But now this is the kind of thing that may seem, and I think it is quite disturbing, if the Board of the Riigikogu does not take a more specific position. We have a way of understanding that the committees have become very creative in their decisions. Very creative. If we had a big debate in this big hall about how a large hall could hold remote hearings ♪ there was a very angry battle, then in the end it came to the conclusion that we had to comply with the procedure that the remote hearing was in the presence of extraordinary circumstances. I understand that there is also such a concept in legislation as an analogy. On the basis of the analogy, it would make sense that committees also have remote sessions in the event of exceptional circumstances. But right now, it looks so free that whoever wants to, it comes, and whoever doesn't want to, it doesn't come. Doesn't the board have any more specific instructions or position here? Is there any way that the Bureau could set foot and give the committees some clearer guidance on how these things can be carried out, so that we, the members of the Commission, too, can be understood and understood?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U59	Thank you. As you know, each committee itself organises its own work. So that's how some committee sees it. You see, here Peter Ernits came to the rescue and said, I understand that the members were present, but the guests participated online, a little bit of a hybrid[session]. But yes, we have discussed this in the body of elders and there was a clear understanding that neither the body of parents nor the Riigikogu can prescribe how committees organise their work forms: whether it is a contact [in form], whether it is, I don't know, on the Internet or whether it is a hybrid form. But what you said about the House went up to the Supreme Court and the Court made its decision. Now we will certainly follow this judgment, as is the case with the rule of law. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U60	Good manager! It was a pleasure to hear that Minister Sutt announced at 22.18 and Minister Liimets at 22.30 that they would not come. But I have now reviewed the minutes [of the hearing] which Hanno Pevkur led here, and all this time he was silent about the information that two ministers in a row have already said that they are asleep. Why is it that you don't share all the information with the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U61	Thank you. Nobody said they were asleep, of course. That's not what I said. And second of all, we don't have any fax machines on the table that come in and hop! It's popping out. These are e-mails sent by e-mail. I don't know exactly what time you had this discussion with Hanno Pevkur, or what time it was noticed when this [letter] came to the person's e-mail. It's not like we're always watching our e-mail. So, yes, these are the times, [when letters] they have arrived. I can't tell you what time it's been read. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U62	Thank you. I still come to this agenda and to § 53 (3). I read specifically the text of the section and the law. You read my comments and chose the appropriate section. I will then also read the comment of the same section and what you have failed to read, which can still be very unambiguously understood that these items are a priority and should be included as the first item on the agenda today. In particular: "According to paragraph 3 to be commented upon, the issues not discussed by the assembly during the previous working week must be put on the agenda of the new working week first. The issue of the agenda may not be discussed either when working time ends or when the debate is impossible (see § 73 IKTS) Due to the risk (In that case, it is because of this. A debate must also be taken into account when the debate is not being discussed. The provision to be commented on must ensure that the issues that have not been discussed, although they were on the agenda, are put on the agenda of the new working week as a priority and discussed this week."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U63	Thank you. What you read first, thank you for this clarification! I think that is the first wish to discuss them immediately: if they were not discussed, they would be on Monday next week. And then you read on this executive publication, I don't have it in front of me at the moment, and it ended when I'm not wrong to work during the week or the week. That's the way I know it's gonna be right now. I do not think that these points have been raised at the moment, even on Thursday, on the 10th working week of the VII session. The first days of the week, i.e. Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday, have been tried to discuss. I don't have a better answer. As I have told you, we have tried to do this in cooperation with the lead committees and ministries. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U64	Thank you, Mr President. I'm coming back to LAK again. When I pointed out the procedural moments on the basis of which it was not possible to change the time of the ELAK sitting, you nodded to me and I interpreted it in such a way that you would agree with my so-called conclusions. And then you suggested that this issue be resolved on the ground in ELAK. I must admit, indeed, I have tried to raise this issue there, but it has remained, well, a shouter in the desert. That's why I'm addressing you, dear George Ratas. You are the Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu and your task is to organise the work of the Riigikogu. I immensely appreciate your ability to lead and organise the work of the Riigikogu, with absolute neutrality to both the opposition and the coalition. I am absolutely sure that you also have the ability, the ability and the willingness to do in the Committee on European Union Affairs, a so-called small adjustment, so that things are followed. I am grateful in advance to you because I know you can handle this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U65	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, you have a question in what section?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U66	Oh! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U67	A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U68	Thank you! Those were praises for you and praises for what you've done. But now I have a request. Do you agree with the Chairman of the EUAK on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U69	Yeah, I'll talk to him. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U70	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened to these questions, answers and this debate for a long time. I still have that question. When the members of the government used the expression 'with regard to the change in the agenda' in their letter, where they explained their lack of expression, I have the question: how are we going to include this expression and the statement now? After all, it is known that the agenda will be changed on Monday, at the beginning of the working week, with a vote in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. It can't be changed by the members of the government at will. In other words, does the Board of the Riigikogu intend to take a very specific position on this? Do you think that otherwise there is a risk that we will have a precedent if the Reform Party does not currently comply with the law, and we will see in the future that the other ministers of all subsequent governments may continue to do the same, perhaps in the same way, to violate our Home and Working Procedures Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U71	Thank you. I'm trying to answer your question. I think that, with the reference to the change in the agenda, there is a temporal reference in this case. Whether [they] had other duties or not, I cannot say that. If a [some] member of the government cannot come, then you can always find a replacement. It is also a possibility for committees. Like I told you... I'm sorry, it was a procedural question for Helir-Valdor Seeder. Of course, this week we will discuss it more widely, just as Hanno Pevkur and Martin Helme here, through Martin Helme's mouth, discussed this matter at the Riigikogu Board meeting. This should be discussed and we will do so this week. Kert Kingo, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U72	Thank you, Mr President. You pointed out here that there was a delay in time. You've been Prime Minister yourself, and I've been in government too, and at least in our time, it was like the Minister's working days didn't end at 5:00 or 6:00. The minister's day lasted exactly as long as he had his duties. Similarly, as far as I am aware, at least I have not yet noticed that here on the agenda of the Riigikogu we would have certain times for the presentation of points, which the minister could expect, for example, the fourth point to be discussed at 15.17. Let me get this straight. Nothing's changed since then, or has anything changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U73	Thank you. You get it right. Aivar Chef, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U74	Thank you. I'd ask the other side. Last week, the Chair of the Economic Commission and a member of the Economic Commission gave up their presentation. Did this committee also send you a letter, just as ministers sent a letter to the Bureau, which is why they could not defend their draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U75	Thank you. We're talking about the week before last. As far as I am concerned, neither of them could defend their drafts because they did not come to the Riigikogu Chair and were legally impossible to discuss. What's the reason, I can't tell you. Aivar Chef, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U76	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. Why couldn't they come?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U77	I said, for what reason they didn't come, I don't know that. Dear colleagues, let us now begin the preparation of the voting on the agenda. Good colleagues, just a little observation, maybe things have evolved here, we're on the agenda right now. There is one explanation for the adoption of the agenda. The clarification is as follows: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to remove the first item from the agenda of the Tuesday session of this working week. With this amendment, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U78	The agenda for this week has been adopted with the result of 60 votes to 10 and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U79	So, we will continue to read 522 second reading of the draft law on mandatory liability insurance for health care service providers initiated by the Government of the Republic that was not in progress on Thursday of the previous working week. The debate on the draft was held in a very interesting place during the examination of the amendments. The Riigikogu has been able to vote through one amendment, and now we are at the next amendment. Amendment 2, [tabled] by the Committee on Social Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U80	I thought we had a second reading, but I guess we missed the speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U81	I have the information again that you were much faster: the speeches were made, the amendments were opened and Amendment 1 was revised. According to my information, you even voted on it. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U82	The question was that we were in the middle of this, and we did not get to the vote. And actually, there are, let's say, speeches on this matter. That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U83	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. I have more information. In addition to the speeches being held, the result of the vote on the first amendment was very powerful: by 27, no one opposed, no one was impartial. So let's try it again. Amendment 2, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, takes full account of the position of the commission. Amendment 3, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, takes full account of the position of the commission. Amendment 4, [tabled] by the Committee on Social Affairs, which is also the lead committee, takes full account of the position. Amendment 5, [tabled] by the lead committee, position: take full account. Amendment 6, [tabled] by the lead committee, position: take full account. Amendment 7 has been tabled by Mr Grünthal, the lead committee: to be disregarded. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U85	Got it. Let's start preparing the vote. I am voting on Amendment 7, tabled by Mr Grünthal, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U86	With the result 19, 47 against, no abstentions, the amendment was not supported. Amendment 8, tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 9, tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 10 has been tabled by Mr Grünthal, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U87	Thank you, good Chairman. Please put this amendment to the vote as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U88	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Good colleagues, can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote the position of the commission on Amendment 10 tabled by Mr Grünthal: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U89	With the result 19 against 46, no abstentions, the amendment was not supported. Amendment 11, tabled by Mr Grünthal, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U90	Thank you. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U91	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you! I shall put to the vote the position of the commission on Amendment 11, tabled by Mr Grünthal, not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U92	With the result of 17 votes to 48, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 12, tabled by Mr Grünthal, position of the commission: consider the substance. Extension: see Amendment 17. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U93	Thank you. I would also like to ask for a vote on this [amendment].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U94	Well, let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I am voting on the 12th amendment tabled by Mr Grünthal, the position of the commission is to take account of the substance. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U95	With the result of 17 votes to 48, no abstentions, the amendment was not supported. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the lead committee. I'm sorry! Jürgen Ligi, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U96	Yeah. Maybe you could tell the hall what happened now. If a person puts his or her proposal, which has been partially taken into account, will that part be lost? Was it his victory or his loss now what he achieved? [[There's a comment in the hall.]] How does [understand] this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U97	Thank you. I interpret it as follows: the result of this vote remains, as the lead committee said, perhaps the position of the commission was as follows: in substance, see Amendment 17. But we're still getting to 17, we're only 13. [amendment]. I don't know what's going to happen to 17, but I assume that's the proposal from the commission that he's going traditionally. So, Amendment 13, the position of the commission is to take full account. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U98	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U99	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U100	[[That's right.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U101	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 13, which has been tabled by the commission to take full account of the position. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U102	The proposal was supported by the result of 55 participants and no abstentions. Amendment 14, tabled by Mr Grünthal, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U103	Thank you, President-in-Office. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U104	Thank you. Let's do it. Can we go to the vote? Thank you! I shall put to the vote Amendment 14 tabled by Mr Grünthal, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U105	With the result of 19 votes to 48, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 15, tabled by the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. Amendment 16, tabled by Mr Grünthal, position of the commission: consider the substance. Once again, see Amendment 17. Amendment 17, [tabled] by the lead committee, to be fully taken into account. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U106	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U107	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 17, which has been tabled by the commission to take full account of the position. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U108	With the result of 63 votes against and no abstentions, the proposal was supported. Amendment 18, tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 19, tabled by Mr Grünthal, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U109	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U110	Thank you. Let's do it. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you! I shall put to the vote the position of the commission on Amendment 19, tabled by Mr Grünthal, not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U111	With the result of 17 votes to 48, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Dear colleagues, with this we have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading, but we have received a letter. In particular, the proposal to interrupt the second reading of draft 522 is proposed by the Isamaa Group, signed by Priit Sibul, Vice-Chairman of the Isamaa Group. Let us begin the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote the second reading of draft proposal 522 from the Isamaa Group. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U112	In favour of 7, 51 votes against, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Consequently, the position of the lead committee was still to conclude the second reading. The second reading of Bill 522 is closed and the first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U113	We will move to the second item on the agenda: Members of the Riigikogu Leo Kunnas, Alar Lanemani, Henn Põlleaasa, Kalle Grünthali, Paul Puustusmaa, Siim Pohlaku, Urmas Reitelmanni, Merry Aarti, Rene Koka, Reuben Kaalepi, Anti Polandmets and Mart Helme submitted an inquiry on 14 February 2022 to renew the foundations of security policy. Good fellows, may I have your attention, please? This inquiry is numbered 122. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, member of the Riigikogu Leo Kunnas, to introduce his inquiry to the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, "The Foundations of Estonian Security Policy," valid [document], was approved by decision of the Riigikogu in 2017. The security situation has significantly deteriorated in the meantime. We presented this [inquiry] on the 14th day and, as we know, we are living today on the 40th day after Russia's widespread aggression against Ukraine began. The basis of the security policy is being updated and the draft updated document should be submitted to the Riigikogu in May of this year, according to information from the State Chancellery. The role of the Riigikogu is not to be the rubber stamp of the government. Unfortunately, this was the case with the security policy part of the "Estonia 2035" strategy, which was confirmed by the Riigikogu in May last year as empty and telling, without taking into account the negative changes that occurred in the security environment in the meantime. In the previous government, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia tabled three amendments to bring the strategy "Estonia 2035" into line with the actual security situation. First of all, defence costs amount to at least 2.6% of GDP. Secondly, we create mine-watering, coastal defence and mid-shore air defence capabilities and complete the development of armoured maneuvering capabilities, create a tank unit, and create near-air defence capabilities in the Defence League, increase the ability to engage in night-time battles and electronic warfare, and implement technically innovative solutions, including drones and unmanned earth vehicles. Thirdly, we will create a crisis reserve for police and border guards and provide border guards with the necessary capabilities, preparedness and legal basis for military defence tasks in border areas. Despite the fact that there was a previous concentration of Russian troops near Ukraine's borders, the delegates of the current coalition voted down these constructive proposals without offering something better. The strategy "Estonia 2035" and "Basics of Estonian Security Policy" are known as the basis documents for the preparation of the National Defence Development Plan. The National Defence Development Plan 2022.2031 received a poor input from it, which led the Government of the Republic to approve it in December last year in a framework that foresaw only 2.0% of GDP for defence expenditure. Although this year's defence expenditure accounts for 2,31% of GDP, or EUR 749.6 million, for which we have also recognised the government, the reduction in the percentage of defence expenditure foreseen in the current "State Budget Strategy 2022 2025" to 2.14% of GDP in 2023, or EUR 727.8 million, and to 2,02% of GDP in 2024 and 2025, respectively, is EUR 719.3 and EUR 752.7 million. Thus, in January, the government's decision to allocate EUR 380 million to national defence over the next four years, i.e. 2022 to 2025, is largely a correction of the errors in previous decisions. No new capabilities were yet planned to be created and to increase the military defence force. They have come with another package of reinforcements that came in March and for which we have also recognised the government. In the current security crisis, it is not possible to put the budgetary balance above national defence. Lithuania and Poland announced last year their intention to raise defence costs to 2.5% of GDP. Poland will now raise them to 3%, which is more recent information, and Latvia will do the same in January of this year. Consequently, we have seven questions in total. Of course, the second strengthening package has now come up and positive steps have been seen, but we would still like to hear what happens to the foundations of security policy. When will this [document] come, and what will it record? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U115	I ask the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas of the Riigikogu to answer the question, which is number 122. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U116	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! First of all, we really must only agree that Russia's war in Ukraine has created a completely new security situation, both in Europe and in the Baltic Sea region more strictly. Russia's goal and interest is to restore spheres of influence in Europe. What is happening in Ukraine shows that Russia is using military force to do this without choosing the means. The war is going on in Ukraine and we do not know exactly how long it will last and how it will end. As the representative of the heirs said earlier, much has changed since the 14th of February, the day of the questioning, and the 4th of April, where we are today. That is why we have also paused the renewal of the foundations of security policy. We will continue this work as soon as the situation is clearer. At present, our efforts are aimed at maximum support for Ukraine, increasing the price of Russian military aggression and rapidly closing Estonia's broad national defence capability gaps. Indeed, it is now being paused precisely because so much is changing. I very much agree with the inquisitives that the foundations of security policy need to keep up with time in a situation where the security situation has completely changed. But now to specific questions. The first question: "Is the government prepared to follow the example of Poland, Lithuania and Latvia and to define in the new security policy the percentage of Estonian defence spending at 2.5% of GDP or above? " It is a pleasure to note that all countries in the region have been forced by a new security situation to review their defence costs. In addition to us, defence costs are rising in Latvia, Lithuania, Poland. As you said yourself, this year we have already done this twice: after the decisions of 20 January and 24 March, defence expenditure is above 2.5% of gross domestic product. We did so in the light of the changed security situation. But fixing the level of defence expenditure on the basis of security policy will be decided when we discuss the draft of this document at government level. Second, "Is the government prepared to define a fixed percentage in the new security policy foundations? Gross domestic product also for the development of broad-based or non-military national defence? How much could this percentage be [perhaps]? " Non-military national defence is also extremely important, as Estonia must be protected from both conventional and non-conventional measures. In the context of this crisis, we allocated 40 million in January to the non-military development of a wide range of national defence. These are secure functional communication solutions with Estonian foreign offices, population protection, internal security. In addition, on 24 March, we made a decision to provide EUR 86 million in additional financing for internal security activities, about half of which are for internal security and protection of the population, and the other half for the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine for war refugees. Exceptionally, we plan to finance non-military development of a wide range of national defence capabilities in other areas of government as well. More detailed amounts will be announced when the Government of the Republic sends an additional budget to the Riigikogu in the coming weeks. All these decisions will bring extraordinary money to national defence, i.e. military and non-military defence, with a total of nearly EUR 1 billion over the next year. But once again, the wording of the document on the basis of the security policy will be decided by the government when the draft document comes back to the government, taking into account the lessons that we will learn during this crisis. The third question: "What missing military defence capabilities do the government consider to be a priority? What are we going to do to fill these power gaps? " The government has allocated additional money to all priority axes, also taking into account the experience of Ukraine. First, anti-aircraft: short-range anti-aircraft systems, missiles. Anti-tank launchers, missiles. Land Defence: We will strengthen the defence based on the Defence League, taking advantage of the wish of Estonian citizens to contribute further to national defence. Fourthly, indirect fire: we increase the number of self-propelled cannons K9, we also procure multiple rocket launchers. Fifthly, situational awareness: increasing the capabilities of the Defence Forces to be aware of the situation. Sixthly, the presence of the allies: additional infrastructure developments for the reception of the Allied forces in both Tapa and Ämar. In addition, the government considers it necessary to develop medium-term anti-aircraft. For this purpose, the Department of Defense will hold consultations with the allies, and then we will proceed. A mid-range anti-aircraft procurement plan shall be submitted to the government within four months. But the final decisions [will be] in the course of the country's budgetary strategy [to be made]. Fourthly, "What broad-based national defence developments and capabilities developments do the government consider to be the most important? What are we going to do here? " We attach importance to the protection of the population, to the ability to respond to military threats. We also support the crisis capacity of local authorities. These areas will also receive significant exceptional funding in the coming years. We also consider border security and police response capacity to be important. We also consider cyber defence, strategic communication and a number of other areas that will receive additional attention in the budget to be important. Fifthly, does the government consider the protection of Ida-Viru County to be its political priority? If so, would it not be reasonable to fix this on the basis of security policy? " It is important for Estonia to protect the entire territory. Social cohesion, the regional development of society, is also an important component of the current, sixth security policy. These terms, in turn, relate to education, social information and many other areas which are also covered by the foundations of security policy. Neither the current nor the modernised Security Policy base document contains a separate list of different regions, but a review of the policy in a cross-cutting manner. Sixth: "Great-Tallinn space is concentrated in Estonia's management, a large part of the state's economy and almost half the population. Does the government consider the protection of the Estonian capital from land, air and sea to be its political priority? If so, would it not be reasonable to fix this on the basis of security policy? " The simple answer is yes, it must. But the longer answer is that we follow the principle in Estonia's security policy that all Estonia must be equally protected by territory and by people living here. Seventhly, how does the government intend to cooperate with the opposition in developing the new foundations of security policy? " Cooperation in drawing up the foundations of security policy is carried out in the Riigikogu, both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on National Defence, including representatives of the opposition. Representatives of the opposition parties in Urmas Reinsalu and Leo Kunna also participated in seminars on the basis of security policy on 17 November and 17 December 2021. The State Chancellery has also introduced the process of renewing the foundations of security policy to both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the National Defence Committee. But in any case, all good suggestions are welcome. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U117	Thank you. You have questions too. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I've tried repeatedly and repeatedly to explain one problem. This is about the power gap, training people in border guard services on the side of the armed forces. In fact, on the border, we have people who do not have military training, but when we look at the current experience of Ukraine, it is those parts of the border forces who have first received these blows and are fighting very professionally and well. We don't have that capability on the border guards, and it went [miss] when the border guards were brought under the police. I also made an appeal to the National Defence Commission. The National Defence Committee has realised that it is actually right that this military training must be restored on the border guard side. But I understand the Ministry of the Interior doesn't have the resources and the desire because it hasn't been viewed that way. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But the fleet will be transferred to the Defence Forces. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] One way is to move the green border to the border guard's Defence Forces, then it's settled.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U119	Good questioner, I'm sorry! Twenty-four seconds is over. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U120	Thank you. You have really raised this issue repeatedly, just as your penguin has repeatedly raised it. That's what I've been asking. At the moment, the border guards really have their own tasks, the Defence Forces have their own tasks. Therefore, they are not directly linked to what they have previously been, but at the same time the border can be protected in the way it is currently organised. So I think that this issue that you are raising may be raised again if we discuss the foundations of security policy again. So far, when all kinds of exercises have been together, border guards and the Defence Forces have worked very well together, each of them has had a role to play. But I understand that you are directing this question to a completely different place. So when discussing the foundations of security policy, as it also needs to be discussed in the Riigikogu, this issue can be looked at again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U121	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U122	Prime Minister! As you know, Ukraine is currently fighting not only for its independence, but for the freedom and security of the whole of Europe, including Estonia. You yourself said today that it is in Estonia's interest to provide maximum support for Ukraine. That certainly includes moral support. Ukraine has repeatedly asked the European Union and NATO to keep the doors open for it. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On March, the Riigikogu unanimously adopted a request to all the parliaments of the European Union for Ukraine to be granted candidate status in the European Union and a roadmap to NATO. You also said on 4 March that this status as a candidate country for membership of the European Union must be granted to Ukraine. After that, you met repeatedly... I see, George, I'm about to finish.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U123	Yes, please, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U124	You repeatedly attended meetings of NATO and the European Union and did not discuss this issue. When you were asked why this was not done, you said that no one raised this question. That's when I ask...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U125	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U126	Exactly what you said. The question is: why did you not raise this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U127	I have always raised this issue. You're probably putting something together right now. Yes, the NATO Summit does not, of course, raise the issue of the status of the candidate country for membership of the European Union, because it is neither this forum nor this table. The Council has had very long debates on this. In Versailles, at four o'clock in the morning, the dispute concerning the same candidate country was closed. The last Council, since Versailles had been debating it for so long, agreed that the wording agreed in Versailles would be taken, that we would not reopen it, because everyone was in exactly the same position and we would not have reached anywhere, another place than where we had arrived. I have always stood for Ukraine to become a candidate country in all possible places, and I will continue to do so. But there are 27 Member States around the table and some have very clear opposition. Even some countries that have even had referendums on the ratification of the Association Agreement, and that is why they find it difficult to support it politically. Politics, especially at the Council, also have the art of compromises. So what we agreed on in Versailles remained valid, and that was the best result we got. Of course, we can always push this issue forward. My sense, too, is that also in those Member States that have been opposed, public opinion is actually changing, and this changes the views of politicians. So maybe there'll be more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U128	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! You replied that the drafting of the new foundations of security policy has now been paused. So I'd ask you how long this break is meant to be. What is the time frame when you intend to come to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U130	Yeah. Of course, one side is that we are looking at how and how quickly things change in Ukraine or whether something is being agreed there and this war is coming to an end, because then a completely new security situation has arisen. But as of now, there's a plan to be here this year. I don't think this war will end in a few weeks or a few months. I'm sure it'll clear up a picture for us. This will certainly be clarified in June when there is a NATO summit in Madrid, where important decisions should be taken, and it will also be clarified at European Union level in the sense of attitudes that have a direct impact on our security. So, yes, "in this year" is the perspective that could be allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U131	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U132	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! You said, and this has also been communicated to the public in the past, that it is indeed the intention of the government to allocate additional resources from the state budget for security investments and security needs. This should all increase security costs to about 2.5% of GDP. My question in this respect is short: do you think this is enough and if it is not enough, how many should actually increase them to be sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U133	Thank you. For all areas, it is not enough. But this is the amount of money, the amount of state budget we have to deal with. Of course, we are taking additional loans, which we can use for investments, but it cannot be used to cover running costs. So actually, for any area, if you ask whether it is sufficient or not, you can always say that it is not enough. However, I think that in the current situation, given our possibilities, we have nevertheless made very good decisions to invest further in national defence, and we will proceed with these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U134	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I'd like to ask you a little bit about another area. Our security situation is really fragile right now, and we need to know what's going on behind us. As a result, I ask: do we know how many members of gun clubs we have trained in the Russian Federation military and live in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U136	Thank you. I'm sure we have that knowledge, but I don't have that knowledge here with me right now. You can ask for more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U137	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U138	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! I'd like to ask you about the meeting in Madrid. The rhetoric of the Russians is becoming more and more insane and angry. They're basically not fighting rhetorically with Ukraine, they're fighting NATO, and they're fighting the United States. We didn't get an additional contingent. If we do not get additional troops to Estonia after the Madrid decisions in June, what is Estonia's plan? So what are we gonna do? What's Plan B? Even Khodorkovsky, by the way, just said in London that the Baltic States are next when NATO is the target.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U139	Thank you. We've been talking about strengthening the east wing all along. What is very important to us is that we move from deterrence to protection. For us, too, it is important that all possible capabilities and additional forces are rapidly moving. From NATO's point of view, the three Baltic States are one region. So we need to look at all these, the three Baltic States and also Poland together, so that the troops there can be moved quickly. For us, it would be important for us to still have a division at NATO level, which would be in combat capacity. That means he's got all kinds of power development to fight back right now. That's what we're fighting for right now. These final decisions really need to be seen as a whole. The Secretary-General of NATO is also in the same boat as us. But right now, it's from the military side that generals, or SACEUR, are making these plans regarding the defense. I also want to say that more troops have come here: more troops came from the Danes, more troops came from the British. Of course, if we put them in comparison with the Russian troops, it is not exactly the same personal composition, but NATO forces will certainly be able to overcome the Russian troops in quality. So for us, it is [important] that we are ready to strike right back. Alongside, in addition to the fact that we are working to strengthen NATO's collective defence, we are also significantly strengthening Estonia's own defence capabilities. In our development, but in fact in strengthening the Defence League, we have decided to put additional money in order to ensure that all people who have now turned themselves in to defend Estonia in any case should not do so with their bare hands. These two things go together: on the one hand, strengthening self-protection and, on the other hand, strengthening collective protection. But the final decisions should be made in Madrid.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U140	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U141	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! As we know, cooperation with Finland has been a major part of Estonia's national defence, both historically and geographically, especially as regards the protection of Estonia by the sea. It is a very important development that Finland is having discussions about joining NATO. At the same time, we know that joining NATO could still be a long process. In Finland, this is likely to require a referendum, several political decisions. In this situation, where we are quite uncertain about the future of security policy and we do not know when an attack from the east, whether in Estonia or in Finland, will Estonia have launched bilateral consultations with Finland in order to discuss what cooperation could be possible in the security of our two countries in the event of a possible attack?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U142	Thank you. Not only with Finland, but also with Sweden, but also with Denmark, the Netherlands, Great Britain, this is the JEF format, which includes countries that are not in NATO. We had this debate in London just to go on with it. These are also practical steps, practical training, training of these forces. Of course, with Finland, we communicate closely. As regards Finland's accession to NATO, I find it very welcome that they have these discussions. I hope that Finland will also make the relevant decisions. If Finland decides to do so, to join NATO, then of course we are the biggest supporters of NATO so that they can have this accession. They want to do it with Sweden. For us, all forms of cooperation are important; we are in all forms of cooperation, precisely so that, in any case, our protection will be adequately guaranteed in cooperation with our friends and allies if the need arises.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U143	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Due to the war started by Russia against Ukraine, it is also appropriate for us to ask whether it is known in Estonia how many of the Russian Federation's citizens who have a permanent residence permit in Estonia and live here have completed military service in Russia over the last 30 years and how many of these in Pihkva region. Do we not have such an overview? I don't think you really know. But could that number be hundreds, thousands, or tens of thousands?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U145	Thank you. Unfortunately, I owe you an answer right now. I don't have any of those materials. I'll, in short, check it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U146	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U147	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Did I understand correctly your answer that the second-stage money for defence, that is, the 80 million that goes to the Ministry of the Interior, half or 40 million will be spent on dealing with war refugees and covering the costs associated with it? How does this specifically relate to defence costs? I understand that this money is still earmarked for us to raise and to increase our defence capabilities with this money. Should not all the costs associated with war refugees and these costs be financed from other sources rather than from enhancing defence capabilities and filling power gaps?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U148	Thank you. You're gonna get in the way of these war refugees all the time. The fact is, war refugees go along with this war, and they're victims of war. As a result, we also have war refugees in a changed security situation, whom we must help. We have to deal with this. In order for us to be able to help them, we must also allocate money for this. But this $86 million, which has gone to the Home Office or what this proposal is, is for the protection of the population. We have refugee expenditure in various areas, including the Ministry of the Interior, but also the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry of Education, too, because many children have come. With regard to these expenditures, among other things, we come up with an additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U149	A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U150	I would still ask the President of the sitting to make a note to the rapporteur that he should not make an assessment here or jump to the questioner. I specifically asked about the matter, about how the Prime Minister answered, but he jumped into my nose that I would get someone in my way. No, no one gets in my way. Make a note that he should answer the questions, not the racus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U151	Thank you. Yes, we all respect each other. I agree that if asked, you have to answer. Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! We are talking about the foundations of security policy and its renewal, especially in this situation. We know that security policy is a broad issue. We have internal security here, we have foreign security there, then the army, the army, the police, the kapo, of course, everything. But there are also many other factors, such as socio-economic factors. It is no secret that tens of thousands of Russian citizens live among us in the Republic of Estonia, whose attitude to what is happening is, as we know, quite critical, the attitude towards us, Western Europe and also the European Union, and they are very supportive of the fascist Russian regime. At the same time, we have voters, they take part in the presidential elections with indirect possibilities, even their children are voters. They make millions here, and they're here for our comfortable lives. But I ask in this way whether the government is planning any specific socio-economic measures to manage the opportunities for Russian citizens here to happily influence us negatively.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U153	Thank you. Again, I don't have any specific numbers with me, but I remember that there are 340000 Estonians speaking Russian as their native language, 60,000 of them, and something I might be wrong with numbers, just in case after I check it out, it's kind of a grey passport, and it's also Russian citizens. Russian citizens in Estonia cannot choose, Estonian citizens can choose. In local elections, residents, i.e. non-citizens, can choose from local elections. But they can't choose the Riigikogu. I would like to say that the Russian [Estonians] are not a homogeneous group in any way, just as Estonians are not a homogeneous group. Your voters and our voters, for example, do not overlap; they are not people with the same views, so that they are all Estonians. Therefore, the Russian-speaking people should not be committed to all of us here either, that they are certainly all acting in the same way and that everyone is supporting this regime. Of course, the changed situation has brought us completely new challenges. But research we do every month just to understand what different social groups think, including the Russian-speaking population. We'll keep an eye on it where this thing's headed. But yes, I'd like to say it's not a homogeneous group. Just as there are people among Estonians, you probably know those who think that everything that is going on in Ukraine is wrong, in fact it is not, the Ukrainians are organising themselves, it is an information operation and so on. So I wouldn't put everyone together.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U154	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U155	Thank you. Well, I'd like to make a few comments on the previous answer. Firstly, we know about the Russian State Duma and the presidential elections that 90% and more still choose Putin and United Russia. We all know that. It's pretty disturbing. The second thing is that we do not know how many Estonians are there who approve of the ugly things that are happening in Ukraine, because we do not conduct such surveys. If you have this information to give us, please, we are very grateful. But the question is that we are now seeing Russia legalise the results of its previous war, the Georgian war, against the background of Ukraine's events. The process of formal and final unification of South Ossetia and Abkhazia with the Russian Federation has been actively initiated. Does the Estonian Government have any views on this, do we protest, are we vigorously mobilising Western unity, so that these steps will not be carried out in Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U156	Thank you. We have always supported the territorial integrity of Georgia or Georgia and these views have not changed in any way. These are the views we have put forward everywhere, all about Moldova, Ukraine, Georgia. Nothing has changed here, and this is the attitude we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U157	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! You used the term "NATO's Secretary General is on the same boat with us." Since the live broadcast of this sitting is also being monitored outside the Chamber, it is being watched by people who care about and are interested in the security and defence capabilities of our country, please explain in more detail. What exactly does this mean by saying that the Secretary-General of NATO is in the same boat as us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U159	Thank you. This means that the Secretary-General of NATO agrees that the east wing must be strengthened, including the protection of the Baltic States. That's what it means.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U160	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! With these additional National Defence Development Plan packages, these additional capabilities, the government is trying to make decisions in the field of national defence more realistic. For let us admit, it is not a good sign that a ten-year plan must have several improvements within three months. My question is focused on this lesson. When we are talking about the foundations of security policy, and also about the following national defence decisions, can you say how you intend to ensure that this reality is [conform] already in these plans, decisions and plans, so that we do not have to complete things quickly and remake things?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U162	Thank you. Yes, on the one hand, I agree with you when you say that it is not a good sign that two improvements will have to be made in three years. These two additions have been made by us who have been in government for only a year. Really, that's not a good sign. But I think it's a good thing that we at least make those decisions. As I said at the beginning, the foundations of security policy we paused for this very reason, so that all these things could be reviewed in a changed security situation, so that there really was nothing to be overlooked and that there should be no constant correction of errors.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U163	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Prime Minister! Here's my question. More than 4000 Russian military pensioners live in Estonia. They are generally older people and hopefully do not pose a significant security threat. But they are paid Russian military pension from the Russian Federation and, as of 2011, Estonian pension will also be paid. The question now is this: would it not be right, in a new situation where the Russian army is carrying out aggression and we also need budgetary resources elsewhere, to stop paying the Estonian pension to these Russian military pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U165	Thank you. Russian military pensioners receive their pension from Russia. After all, we have agreements on how our people, who have earned their years in Estonia but who spend their retirement elsewhere, will receive this money, and the other way around will be the same. As regards the Estonian pension, all people living in Estonia have the same rights. They are not limited in any way, but they are based on the fact that the people of Estonia have one right. An Estonian citizen simply has the additional right to choose. But the kind of plan to take out pensions from these pensioners when they live here isn't right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U166	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U167	Good manager! Prime Minister! It's like talking about Ida-Virumaa. I have looked a little around the world at the Russian population and these percentages in both Ukraine and other contexts. I am now looking at the fact that we are very much in this group, which may give rise to appetites: 97% in Crimea, 93% in Donetsk, 89% in Luhansk, 82% in Ida-Viru County. This picture goes well together with Transnistria and the many other territories you talked about. How seriously have you looked at the possible formation of the People's Republic of Ida-Viru County, which in the current war situation in Ukraine has been planned in a number of so-called Novorossija areas, where the percentage of the Russian population is lower or similar?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U168	Thank you. First of all, Russian-speaking residents are not a homogeneous group. Secondly, in Ida-Virumaa, on the contrary, those people who are nosey against Russia see how much worse life is in Russia, and do not want any release. Thirdly, according to surveys, a large part of the Russian-speaking population knows the emotional connection with Estonia in particular. They consider Estonia their home and no one wants war in their courtyard. Of course, we're constantly monitoring it, but it's just that the difference in living standards is so great. Those who constantly cross the border see the situation on the side of Russia and do not want this standard [for themselves].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U169	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Security policy is known to be based on defence costs, i.e. financial resources. I'm sure we agree here. The question is that the Estonian Government gave the Estonian Red Cross 3 million euros to help Ukraine, but there have been signals that the red cross has carried 2 million instead to the headquarters of the [International] Red Cross in Canada. Why was this done, why could the 2 million that went to the head office not have been used to increase Estonia's defence costs instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U171	Thank you. Humanitarian aid for this region is also very important for people to succeed. The red cross is one of the humanitarian organisations. The way they use that money, you have to ask them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U172	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U173	Thank you. A very commendable statement that all of Estonia must be protected, right, not just in Suur-Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa. But unfortunately, what is now planned is not enough for the air protection of the midlands to protect Estonia as a whole, because more than one battalion is needed. When you listed those power gaps that will be eliminated, you didn't mention the armoured capabilities. It is clear that if we really want to be protected, we must, unfortunately, spend more. Has the government discussed taking out a defense loan after all? In times past, your government has been, well, how to say, very panicked against it. But have you now come to the conclusion that this should be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U174	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! Perhaps I will enlighten you that, at least in the state budget, loans are simply taken, no national defence loans are taken. The loan will be taken to cover needs that cannot be covered by the funds available. Of course, if there are no funds, then you have to borrow. We have never opposed that. There's no such thing as a defense loan. First. Secondly, you mentioned armoring, you indicated that it would not be done. In the army, the second infantry crew will be transferred to the armored vehicles, so that we will increase the driving power and build various anti-tank capabilities, including medium-range anti-tank weapons for [coming] infantry units, as well as retrofitting combat vehicles. So these expenses we do what needs to be done. We base our decisions on defence experts from both the Defence Forces and the Defence League. These decisions are in line with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U175	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U176	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You were just talking about the border guard and the capability of the border guard. Yeah, just over ten years ago, we still had a military border guard and border defence capabilities. Unfortunately, your predecessors' colleagues destroyed the military border guard and made it a police matter. According to international law, police can't fight another army during the war, he goes to jail like a criminal, but not like a prisoner of war. So you've destroyed a pretty big military defense section.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U177	Thank you. Yes, of course, very big words that we have destroyed. We have a border defence capability. But I've heard your reproach and your benchmate's accusations the same way. In any case, if you ask for further information, there is any kind of border control capability. A good example is that we have relatively quickly restored border control, which Latvia and Lithuania do not have in relation to war refugees. So this opportunity and this ability are absolutely there. But yes, I've heard those reproaches.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U178	Good Prime Minister, no further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. First Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U179	I'm gonna ask for three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U180	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! This time framework, which you have now chosen, is reasonable in the sense that, towards the end of the year, we are certainly wiser in two things: first, whether Sweden and Finland are reaching a decision or an approach towards NATO, or closer bilateral relations with the United States, or what different options are directly affecting the framework of our security policy, and similarly we are probably smarter in what then our allies place here for us. If we get smarter in these things, it'll be easier for us to move on. But the obvious goal is that we still have a nice overhaul of the foundations of security policy during its membership. Now I'm gonna look at some details in a row. Let's look at the percentage of defense costs next. In fact, the two strengthening packages that you have made, the first 380 million and the second 562 million, amount to 942 million. If the medieval anti-aircraft package comes up again in the summer, that's 300-350 million, that's 1.3 billion, which goes into the next RES. Here are the Ministry's estimates, which are still without this third package, without a specific amount: in fact, defence costs would already increase in 2023, we do not know exactly about GDP to some 2,78% and in 2024 to as much as 2,97%. If this third package comes up again, they will grow by over 3%. It is also probably reasonable for us to boldly say now, like Poland, that yes, in the next four years we will probably raise them to 3%, and probably in the future, we will see whether we have 2.5%. After all, we are also going to have to bear the costs of maintaining these new abilities. Clearly, this 2% frame won't be able to go back in the next few decades. We could be more bold about communicating it. At the moment, we could boldly say that the military forces of war are increasing quite decisively. There will be at least 12,500 people to increase defense, which means that instead of the 26000 people, we will have a defense force with a size class of 40,000 or a little less. You could set that number and say it too. It is good to know our own people, and it also has a clear deterrent to Russia and an information factor to our allies. Perhaps one of the important problems in Ukraine was that they could not convince Putin, Shoigu and the Russian General Staff that it would not be worth the attack. We may believe that we have good defense, but if they don't believe in it on the east side, it won't help on its own. We could be more bold about communicating it. We were talking about power developments. In this sense, anti-aircraft in the Midlands is important that, if the allies are actually bringing us something, they focus primarily on protecting their units. Maybe they don't have a lot of resources to protect our big cities, for example. The question of this Suur-Tallinn space I specifically pointed out is that Tallinn is like Mariupol, and it is also possible to bombard him either from the air or if the enemy's jet artillery gets closer than 90 kilometres. In Ukraine, we can see that these cities, which are more than 90 kilometres away, have been hit by individual precision fires, and they are able to escape. In the case of Tallinn, this question is quite decisive in the sense that mid-earth anti-aircraft is needed. It goes to the size class about 350 million if you make a battalion. But if you add to the long-range anti-aircraft battery, which the manager has also talked about, it is already a billion-class, but it is a completely new level of capability in itself. The shooting distance and height are, of course, immeasurably higher, but also the price class is much higher. We should all understand the same thing we're talking about, so we don't confuse these things here. Perhaps from a broad-based defence, a few keywords about what's left of the eye. The Minister of the Interior visited our committee last week in the Riigikogu, and what did I notice? There are indeed a number of important steps in the area of public protection: informing the population, i.e. sirens in large cities, using public buildings as shelters, fixing and setting it all up. There's a lot of work planned out there this year. But what's the problem? For example, changing construction laws is not a line of the Ministry of the Interior, it is a line of MKM. However, we need to oblige construction companies that are developing new developments and building apartments. Finland has a standard of 1100 square meters, in which case a shelter must also be built, which of course makes it perhaps 10% more expensive for the buyer of the apartment, but it will not change if it is not fixed in any way. We also have many Soviet shelters and basements. It is easy to do here: housing associations should also be obliged to make their own arrangements at the level of the law. I'm on the board of my own building management, and we've been fixing the basement of our old republican house a long time ago. But it doesn't happen unless these obligations are imposed by law. It caught my eye. Fuels remain in the eye of these recent developments. We still have half the fuel supply outside the country. We also see that fuel supplies are the first to be burned by both sides in order to take away opportunities from the other. We need fuel here for our troops, allied forces, and the population. Still consider keeping some of the fuel supplies underground. It could get a little more expensive. We have such fuel storage facilities, but then, of course, a reasonable compromise should be reached with the owner so that there is no need to charge any soul price. Of course, it's gonna be more expensive, but we're just seeing developments in the last few weeks. Every day we learn something from Ukraine, we see something new, for example, that the fuel supply that is in storage is not so much help. A lot more could be said, but in conclusion, yes, we clearly have progress, but this progress could also be boldly communicated: the military forces of war are increasing so much, the defence costs are rising so much. They will, we could say it straight and clear. I may have done a little bit of that for you here at the remote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U182	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! Today we are in a situation where the security situation has completely changed because of the war in Ukraine or because of its escalation. What was sufficient or even exemplary yesterday is either inadequate or rather unsatisfactory today. In this sense, I would now focus on what this sufficient level of national defence is and where we should end up on the basis of our security policy. Yeah, it's true, even when I asked you, if you didn't answer my question, you slipped past the answer fairly elegantly, not even hinted at the RES and that you could consider it in the second half of the year. A good colleague in Leo Kunnas has now opened some discussions that we have held in the Committee on National Defence, where various ministers and the Commander of the Defence Forces have participated. I would not look at the issue more broadly, but focus on this aspect of funding, without calling into question the planners of the Defence Forces. I am certainly not going to tell their playground exactly how much something should be anywhere, where a unit should be located and what they should use exactly to protect Estonia. It's a military property, and I'm not into that playground right now. Indeed, I am of the opinion that the Riigikogu should still give wider objectives here. Well, I guess we'll get to that if we start discussing the foundations of security policy. The subject of defence investments is, of course, protected by state secrets and it is not possible to talk about everything in this speech chair. But it's meant to be, and I suppose we can talk in more detail in these rooms than we need. But really, good colleague Leo here has already said where we could get to in the context of gross domestic product, at 3%, and that if we also seized mid-earth air control, all of this would amount to roughly EUR 1.3 billion in investment. I would say that it is obviously not enough in today's security situation. Looking at what has happened in Ukraine and assessing how Russia has behaved, our step must obviously be longer. Just one example here: we have pushed into the autumn discussions whether we will solve our midland air control with the help of [need] allies or whether we will have to make this investment ourselves. It shows in a way too low ambition. Instead, in the case of long-distance anti-aircraft, we could raise [the question] and say that mid-range anti-aircraft we will in any case do and additional air security... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U184	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U185	...we provide additional air protection on a long-range anti-aircraft basis. Our ambition must be greater in today's security situation. When speaking with national defence experts, [it has been shown that] this 1.3 billion is, of course, a very, very decent step forward compared to yesterday, but in fact this step should reach 2 to 2.5 billion, because we are not covering all the needs now, even if we take NATO by standards, even perhaps in view of different capabilities. So we have done well, but if, in this situation where we are today, we want to protect our country and our people, we need to be much better at developing our defence capabilities. Finally. We do not have time to wait with this discussion; we rather have to do this debate faster and, if necessary, these decisions too, say, in this sense, to specify that, if there is any further capacity, we will come to this once again. But to push into autumn, for example, the same medium-range anti-aircraft theme... Our Defense Department officials, our Defence Force leaders, are competent enough, and they're not exactly on the loose today, and they're not missing plans so they can't decide and they need a very, very long time to analyze. We also have to make our decisions here in due course. Russia does not ask us whether we have time or not, but we simply need to be ready by the time there are some crazy thoughts. Of course, we should try to discourage them first, but on the other hand, we still have to be able to protect our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U186	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U187	Good manager! Prime Minister! I'm not a warrior, and Leo's already turned down a lot. But the last month has chained me, just like the endgame of the war in Afghanistan, the subject of war, all nights, or at least most of them, it takes to monitor and analyse the front reports. This also applies to Mariupoli, which is a city the size of Tallinn and, by the way, very similar to the composition of the population. There are as many Ukrainians as there are Estonians here, both cities are still by the sea. We don't have the AzovstaI factory complex where Azov's troops are supposed to be located right now. But here are these parallels. One question was about Ida-Viru County, to which the Prime Minister replied. I'm glad it's okay. But on that note, a viewer who watches us sent me a message and said that there are also very many Russians in Mariupoli, and neither do they want to go to Russia. And yet. So in any case, it's worth paying attention. We met a couple of people from the Ukrainian government on the Special Budget Committee this morning, and they were also from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They were pretty brittle. It was clear that there was a war going on, and the question was what Estonia could give to Ukraine. Of course, we weren't talking about armor, and I'm not going to talk about it here either, but it's as important as cannons, shells, bullet jackets and everything else is the fuel with which the war vehicles are moving, the water people are drinking, and the food that will last a little longer. People are hungry and thirsty, 10 million of them are according to representatives of the Ukrainian government this morning. They said that help us and help Europe, saying that 15,000 tons of food a day would be needed. 15,000 tons was a deficit this morning. And 200,000 tons of diesel, that's for one month. That's what they need, this morning's status. What they said was that the countries of the European Union could each have their own so-called shephlusoblast, who would be [sold] because the supply, as I understand it, does not go best and most coordinatedly. I also heard, I don't know, maybe the Prime Minister knows that our friendship blobs are the Zhötomyr. Maybe not all people know it, I didn't know it. It is a region with just over 1 million inhabitants on the border with Belarus. I don't know how far this thing is with Estonian friendship. But the representatives of the Ukrainian Government have stressed that this is a good place, and I will take this opportunity to tell the Prime Minister that the European Union should coordinate this aid more. As I understand it, this assistance is not very well coordinated. For example, Ukraine would actually need 0.25% of the European Union's fuel supply. 0.25%! But it's not like it's fixed how it's gonna come. The same applies to food and water resources. Simple things. But yes, the most important thing is... I can't tell you what's most important. It's important to resist. The most important thing, of course, is to have a mind, not to give up. But as important as shells and vests is that you have to eat, drink, and ammo naturally and that the machines of war move. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] These are the moments I wanted to draw attention to.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U188	Mr. Ernits, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U189	Yeah, I'd like a few minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U190	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U191	Looking at this map at its own time as a boy, I loved to show pictures, you're looking in the darkroom at how the picture is coming at one point [paper], I've been looking with fear at what's going on in Ukraine. The same picture, this picture of Novorossija, right there at the Black Sea, starts from Donetsk and Lugansk, Herson, Nikolayev, Odessa. This picture has come out more and more. And that's where Moldavian's little strip is already waiting to join Russia. It's a scary picture coming out of there. If you come back here to our Tanuma, Ida-Virumaa, I repeat, our percentages are very similar. Indeed, we have a higher standard of living than many of the regions to which the current Russian leadership has decided to intervene under the noble sign of helping compatriots. So, in any case, I want strength for the government at this difficult time, and I also took the opportunity to express directly the request of several high government officials in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U192	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U193	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people! The foundations of security policy should also address an important resource that cannot be very much borrowed. It's a human resource. Strangely, people call me and write: "What can I do? "We have left all this on the Defence League, but whether or not all these programs or events describing the situation in Ukraine could open a completely different format: "What can I personally do?" We have too few young people organized. I would first like to list perhaps Boy Scouts: Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Young Eagles, Daughters of Homes. These are youth organisations, but there are few. I'd read a bunch of student corporations here. I think we're pretty good at motorbike clubs, too. Cooperation with them was actually quite successful in Tartu, and I think in other places. A good active man is a defence ally, an assistant police officer, a volunteer savior, he's still riding a motorcycle and maybe he's playing football. I don't know what he's doing. Hando Runnel has said: "Whoever wants war is insane. Whoever hopes for peace is stupid. " I'm not saying we're one or the other, but the idea that organized people are the most important. We don't have to be ashamed of our neighbor talking all the time. Here are perhaps a few thoughts that I have introduced in a longer or more general way. We could look at this place in the Defence League Act, where we're talking about the exclusion of people. I'm sure I'm thinking that if a person at his birthday in 1993 ran a crack against a riffle of his own wooden ceiling, he'd commit a violation, then he'd still have his mind. He may not be the one today who can make the jumps, okay, but he'll find a place. I, too, have completed higher national defence courses. There are always good and interesting, bright people, everyone has a mad will to do something. The women are somehow in the background. They may feel that this isn't home security. But I've encouraged you. We have a cyber defence unit. We have young people who can act now. Once upon a time, I started a project called Space Cowboy, just to find out the brightest young people who have the ability to get involved to some extent. Perhaps the government will have the opportunity to review and re-engage those people who have been through the Defence League and who are not the biggest criminals, their plights, or what has been there since the boyhood. It's the most important thing for a person to feel involved. I've been talking to my peers. They all talk in the kitchen, still when there's a bottle next to that, oh, where in my time I put the kalašnikov together so quickly and quickly. I'm telling you, but today it's a whole lot of other guns. You look exactly the way our grandparents look at a smartphone: it's a good thing, but it's like you can't do anything. By this I want to say that we have to tell people that this is not training and that you are not being sent as unskilled cannon meat, but that it is that you should be there, that you would feel your duty. I'll take some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U194	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U195	I remember when there was a young Eagle Camp near Kautla. Then the boys whined, and their nose was shriveled. I said that the Kautla thing wouldn't have been such a tragedy, but those so-called town-wolf forest brothers who came there had to be on guard when the battalion had done their job, but they wanted to go to the auntie's beach, too. That is why the bloody and sacrificial [combat] took place. Maybe if you've been given an assignment, it's gonna have to be done. Our people don't have patience, our people don't have discipline. A person has to understand what he has to do. I like the idea that an officer can never give an employee the task he cannot carry out on his own. It's kind of a starting point. Look at Leo Kunna, who is perhaps becoming a true Estonian idol, because he speaks calmly and if he uses a term, he will explain immediately. He doesn't come with knowledge to beat everyone up: you don't know anything, but I do. I'll read you the end of one of Villu Tamm's poems, which makes me wonder: "One soldier took a hangover with his head / And the other day he was killed / There's a soldier's end to the pains of the earth / But to the woman they only started / / For the woman had to walk / Because the only day of that wedding night / One life ended the second began after / But to the woman it was no comfort // Because the Orders didn't fill the father's place / And the memories didn't shut up the baby / That's why the woman was six months pregnant / With the child drowned herself in the hangover of a woman / And the other day he was killed / Three lives this time got war / Three million more waiting for a sequel." Every person in Estonia is irreparable value. We need to talk to them, we need to talk to them, we need to involve them. Every one of us has a job to do. I'm the one who's not being sent to the front line because of the age-related peculiarities. But I know how to cook food, more or less, because I've developed myself as a chef. So, good government, trust your people, talk to them, even at this difficult moment, because we cannot as ambassadors. The information we have from SITKE has been secreted for five years, but people can read it in the paper. Why do people think that we members of the Riigikogu are the smartest? We get this information, it's classified, exactly what's actually in the system. I could fix that. It's like, "Masks in the front! Masks off! " We received this message at 15:12 a.m., but people called at 10: 00 p.m.: " Is it true that on Sunday the masks will go off? " I say, " I don't know. And when it does, maybe I can tell you, maybe I can't. " I could say it wasn't covered up for at least five years. Trust the ambassadors, trust the people of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U196	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I was listening to my good colleague Tarmo. So how it was that war wants a madman, peace hopes a fool. Runnel, of course. I'm reminded of another sentiment in Latin: si vis pacem, para bellum. I don't know, but the world has been guided by it for so many years. That's right. And I've been [brought] here, here on the remote today, still this worry. Because, when I asked my question to the Prime Minister, I very much emphasised this aspect that the situation is really very special today because this much-spoken war has grown up in 2014, but now it has grown up and changed the situation significantly, not just for us, but for the whole world, for Europe, for everyone. This exceptionally difficult and bad situation has also created certain windows, which must certainly be used. We were talking about changing the foundations of security policy. The foundations that we had in security policy, say, six months ago or a year ago, need a very, very tough change. I was referring to that time hole. Now I will tie this to my question, which I also submitted to the Prime Minister. I said that security policy is very broad, we are not only talking about internal vectors or external vectors, we are actually talking about economic, social issues here. The current hole allows them to be exploited. Indeed, we are living now, we could term it, the timing of the sanctions. These sanctions are quite consciously and purposefully brought about, with no aim at them. These are the kind of sanctions that maybe a year ago were unthinkable. It would have started to talk about inequality, bullying, suppressing someone, but you see, now it's normal. Now I am referring again to the moments that are the pains of our society, created for really incomprehensible reasons. But, well, it is also behind this that I do not want to label here the political parties that have been in power for a long time, they are guilty of this, precisely the same thing, that we have here the same fascist Russian citizens, of whom a large majority supports this regime, they make millions here. I think Russia's 16th wealthy man was the man the media is talking about today, happy to be here. These same fascist Russian citizens are armed in gun clubs, they're prepared for street battles, they're ready. And they choose. The Prime Minister said, in an attempt to correct me, that no, Russian citizens do not choose. Good Prime Minister, yes, they will! If we're still talking about the local government council election law, they're in there. We cannot specifically state here that the Riigikogu does not elect them; they choose the local government. This is actually part of our country, these are our state bodies. And not only will they choose, but their children, underage children, of your goodwill. This is absolutely incredible in this situation. And then we wonder why there are portraits of Russian politicians up at our school in a certain area, which is why there are streets called communist murderers, and why we cannot change it in any way. But now I'm coming back to the subject. Good Prime Minister! You're in possession of this political roller, it's in your garage. You will be able to launch it effectively and quickly, unlike us, who we are in opposition. Let us now take advantage of this hole, use these targeted and very specifically targeted sanctions and take away a series of fun from Russian citizens. From the right that they can choose here, we take away from them the right to do business here, the right to be comfortable here, the right to carry weapons, the right to their memorials, with which they confirm and prove it, as if it were a vital, important holiday on 9 May. There are no such holidays in our country, and there can be no such holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U198	There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and we will be done with the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U199	We will move to the third item: the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo, Alar Lanemani, Uno Kaskpeiti, Leo Kunnas, Siim Pohlaku, Rene Koka, Jaak Valge, Merry Aarti, Martin Helme, Anti Polandmets, Urmas Reitelmann, Peeter Ernitsa, Henn Põlluaasa, Kalle Grünthali and Reuben Kaalepi. As a representative of the interviewees, please speak to Kert Kingo.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U200	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Russia has already carried out an aggression against Ukraine since 2014. On 24 February this year, Russia launched a war on Ukraine's territory, which has not been seen in Europe since 1945, with the time duration and end result not yet known. The bombing of cities and villages during the ongoing war has caused a humanitarian disaster. The President of Russia has threatened NATO Member States. Thus, as of today, there is a real threat to each Member State. In light of all this, we must pay attention to the readiness of our country. In addition to the readiness of the armed forces, the protection of the population in the event of military aggression is equally important. Unfortunately, the protection of the population has remained largely on paper in Estonia, and in Estonia there is not even a shelter for war on constitutional institutions, not to mention placing the entire nation in shelters. Estonia's liquid fuel supply is largely held abroad and cannot be brought to Estonia in the event of a maritime blockade. The Estonian Stockpiling Centre is at an early stage of its work. The state's food supply amounts to 1400 tonnes, which only covers the food needs of the population for three days. A significant increase in Estonia's preparedness for crises has become inevitable. In this respect, the Estonian Conservative People's Party would like to receive an answer from the Prime Minister about air alarm systems, the availability of protective equipment and supplies to their residents, the number of shelters and their location, the storage and storage of essential medicines, the state food supply for emergency purposes, the state fuel supply and much more. The Estonian Conservative People's Party submitted an inquiry to the Prime Minister on 7 March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U201	Now please respond to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U202	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, the military activities in Ukraine have been in progress since 2014. After the annexation of Crimea in 2014 and the start of military activities in Eastern Ukraine, the topic of population protection in Estonia also became topical. By decision of the Government of the Republic at the end of 2015, a population protection task force was set up, which operated in 2016-2018, and a shadow expert group, which operated in 2018. At the beginning of 2019, the government of the Fatherland, the Centre Party and the EKRE government approved a report by the shadow expert group, which also recommended how to proceed with the shadowing area. In March 2020, a year later, again the then government, the Fatherland, the Centre Party and the EKRE took note of an overview of the implementation of the activities of the concept of population protection. Among other things, the government at the time noted that activities related to the development of shadow capacity had not been completed by the deadline. But at that time, your government did not find the necessary funding for these activities in the process of preparing a country's budget strategy. This year, my government has made two fundamental decisions. Firstly, in January, we increased the defence budget by EUR 380 million for the next four years, and in March we decided to implement an additional EUR 476 million military defence reinforcement package over the next four years. In the January and March decisions, the total financial allocation for strengthening the protection and internal security of the population amounts to EUR 86 million. These are financial allocations that should have been dealt with a few years ago, but better late than never. Now specifically to the questions. "How will the warning of the people in the event of an outbreak of war take place? " In the supplementary draft budget we are drawing up, we have foreseen money to improve the population warning system, in line with the proposals of the Population Protection Task Force. The possibility of an outbreak of a war situation will be warned of the population in particular in the mass media. The experience of the war in Ukraine has shown that the outbreak of war is preceded by a time when the Estonian and foreign security authorities can give a sufficiently early advance warning, on the basis of which we can inform our citizens and give them codes of conduct. Information can be made through mass media, social media, SMS messages, and local communications can also be made through the police vehicles, drones and also through local authorities. The second question: "Which cities, towns or towns in Estonia have operational systems of air alarm sirens? " Estonia has information solutions for companies with major-accident hazards. These information solutions are intended to alert the population in the event of a chemical accident, but these sirens can also be triggered for other needs. There are 56 companies with sirens in Estonia. These companies are located in Tallinn, Harjumaa, Ida-Virumaa, Lääne-Virumaa, Pärnu, Tartu County, Viljandi, Põlva and Valga. According to the Rescue Board, approximately 290000 Estonian residents are located in the sirens of these companies. In addition, the development of a national mobile location based threat reporting system is at an advanced stage, which we will be able to use as of June 2022. This solution will allow us to send threat reports and codes of conduct in different languages to a mobile phone for people in a specific area very quickly, and this is a more meaningful solution than a siren alarm. This system requires mobile communication to function. It is certainly still necessary to transmit emergency messages also on the mass media. The third question: "How are the supplies of protective equipment organised and what is their availability? " According to the Public Information Act, information on the size and amount of resources needed to mitigate the consequences of an emergency and the conditions for its deployment are limited to access. So I'm going to answer generalized from this remote. The purpose of the PPE reserve is to ensure that the country is better prepared to cope with the outbreak of a serious infectious disease. For this purpose, we reserve personal protective equipment for hospitals, ambulances, social welfare institutions in one month's peak consumption during the crisis. A total of more than 40 million units of personal protective equipment have been purchased as goods in the state reserve. Today, Estonia's supply of personal protective equipment is very good and we even talk about over-supply, as the stock of some product groups is in the warehouses of different parties for several years. The task of the inventory centre is to optimise the national inventory of personal protective equipment and to replace purchased products step by step with delegated stock in wholesale storage facilities. In order for local authorities to be able to assist their people with primary evacuation resources, we have also provided additional means in the security package to increase the resilience of local authorities. Question 4: How many residents can be placed in shelters today and how have the population been informed about their locations? " Like the solutions currently in use in Ukraine, Estonia plans to take advantage of the possibilities of existing infrastructure as shelters. For example, old preserved shelters, underground car parks, cellars. The shelter is not a special shelter, but is meant a suitable building that provides primary protection in the event of bombing. The Shading Expert Group has mapped 75 possible places of refuge in Tallinn and Tartu. The Rescue Board has been tasked by the end of June 2022 to check possible shelters in four major cities, to mark appropriate shelters and to inform residents of the location of shelters. At the end of June, we can say how many public shelters we currently have, where they are and how many places there are for residents. In addition to public hiding places, it is very important to stress that every resident must also think independently about their own crisis preparedness. Shading is not always the best solution, but in Estonian conditions, it is often a much better solution for residents to move from cities to scattered areas in an emergency. Every resident must also think about where he or she would have the nearest primary refuge, such as a basement or any other place where he or she could evacuate in an emergency. You have to think about helping your loved ones. Question 5: "How has the provision and storage of essential medicines been organised? " According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, wholesalers of medicinal products are obliged to notify the Agency of the entry and export of authorised medicinal products, who will record the information in their database. Wholesalers of medicinal products with a market share of more than 10% are obliged to provide the Agency with a weekly overview of the stocks of medicinal products. The Agency may, as an emergency measure, prohibit the export of a medicinal product where this is necessary to ensure the uninterrupted supply of the medicinal product. Medicines with a stock status lower than the previous average monthly use shall be labelled by the Agency. According to the Agency, the stock levels of Estonian wholesalers ensure that most medicines are available for at least one month. In addition to the stocks held by wholesalers, the 500 institutions authorised by the pharmacy have their own stocks, the stocks of which are not collected officially. Secondly, the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Agency, has produced and submitted to the Estonian Stock Centre a list of essential outpatient medicines. Third, the Emergency Act provides for the establishment and renewal of the national inventory of health care and the supply of medicinal products and medical devices by health care providers. So there are 240 names of medicinal products and medical devices planned for hospitals and ambulances in the state's health care system. The state of inventory of both the state and health care providers in relation to Russia's military aggression in Ukraine is of particular concern. Sixth: "How have national food supply for emergency needs been arranged? "The level of self-sufficiency with Estonian food is good. In our manufacturing companies, wholesale warehouses and stores, food groups are more common in the volume of regular consumption for several months. In addition, most Estonian families have a home supply of food for several days. The country's food supply has been established in the early 2000s and is stored in the form of ready-to-eat foods, dry matter, cereal products, drinks, and is calculated that the calories contained in the stock are sufficient to cover the total population's food needs for three days. Estonia's food supply has been managed by the state company Estonian Stock Centre since autumn and the state's food supply has a total of over 1400 tonnes of goods. The Food Supply Centre has started negotiations with the food supply contract partners and has announced public procurements in order to multiply the volume of ready-to-eat food already this spring. Question 7: How is public fuel supply organised? " Estonia started to build up liquid fuel reserves in 2005 and the desired level was reached by 2010. Estonia's liquid fuel supply is managed by the State Company Estonian Stock Centre and according to the Liquid Fuel Stock Act, Estonia has an obligation to hold a reserve of oil products for 90 days. As of 1 January 2022, Estonia had a total liquid fuel supply of 253935 tonnes, which corresponds to the normal consumption of 90-day Estonian fuels. 49% of the country's fuel reserves are deposited in Estonia, 36% in Sweden and 15% in Finland. Stockholding contracts have been concluded with 15 Estonian and international companies. Partial storage of fuel supplies in another EU Member State is a common practice which increases solidarity between countries, helps to reduce storage costs and dispel risks. Question 8: "How has the rapid delivery of these resources been organised? " The state's operating stock will be mobilised at the discretion of the Government of the Republic in the event of significant supply difficulties, i.e. in a situation where the normal supply chains no longer function and the stock stocks of companies and the consumer's own supplies will be exhausted. The food supply is stored by Estonian entrepreneurs who have an obligation to keep an agreed amount of food and drinks in their stores at all times. In the event of a crisis, the state can buy the stock booked to it from producers and traders and, according to its priorities, channel them to consumption at evac centres, for example. The inventory centre shall make the inventory available to the authorities and organisations responsible for the resolution of the crisis, which shall also be responsible for organising the delivery of food to the immediate needy. As an alternative, in the event of a market failure, stocks may be allowed to be used by businesses to cover food shortages caused by supply difficulties. In such a case, the normal supply chain will function as a distribution system and the residents will receive the necessary goods from the shops. But the final decisions depend on the crisis situation. The introduction of fuel reserves is based either on an international decision to overcome global or regional supply difficulties and on the need to comply with Estonia's international commitments or serious disruptions in the supply of energy products to Estonia. In the event of supply difficulties within Estonia, the Estonian Stockpiling Centre makes sales offers of petrol and diesel fuels to nine companies today, including major gas stations and distributors and wholesalers of motor fuels. Allowed fuel for consumption moves on to filling stations through fuel companies and, on the basis of existing contracts, also directly to larger customers, for example, to serve storage tanks for electricity generators. Therefore, the introduction of the public reserve will not change anything for the final consumer of the fuel and the normal supply channel will be maintained. Ninthly, "How have people's awareness of the issues of population protection been addressed? How many community protection exercises have been carried out? " Based on the concept of public protection, since 2018 we have the main messages to raise the population's readiness for crisis, and they have raised citizens' awareness, such as the publications of the Rescue Board, various Rescue Board campaigns, in addition to the Women's Home Protection app, different online environments such as oleoks.ee, crisis.ee. Population protection exercises take place at different levels every year, but usually have been a task force. At the level of the Ministries and the Government of the Republic, the last exercise took place in 2019 with the population protection scenario, then the functioning of the provision of medicines, food, communications services and liquid fuel was addressed in a crisis situation. In 2023, a national crisis exercise is planned, where we want to actually carry out public protection activities, including extensive evacuation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U203	Yeah. Now we can ask questions. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! You did make the opening ugly, and at the beginning of your speech, you began to involve the previous government somehow. If you look at the truth, I think you can't deny that the Reform Party has held the responsibility of government or the party that held the scepter after Estonia regained independence. If someone should look at things they didn't do, then unfortunately, it's your home party. With this opening, you couldn't get the responsibility off you. But I'd like to ask about cooperation with local governments. For example, in Harjumaa Kose municipality, the whole of the Kose village is essentially a large shelter that can accommodate a very, very large number of people. Do and how much you work with local governments on the subject of using old, conspiracy shelters? Most importantly, even if they are owned by local governments, local governments don't have the money to clean up these shelters themselves. Does the government also intend to allocate any additional funds to local authorities to clean up their existing shelters?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U205	Thank you. First of all, your comment. Indeed, the security situation changed dramatically in 2014 and after that, a task force and a shadow expert group were actually carried out. Indeed, the results of this task force have been approved by your government, where the Fatherland, Centre Party and EKRE were. In March 2020, when the concept of population protection was discussed about the implementation of activities, your government decided that it did not need to be financed. Those are the facts. Just took note, but the country's budget strategy did not allocate money for it. These are the facts you need to look at. As far as shelters are concerned, indeed, as I said, with an additional budget, we are also allocating money to mark shelters. The Shading Expert Group has mapped 75 possible places of refuge in Tallinn and Tartu. The Rescue Board has been tasked by the end of June this year to check possible shelters in four major cities. Of course, by the end of June we should be able to say how many of these public shelters we have. I assure you that there will certainly be cooperation with local authorities in order to map and label all such places so that, if there were to be a need, people would know what can be used. But shelters, as they say, may not only be specially built shelters; they can also be cellars beneath houses, all kinds of underground car parks and such places. But the truth is, you have to let people know where the nearest place is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U206	There's been a procedure. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U207	Thank you! I ask the President of the sitting to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that he is in the Chamber and out of respect for the Estonian people, who are probably following this session and these questions, as well as to the Members of Parliament, not so blatantly lying about the previous government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U208	Yeah, I guess he heard it right now, so I'm not gonna go over it. Siim Pohlak also has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U209	Thank you. I have a very procedural question. What if the Prime Minister forgets a question? I also asked about the money to be given to local governments. Should I ask again or, since I can't do it, what happens when the Prime Minister forgets one paragraph of the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U210	No, you cannot ask another question, but you can ask some of the political groups, for example, to remind you of that. On the next question, perhaps there will be an opportunity to get an answer. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The town of Paide has a total of three civil protection shelters plus two or three kilometres in the immediate vicinity, two more civil protection shelters designed to withstand a nuclear attack. But the problem is, they're all on private property. I've been to some things. There's no more ventilation that works, there's other things. The question is whether the Prime Minister agrees that the City of Paide, for example, will be allocated financial resources specifically for the repair of shelters held by these private individuals so that people can be sent to shelter in case of danger.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U212	Thank you. First, I will answer Mr Pohlak's question. The funds are also allocated to local authorities in order to strengthen the resilience of the crisis. This includes information to citizens, all kinds of issues of protection for the population. That's something to do with it. Now I come specifically to private shelters. As I said, the Rescue Board is mapping them, he's also mapping private shelters. In fact, if there really is such a situation, even martial law, then the private sector also has certain responsibilities that are competent in this case. So at the first stage, of course, local governments, state-owned shelters are being dealt with, but there are also other places in this map.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U213	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U214	Thank you. Prime Minister! I'm asking about the food supply. The Emergency Act does not contain a list of "Food Supply." I don't know what it's coming from or where it's coming from, that we need it at all. Is there gonna be some other law or something? The supply center has 1,400 tons, three days' supply. Or really [exactly] know what's in that 1400 grand. But is the three-day supply sufficient in the current situation or should we review it? The other side is the side of the cultivation. We don't do so well with self-sufficiency, except for milk and cereals. It's 75 to 80% in the pig's hive. The beef walks around, well, you can read it, of course, yes, so if you need it, it doesn't walk around anymore, it's a spare. But it's the same side of growing, is there anything to do with it? It's not like we're going through a crisis, nobody throws food packs down here. It's actually a pretty serious problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U215	Thank you. For quite several years now, the Rescue Board has informed people through various campaigns that people should have at least seven days of food supplies at home. In fact, it's different, depending on whether people live in scattered settlements or cities. People are better equipped in the settlement, but the city feels that the shops are all close and therefore there is no need to stock up so much. That's one side. Of course, it's the other side, too, this level of self-sufficiency. In the case of cereals, as you said, the level of self-sufficiency is good. If you ask why we should be dealing with these stocks, food supplies at all, then the fact is that Ukraine, Russia and Belarus are going to produce quite a large proportion of certain foodstuffs or, for example, of the fertilisers needed to grow food, and this certainly has some effect. That is why these stocks need to be dealt with. The level of self-sufficiency, I have it here, is good, but, as you say, it is better in one area and worse in another. But the supply center is still working on multiplying the volume of the prepared food supply, just in case it exists and shouldn't worry about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U216	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U217	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In recent days, I have come to notice the sadness of public media that has repeatedly been there in connection with recent events. Architects say that they have been addressing the government for years and years, that it would be necessary to legitimise the possibility of hiding in new buildings, but this has not been taken into account because it has not been considered necessary. True, 2014 was created a task force, and now perhaps this thing is different, but it has been ridiculed. The same problem has also been posed by the Rescue Board's people that they have not taken seriously the possibility of hiding. That is the question of whether the government is planning to develop a draft, which can be dealt with in such a way that, in the case of new buildings, an obligation is created to create the possibility of hiding or something like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U218	Thank you. In the previous question, your own groupmate, Leo Kunnas, said that, if you think about it, this means that these developments are likely to become more expensive. It's the choice people have to make. If you have an obligation, the building will become more expensive, and eventually people will pay for it. Plans belong to the province of the local government, and local government can do so in relation to the demands that are made in specific areas, but in the end, the same homeowner will pay for it in the end. So right now, we have no intention of developing such a legislative amendment. If you think this is necessary, we can discuss it. But to sum up, right now, construction prices are all going up pretty much, and finally the homeowner will have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U219	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U220	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I will somehow try to merge the previous item and its current one. We have still not received quite specific answers. When we are talking about the protection of the population, in fact, the same medium-country anti-aircraft, which has been much talked about, is, by the way, very important for the protection of the population, too, extremely important. He has a range of 40 kilometers and a height of 16 kilometers. It would be crucial for the protection of our major cities, so that Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and their inhabitants do not suffer the fate of Mariupoli. If it is important for you to have the lives of the civilian population and to ensure that our cities are not bombed, please be sure and tell us in full detail when the government will allocate the necessary resources to provide medium-range anti-aircraft so that people and civilian objects can be effectively protected in the event of war.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U221	Thank you. I guess you weren't in this room the whole time. When I answered the previous question or question, I said that the government has decided to start this procurement procedure within four months. Why four months? For this reason, at NATO level, we are making decisions for the Madrid Summit, and it shows what capabilities the allies are sending here and what they are not sending. As a result, we must make our own decisions as to whether or not we are doing these procurement procedures and to what extent we are doing them. So, yes, the decision to develop medium-range anti-aircraft capabilities has been made entirely by a government decision and in such a time frame.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U222	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U223	Thank you, Prime Minister. You said that underground car parks and underground floors of new buildings can be used as shelters, and these possibilities exist in Tallinn and Tartu. Very good. But what do people like Tapa, Jõhvi, or Võru need to do? These cities are obvious targets for the enemy, as they contain the bases of the Estonian Defence Forces. There are over 10,000 residents in Võru and Jõhvi, over 5,000 in Tapa. These cities do not have large, massive new buildings with underground car parks that could be used as shelters. What do people who do not have a farm or a cottage or transport that will allow them to move there quickly, do when living in these cities, or what must they be prepared for?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U224	I said before and I repeat that at the end of June we can say how many public shelters we have in these places as well. I don't have that information right now, it's still being mapped out. But I agree with you that, in the event of such a military threat, these cities, in places where our military units are located, are certainly at greater risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U225	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You're up to it, and you're up to it, and we're about to do it and we're about to do it. You didn't even send that money until March. Perhaps I can conclude from what you have said that most of the activities have begun to take place since our inquiry came into your mailbox. But here's my question. You said here that information on the outbreak of a war, or warning, will take place either through a cell phone, SMS or other means of communication. I imagine you meant television and radio. Then you said that in some areas it was done with loudspeakers cars. But, as we know, it makes sense that electricity and mobile communications are taken away first. How do people get informed about scattered settlements in rural areas because it takes half a day to drive a loudspeaker from one side of the county to the other? How will these people be informed when there is no mobile and no electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U227	Thank you. Firstly, I want to correct that we have already made decisions in January that population protection needs to be strengthened, that national defence needs to be strengthened. That was long before you came to me with your questions. Once again, I must stress that, even though twice the government was in your time [with this subject], and in 2019 the government approved the report of the shadow expert group, where there was also a recommendation on how to move forward, nothing was done, and in March 2020, this is a year later, your government took note of the implementation of the population protection concept's activities, but the state budget strategy did not provide money for this. So we have made these decisions, and we have foreseen the money to do so. How will the public be informed? Absolutely, this concern is very legitimate, as you say, that if the electricity goes away, how will people know? It is recommended that these same transistor radios be provided in order to obtain information if necessary. But indeed, farther away, there is no danger, of course, if there is a dislocation, so great a danger that they are the target. Targets, we can see in the example of Ukraine, are still where there are either military targets or where there are very many people and there is a great deal of damage to be done. But we will continue to work on informing the population in order to create more of these information opportunities. By the way, drones can also be reported in dispersal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U228	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U229	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You mentioned protection in your report. What did you mean by that, or the masks we were wearing so far? They don't protect you from anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U230	Thank you. You asked me about the supply of protective equipment. Indeed, the purpose of the PPE reserve is to ensure that the country is better prepared to cope with the outbreak of a serious infectious disease. These are personal protective equipment: protective masks, respirators, gowns, suits, glasses and gloves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U231	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U232	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Yes, it is undoubtedly very important to urgently introduce an amendment to the construction code, which obliges the construction of new buildings to start building shelters, and, of course, also to develop a state measure to support it due to price increases. But could you repeat again how many funds are foreseen for the protection of the population in the supplementary budget that is currently being set up in order to move on with this? What amounts has the Rescue Board requested to carry out the initial operations for this purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U233	Yeah. The Home Office had $86 million. But how much of this is now part of the Rescue Board? Okay. [[Browse papers.]] I don't have that information in this material right now how much it's part of the Rescue Board. I'll have it sent to you. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U234	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U235	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, During the ongoing mapping of shelters, will the former underground bunkers of the Russian occupying forces be reviewed, which have been built in anticipation of the possibility of nuclear war? Concrete is not known to be germinated or rotted. They could be converted into shelters relatively cheaply.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U236	Thank you. I expect this map to cover, because it should cover all the possible places that exist and can be used. It makes sense that they go in there too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U237	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U238	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! It is extremely expensive to build all objects of civil or public protection and the whole system. This long-term process is not a matter of a single day. I've dealt with it both as a county governor and already in Chernobyl, and I know how it works. That is why the problem is very big, because these things tend to go like this, that if we have a crisis or a situation like this, then we look straight into the face and we quickly start asking questions and doing this thing, but the process is actually a long-term one. This process should go beyond government, beyond time. This financial allocation and the maintenance of these sites should be carried out for a long time. I have the question: how do you plan not to collapse with the end of this government?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U239	Thank you. Well, it seems to me that there is a consensus here in the Riigikogu, at least among the political forces that are here, on matters of defence as well as population protection. After all, we are also making decisions in the country's budget strategy, which is four years to think that all of this really is not a one-off but actually a longer-term one. After all, this can be guaranteed by all parties in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U240	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You were talking about planning and mapping different capabilities, as far as the shadows are concerned. Could you say a few words about the government's goal, the level of ambition, the amount of shelters or actual shelters in the cities? Is it possible to say how it is planned to make critical infrastructure more resilient to different attacks: electricity, water? Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U242	Thank you. At the end of June, you could say how many public shelters, where they are located and how many places there are for residents, are currently in use. You can see what else you have to do from there. As regards the strengthening of communication and other capabilities, we have also thought about this. It is precisely on the subject of cyber capabilities, which also concerns the functioning of communications, gas stations, electricity. This means both the security of the local authorities in crisis and the availability of vital services such as heating, water, also the busy crisis rooms, communication to them in exactly the same way, they must be strengthened in order for them to survive. We remember when I don't know exactly how many years ago there was a strong storm in South Estonia. It exposed how vulnerable we are in this regard. At the gas station, you only get fuel when there's electricity, but there's no electricity. You can't get water or this, the other and the third. You have to be tougher. In fact, here's another thing that people can think about themselves and that kind of connects with this green turn. The creation of these small production capacities for houses will also help in certain cases. For example, if a nationwide network is down, production still works for its own use. So it's worth thinking about, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U243	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U244	Good manager! Prime Minister! Lately, there's been a lot of talking and asking if you have a well and a basement, and if you have a country where you live, where there's a patch of land. It's still a big deal about the townspeople, the city's ounces. But can you estimate the percentage of our city's population ready, if, for example, tomorrow should be something like the one in Ukraine when the power is lost and the communications are lost and the elevators are no longer working, the petrol is no longer available and there is no food?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U245	Thank you. Can anyone actually be ready for the end of the war? You can think of all kinds of things, but when all this happens, I believe, there's a lot of confusion. Emotionally, we can't really prepare ourselves for this. People's readiness is different. I would like to stress once again that there is no immediate military threat to us right now. That kind of fear shouldn't arise right now. But at the same time that people should be replenishing their supplies, the Rescue Board has been talking for years: this seven-day supply and see if there are, I don't know, electrical generators and such things. It might not just be a war situation, it could be a bigger storm or something that's knocking the systems out. So in any case, it's worth looking at these supplies. After all, some time ago, there was a study that turned out that people in town were less prepared than people in scattered settlements, because you don't have a place next to a store and you don't think that you can go to that store any minute, so you have food and everything you need more to live. While in a town where the store is on every corner, people don't need to stock up. However, if, for example, cash is not available or card payments are not working, it is very difficult to obtain supplies from that shop, even if it is full of goods. Therefore, everyone should think about it. After all, the Rescue Board has a website that shows how much you should have been stocked up at home. I think it could be looked at by all the people. Women's Home Guard also has an app that helps you to get what you need in your home in order to be better prepared.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U246	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U247	Thank you. Of course, from the point of view of population protection, you can be prepared for war. Let us look at what is in Finland, where there are shelters for almost the entire population, not the shelters you are talking about. Those are two completely self-obsessed things. Let us even recall what happened in Mariupoli theatre and dozens of such places of refuge. They often only give people moral shelter, not substance. But what I want to ask you is what you intend to do in the government in connection with the fact that three ministers of your government did not come to the Riigikogu on Wednesday the week before that, ignored it, showed the greatest disrespect to the Riigikogu. It's far from normal practice and practice. What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U248	Thank you. First of all, what I want to say is that you are putting it so that this question of shadows is like the most important question. Yes, it is, but in that case, why didn't you decide twice when you were in the government? Your words and actions don't go together. On the one hand, you say that this is the most important thing, but on the other hand, at the beginning of 2019, the government, right, approved the report of the shadow expert group. He didn't make the money. In March 2020, a year later, the government of that time took note of an overview of the implementation of the population protection concept's activities, but it did not allocate money for this. I mean, there's talk, but for decisions to be made specifically, money is needed. That's the two of us who've made these decisions. In other words, it is worthwhile not to be guided by what people say but by what they actually do. Of course, all ministers must respect the Riigikogu very clearly, come here and answer questions from the Riigikogu. I believe that the ministers will do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U249	A procedure, Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U250	Yes, I want to pay attention to the fact that the Prime Minister is just blaming, acting very ugly. In the previous question, too, when we were most concerned about our national defence in the best sense of cooperation, we heard continuing to be thanked by the Prime Minister, very ugly. Even now, if you point the finger at the EKRE government, who took the relevant decisions and probably would have come behind it, I would perhaps point out to you: who was in the government before 17 years, wasn't it the Reform Party that did absolutely nothing? In this context, coming to blame for others is extremely low, I'd say.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U251	Henn, it wasn't procedural, it's part of the negotiations already. Mardi has a procedure. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U252	Yeah, I'd just ask the Prime Minister not to cuddle and lie.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U253	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U254	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Has the government also thought about the plan that we now have a large number of war refugees, for whom finding a job is quite difficult, but can we use it to build the necessary infrastructure from the point of view of population protection? These people, who have just come from a war zone, realize the usefulness of these things. If they are still getting paid for this, given that the average salary in Ukraine was still EUR 250.280, I think we have something to show for real by Midsummer Day. Is the government meant for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U255	Thank you. First of all, I'm just saying in response to these procedural responses that I'm pointing out the dry facts. Dry facts are what I read. You can't argue with them, it's not like you're whipped or lying, that's exactly what it is. You see, money can be allocated with a national budget strategy, money can be allocated with a state budget. In March 2020, the concept of protection of the population was taken into account, where all such activities related to the development of shelters and shadowing capabilities were included, the national budget strategy was discussed after that, and the state budget was brought to government after that. These are the places where money can be allocated, to show that real action is behind words. So there's no way I'm gonna bash. I'm gonna draw attention to the dry facts. Now to the question. Making war refugees work. I agree with you in itself that the sooner refugees get to work, the easier it will be to bear this burden. What kind of jobs can war refugees be used in? It is more of a matter of employers who have some kind of job to offer. All kinds of shelters are not going to be built separately now, at current construction prices, but for the time being there is a mapping. Secondly, I hope that there is no way in which you can read from your question that it is like the idea of using these war refugees in any way, I do not even know, as a non-paid labour force. I hope that this was not the focus of this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U256	No further questions. Thank you. We can open negotiations. Alar Laneman, first of all, by the inquisitors. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U257	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! People's protection is an age-old subject. It must now be said that we have at least come to the recognition that we have an unfinished field of work here and are ready to take the first steps. However, since there was also talk of cooperation with the opposition, the point that I have made in my speech is that I have also taken this cooperation and would like to share some assessments and thoughts. First of all, the situation. It is by no means possible to call it satisfactory; it has been acknowledged by both politicians and various officials. We can see that this is also reflected in the worrying attitude of the population, in the successions. We see that every now and then the Rescue Board is revived, there is an information campaign that a person should have been made to be ready. Concerns have intensified against the background of the Ukrainian war. The extremely awful situation is opening up there in the occupation areas. Unfortunately, I have to admit that in this situation, there are some uncertainties about who is responsible. At national level, they're like the Ministry of the Interior and the Rescue Board. But one of the experiences of the Ukrainian war is that practical work must still take place at local government level. Here, it seems, there's a lot more to do. For example, the mayor of Pärnu, answering a question on the same subject, was limited to claiming that he had a basement, hopefully for many other people. But what does the municipality and the municipality manager do? It takes a lot of education here. One of the reasons may be that we are talking about defence in a broad sense, but when we bump into a particular subject, we forget about this broad concept right now. Fortunately, one issue today mentioned, for example, the link with mid-earth air control, which is a direct and first line of defence to protect the population. Moreover, if the country is protected from air, this is also a very strong argument for the psychological protection of the population. So I have to admit once again, having watched social media, where people report it, unfortunately, the Commander of the Defence Forces does not realize that it is time to deepen. When we talk about the substance of the matter, it is a two-tier problem. One is the real protection of people from the direct influence of military devices and the impact of destroying the living environment. We know this concept: vital infrastructure. The second [level] is the environment and the preservation of people from such unexpected events when the whole world that they have is destroyed, for example, people do not even physically get out of the basements. We can use evacuation, physical cover, urgent medical assistance to protect people. In the case of infrastructure, there are only two means: it must be protected and, where necessary, duplicated. And when we're talking about population protection... Can I take a little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U258	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U259	... then we can all admit that this aspect often falls outside and falls outside for quite a number of, at times, incomprehensible reasons. One understanding of why the civil sector, as well as the public authorities, is reluctant to deal with this issue, is that it should come from the so-called 2% of the money that is intended for the military defence of the country. It is forgotten that the important functions of the state, especially vital functions, are meant to function not only during the golden peacetime. They are designed to function as long as there are people who depend on them. There's another place where the government might have to step in more forcefully. The next [place] where it is possible to quickly and perhaps not to improve the situation by spending so much money is the appointment of responsible persons and the precise allocation of responsibilities in the country, both at national level and at local government level. I mentioned in the introduction that if the Rescue Board, even during the corona crisis, showed that it worked, the governance structure would also work when we went down, the troubles would begin. The introduction of a management system with a division of tasks and a responsibility that should be personal is one tool that can help a lot. We all know that in those areas where there are those who take the lead, people with enthusiasm, things are evolving, but where there is a need to constantly push and listen to the explanations why things cannot be done, there is a backwardness. A large area that has been repeatedly mentioned today, but where major changes can be achieved, is the change in construction and planning arrangements. Yes, it can make these buildings more expensive, for example, have been spoken of as 10%. A person takes a mortgage for 15 years, he will pay a year and a half or two longer. But I think people feel that it's to protect their own life and health. By the way, there is also a clear view of the importance of leadership in this matter. At the meeting of the Commission, the Ministry of the Interior replied that MKM was involved. I daresay we'll wait, that's not MKM's first concern. If the person responsible is the Ministry of the Interior, MKM is a supporter and the Ministry of the Interior is making sure it works. So again, leadership and responsibility. And most importantly, I would advise you not to lose time. We've got a lot of holes with omissions. No matter where we start, it can only fix it. That's what I want the strength to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U260	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U261	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! Good people who are watching our debate, and also the good Prime Minister! A little bit of this ping-pong goes on here: à let me not get tired of praising myself, and if I get tired, I'll rest a little bit, and I'll continue to praise myself. It's usually a pretty good political debate in peacetime, putting away who's the most eloquent of us. But today it doesn't work, because at that point it's really fucked up, and no matter how much we've prepared for it, it turns out so much remains to be done. We should start with a little bit. I recommend that everyone borrow the book of Leo Kunnas, War 2023. David. Goliath." If that were to be said by the EKRE, there would be a risk that they would be advertising themselves. It was an honor for me to read it for a long time. It is reasonable, it concerns all the issues that we have been talking about here, what a person can do for this situation. Now, what's our problem? Problem No 1, Tallinn boy, as I am, [I think that] Tallinn More is obliged to invest one kilometer of new water line, but at the same time we have sealed up all the old wells. So if we don't have electricity, we don't have water. But as humans, we already make up 70% of the water, we need water. We need to review the network of wells by local authorities immediately. Energy, yes, all the other things, the possibilities, because we can see that the grass is still expensive when we put all the eggs in the same basket. But my question is how can we get new hands on the job that we may not have a real job for? This is where I remembered my good university lecturer Mart Helme, who spoke in one of the lectures about the CCC. It was civilization and... My English isn't the best, I hope Mart stays on it. The years were then 1933 and 1934 when there was no work, and then young men were made to work camps where they built all kinds of infrastructure. In Estonia, too, Laidoner took all these powerful working hands and so we completed Pirita tea. Today, in order to build these shelters, we have buckets, we have things. If we do public procurement, we get 2.5 times more expensive and in the meantime we may have to look at this contracting authority. Maybe my point is that we don't need to build a bridge in Saaremaa because it gets three times more expensive. We'll take the Norwegians, they'll make a tunnel and exactly at this price and guarantee as long as they are. The idea of the CCC was to keep people working, working. Imagine if today these war refugees could come to help build shelters. They actually see their importance, they understand why they do it, and they get paid for it. We're coming up with "Let's do it!" feet. The will of the community is always great when it comes to the matter. A simple example: In Tiskre's settlement it was necessary to make a bridge across the river, a project [you did], it cost 140000 kroons, on which the enterprising men said that what! went and bought the materials for 40,000 kroons and built the bridge themselves. We're forest brothers, we can build bunkers. It's not like we're all gonna get hit. Do you think in Ukraine all the shelters are made for nuclear bombs? We see what brutality is, in fact, in Russia, even the civilian population will no longer be spared, no mercy will be given. A man is given a chance when he is born into this world. Today, our country has a chance to protect its own people. My idea may be stupid, but it's worth considering. We have this opportunity to do something. I think that we can first of all involve people to whom we do not have a professional job, we can also involve all other people. People have a will. See how women already make these camos because people really want to do something. Sprang in, and even for half an hour you're doing that shovel fitness, but you've done something for the fatherland. For Estonia! To the death of you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U262	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U263	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Colleagues! I thought that I would not speak today in the interests of domestic peace, even though these enquiries are all very topical, acute and on issues with very long-term implications, both in the past and in the future. But unfortunately, the respondent was literally provoking his impertinence, and I cannot fail to speak. The year was perhaps 2015, the first time we were in the Riigikogu with the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I don't remember if it was Question Time or if there was an inquiry, but it was exactly about population protection. We asked about these very shelters for the then Prime Minister, Taavi Rõivas. His answer was, of course, sweeping and demagogic, as all his answers as a general rule were. But I remember one sentence. The sentence said: "Estonia does not prepare for war. " Maybe in 2015 there was such a feeling that the end of history was at hand, peace is eternal, American umbrella, rainbow color is above us, and no Russian rocket will pass through there. But today we have 2022 and the situation has changed completely. Even then, 2015, should have prepared for war. Taavi Rõivas said that Estonia is not preparing for war. When we were in the government, in October 2019, when this storm broke out in South Estonia, which led to a roof on the substation, which resulted in a blackout and all resulting from it, we discovered how badly the Estonian Reform Party and its coalition partners have been prepared for all crises. This was forgotten by the Prime Minister how badly the Reform Party had led Estonia, so we practically lacked crisis readiness. Then a horrible stroll began, and as a result of that stroll, something changed for the better. But then a new crisis came, it was a corona. Then it became even clearer how badly the Estonian state is prepared for crises. We didn't have any facial masks, no protective clothing, no temperature measuring aids. We had nothing. The then Jüri Ratas government, in which we were a party, had to deal feverishly with all this failure. So if you're talking about that, but you and why you didn't do it and why you didn't give the money, we did. We gave a lot of money to bring masks from China to launch the production of protective equipment in Estonia and everything else involved. Yes, we did. Now the shelters. Another example of cynically lying to the public, and then they say no, I'm not lying. Yes, you are. The hiding place isn't a shelter. The hiding place is that when it rains, I go under the tree, it's also a hiding place. But it's not a roof over your head, it's not a shelter. The shelter is where people can feel relatively safe, where there is an autonomous power supply, water supply, sewerage, so that people may be able to survive there for a very long time. By the way, our southern neighbour Latvia has preserved, I don't know if everyone, but at least most of the Soviet shelters. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U264	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U265	And they're fully operational. I've been to several. It's fully operational. They do tours there, too. Contact the Prime Minister of Latvia for a few tours. You can also see how Soviet-era tank engines are started to make ventilation, electricity and everything work. The Latvians kept them in order, but the Reform Party government had them looted, smacked, flooded, and everything else got out of hand. Then he comes in here and points out why you didn't do it. But why did you leave the shit behind first? Why? I don't know. You don't have an answer. It's our fault. EKRE is responsible for all the bad things that are in Estonia, at least according to Kaja Kallas. But I think it's your fault. By the way, I'm coming to the last question. I didn't want to take the floor because I thought that peace at home was such a precious thing. You've been doing exactly counterproductive activities. You have created another illusion about how you have guaranteed Estonia some kind of international protection. You haven't guaranteed anything. The fact that you have kissed the Macrons and Sholz does not guarantee Estonia anything. This is exactly what Moscow is waiting for: that you go to them, humbly look at them with dog eyes and believe when they say don't worry, we will protect you, while knowing that they will make deals with Moscow over our heads. And then your meetings and your deep eyes won't cost anything. You have done exactly what is expected in Moscow. Unfortunately, you have enough vanity and enough stupidity not to understand it. But I'm such an old man that I understand, unfortunately. I'm coming back to community protection. All those years that the Reform Party was in power, all the Commanders of the Defence Forces and all the Defense Ministers fought against mid-earth anti-aircraft. This can be confirmed by our military personnel on the basis of their long military practice and activities. They all fought against it. The reasoning was once again very simple: we do not need it, it is brought to us by allies. What if the allies don't? Someone now appears saying that Estonia is more and more like Israel. Well, it's not. Israel has a missile defence system, which they call an iron dome, and this iron dome protects Israel's territory, all Israeli military bases and settlement centers against missile attacks. We are not like Israel because we have a Reform Party in the form of a Z-shaped squirrel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U266	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U267	Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have an inquiry to the Prime Minister on matters relating to the protection of the population. In the case of military defence, it is also a very important question of how to protect the population in the event of military aggression. Nine questions were put today, all on different topics, but I will briefly touch on two very important issues, I think, and I will try to do a little analysis here, as far as time allows. First of all, I would like to make such a remark to our ruler that shelters and shelters are not the same thing. The shelter is still the one designed to protect the population from the bombings. In the question that I also asked our ruler, I pointed out that in a small town such as Paide there are three shelters built during the Soviet era and two more within two or three kilometres, which are actually foreseen even in the event of a nuclear attack. The problem is that these shelters are in private hands, they have not lost their defensive capabilities, the residents can hide there, but there is a lack or need for renovation of certain systems, such as the air exchange system, electricity and so on. It is clear that the private owner will not do so. When I asked our ruler if it was possible to obtain a financial allocation in order to make these shelters usable in an elementary sense, there was no really concrete answer. There was a vague indication that by the end of June this year, possible places of refuge will be mapped out, according to the ruler's words, and then we will see what happens next, because the immediate military threat does not threaten us. I think this is a very inadequate approach. The war comes when it does, and it usually comes suddenly. We do not need to do any mapping work now, but we need to resolve this issue by the end of this month at the latest. You say this Paide is a small town, why so many shelters are needed there, why protect the population there, he's not a target. But it is. It is located in the middle of Estonia, at the intersection of the roads. It will stop at any military column there for just a moment and this town will be the target and then it will no longer be possible to create a means of hiding. It has to be done right now. Therefore, for the population of this city to be protected, funds must be allocated immediately. We don't need to map anything here, we have these places. That's the first thing of the utmost importance. The second question that came to my attention and is comic in itself is when our ambassadors, Kert Kingo and Uno Kaskpeit, examined how the population's protective supplies were organised in the event of a possible war situation. The answer was simply amazing, entirely at the level of our ruler: we have the same rags to control infectious diseases and have the same gowns. So, good people of Estonia, we are fully equipped with all means of defence for possible war and aggression. Honor our Prime Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U268	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U269	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, friends, Prime Minister. Dies diem docet, once said Latin. This expression means that day teaches day, experience gives experience. The last few days, the experiences I've had in the last few months, they've been asking me out, and maybe even scared. I do not dare to think of the unexpected things that may come before us, of all of us, of our people, because these unexpected things can be very tragic. This inquiry today was carried by a great deal of concern, concern for our people, for people who, in a situation I don't even want to imagine, could get into a very difficult situation. What have we expected of our government in the current crisis, where our people may need the strongest support, moral, spiritual, and physical and financial support, in a situation where we are in serious danger? First of all, the people naturally need protection. So, what do we know today? We found out today that we have shelters, shelters, charted 75 and allocated 80 million to the Rescue Board. By the way, 75 shelters. Do you know how many people have to fit in if we wanted to put the people of Estonia in there? There's 18,000 people on the shelter. Well, it's a cool shelter, I can't imagine if we're this big. Okay, jokes, but the problem is real. I want to say that this is not perhaps about this 75 because, as the Prime Minister said, we are going to work on, the government means, by the end of June, we will find out the real picture. Let's say they're not 75, they're 75,000, whatever. But what I'm trying to say is that, as far as I know, I'm not telling you the exact number of people, 70-75% of the residents live in housing companies. Apartment cooperatives are apartment buildings which, according to Soviet GoST, were made to be able to hide, protect the population in the lower floors, the basement floors were to receive an elementary impact, withstand and in the event of a house collapse. These cellars, which were then built as such, are no longer working well. Newer buildings have been built without this possibility. That's why, as Taavi told us in clothing, we're not preparing for war. These existing ones can also be put up in some way so that they can provide basic [defence]. But it requires help because housing associations, where, of course, do not live the richest people, are in a very difficult situation in themselves to carry out this task, but right now we have to think about it every hour, every minute, every day. So let the day teach the day, as the old Latins said. Somehow, please do this to the government, so that the removal of this crisis is not apparent, but it actually happens, in fact, so that it can help people throughout Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U270	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U271	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! The protection of the population is undoubtedly such a core part of a broad-based national defence. It is more than appropriate to draw attention to this and to discuss it in the current security situation. It is true, of course, that we have been doing excursions here to past times, but if we now confess honestly, the horrors that we [eyes] are now opening up in Ukraine have brought us to earth, figuratively speaking. We have realised that all of this could be here in Estonia at one point. It is really good that we are now also thinking about how to protect our people, how to build our broad-based national defence. Perhaps it is not important to say who did not do anything today, but to focus on what needs to be done. I am not going to read the population protection plan presented by the Minister of the Interior in the Committee on National Defence here and to judge in detail. I think that 44 million and a little bit of what's out there is this absolute minimum. In fact, the Minister of the Interior himself stated that it does not cover all the needs. It's very good that we have such a plan. It is very good that the government has made these decisions. But again, as I said on the previous item, this step could be a little longer. Perhaps here the length of this step is less modest than for defence costs, for military costs, but still. We know that we need to increase human resources, and we also have fixed costs that are increasing. It's actually a challenge. On which I would dwell a little bit longer and which, in itself, as though money is not required, is our legislation, which should also deal with the broad-based defence and protection of the population. We know that municipalities are preparing general plans. It is understandable that population protection is conceivable only in cooperation with local authorities. This, of course, requires very good cooperation, but it also really requires specific tasks to be given to municipalities. I cannot tell you how much local governments have thought about this key in today's situation, just as we have felt in recent days and weeks what changes need to be made. But when we establish these general plans, they are usually set for at least 10 years. This is what gives the municipality a plan how the city or municipality should develop. I also looked at the law of planning. Indeed, in the overall plan, we are saying that this general plan must include solutions to the part of the bathing areas and to the milieu-value problems, and valuable farmland must be protected and there is a light road that we are building and... But the protection of the population... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U272	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U273	You can only search there for protection if you deliberately go to the most general level. Well, you can go into anything. This would certainly require a clear reflection in the planning law, which we expect from the municipalities in general planning on population protection. It's got to be very clear. Now the second part of the legislation. Indeed, it is a matter of the construction code, or shadows. We've been arguing about what's a shelter and whether the shadows are enough. One might say, indeed, that it is better to stand under the tree in the rain than to stand in the open. So you can't say that the shadows are nothing at all. But here we have a long step to take. Indeed, for various reasons, we have probably failed to do so many things that our good northern neighbours, Finns, have done. Or in Switzerland, where the protection of the population must be figuratively said, you can say, you can share with your mother's milk, and all this is taken into account in building buildings. We should certainly hold these debates here too, how we then put these tasks on the developers, whether the home builder is obliged to make some part of the building in his home so that it can withstand something stronger. How do we, in certain parts of the city, where a certain number of residents are concentrated in Lasnamäe, Annelinn, some others in a very small area, solve it? Who will build them, who will cover these costs? Finally, it must be accompanied by a certain compulsion. If the municipality issues a building permit, then this part of the project has already been discussed, the design conditions have been established, it is known precisely, and we will not be able to say in ten years' time that indeed, in 2022 we were discussing here, but we are still in the same place. I think we have taken a step forward in the light of the horrors that are taking place in Ukraine. This financial step could be a little longer. But we should definitely start now, I would say, immediately we should start on the side of the legislation. This is what we can do in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen. Undoubtedly, today's coalition also has a carrier's responsibility. They have no reason to hide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U274	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U275	I'd like to ask for more time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U276	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U277	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Good Minister of the Interior! In fact, there are two democracies in the world where the protection of the population could be said, things are very well. These two countries are partly surprising, partly not. One is Switzerland and the other is Israel. In the case of Israel, it is understandable that Israel has always been threatened and lived in war conditions since the first day of its existence. The first budget for Israel was this, and I quote my late colleague John: '90% can get national defence, the rest can get 10%, do it. " It was 1948. Switzerland is surprising in this respect that Switzerland is not directly threatened. But where does the feeling of people come from, why have they always felt that the protection of the population is important? Indeed, in these two countries, 100% of the population has either shelters or shelters. A good colleague, Henn, was a little wrong when he said that things were very good in Finland. In Finland, there are shelters and shelters for just two thirds of people. Finns have built them since the late 1930s. The Finns began to build these systems at the same time as we, the Spanish Civil War, were the first mass bombings to take place. After all, in 1937/1938 we made the bastions shelters, which left a lot of people alive at the bombings of 1944, who might otherwise have been killed. We started building them at the same time. The Finns have kept it quiet all this time, they've been building for 80 years, but still haven't been able to provide 100% of the people with shelters and shelters. But also these countries, how have they approached it? The state doesn't build much itself, the state obliges. The state obliges builders, the state obliges housing cooperatives, the state obliges municipalities, sometimes also gives money to local governments, but not always. These levers are actually [are] such that the state does not do much physically itself and for its own money, but it simply obliges, and these processes are very long-term. Now I'm gonna jump into 2002, when the Commander of the Defence Forces was Admiral Thunder. President Rüütel took office and asked the President for a security advisor. Since we had no people, the Commander of the Defence Forces appointed me, who I was then Deputy Chief of the Operational Department, to do this work in the spring of 2002. I had a conversation with the president, where he asked a simple question: Is war possible and when could it come? I told him yes, war is possible, I don't know when it's coming. This is, of course, my conclusion on the basis of the second war in Chechnya. Then President Rüütel asked me to make a thorough presentation of your father's Prime Minister at the time, which we have with broad-based national defence, then we called it total defence, and what we should do. I made this report. It took me almost the whole summer, all nights went to do it, it was 24 pages of classified text, and it had nine extras. Somewhere in the archives, you can still find it. I gave this report that was assigned to me, it was 1 hour and 20 minutes, because there were a lot of topics. I couldn't fit it in a shorter time. Maybe it was my fault that I told you too much about all this, but I made this report. In fact, some of the complaints that were now made to the Reform Party are in vain in the sense that the basic decisions on the dismantling of the Soviet civil defence system were taken much earlier. The fundamental decision was made in 1993 that we would not continue with the Soviet civil defence system, that we would simply phase it out. The second decision was in 1999 when strategic reserves, as bad or as good as they were, were privatized along with the warehouses and locations where they were located. In the context of this decision, there was also the privatisation of underground fuel tanks in Viimsi, which the respected businessman Endel Siff bought for about EEK 40 million. We imagine the real value of this asset at that time and now. All these processes took place and there was actually a simple explanation. The government listened to me, and I remember that feeling when I gave them that presentation. Of course, they didn't really laugh, but they didn't take it seriously. They just didn't believe everything I told them, from the fact that war may be possible and we don't know when it's coming, and this preparation is very long, and if we don't do any things, we won't see any results anytime soon. It's human. In fact, throughout this period, most politicians, civil servants, even some military personnel, have been convinced that war is not possible or is not possible, or if it does, it is some modest hybrid war scenario, perhaps small green men, or some sort of armed internal conflict. But since the second war in Chechnya... This war in Ukraine is by its very nature just as cruel; it does everything exactly as the Russian army and the state did in 1999-2001 in Chechnya, only tens of times larger. All these things are, of course, forgiven; the West has forgiven. After all, they were either Chechen nationalists or they were Islamic extremists, in general they were not so important people to whom we should have paid attention. It is not now helpful to blame one another for what he did or who did not do. It is at this stage empty work and mind chewing. It is simply that when we make fundamental decisions about matters, we are not seeing these results very quickly. I gave the same example of the Finns. If today the builders are obliged to build something, then all these processes will be slow and we will see these sheltered houses in five years' time, in ten years' time, in twenty years' time, in thirty years. But then again, if we don't make any decisions, we won't be able to see them anyway, and people are much more at risk. That is perhaps what I would like to put together: it is good that we have taken the first steps, but it is important to keep this course and just go ahead with these decisions. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Here, the state does not have to do so much itself, but to oblige its various subjects to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U278	Thank you. The Prime Minister has not asked for a final word. We will not negotiate any further on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U279	We will proceed with today's fourth item. This is an inquiry into police activities submitted on 10 February this year by members of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo, Reuben Kaalepi, Merry Aarti, Helle-Moonika Helme, Mart Helme, Paul Puustusmaa, Kalle Grünthali, Peeter Ernitsa and Henn Põlluaasa. On behalf of the heirs, a member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo, will perform and respond to the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani. Please, Kert Kingo!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The event and activities that prompted this inquiry to the Minister of the Interior took place almost two months ago, or on 3 February. According to § 2 (1) of the Law Enforcement Act, the prevention of threats to public order in law enforcement, the identification of threats in case of suspicion of a threat, the prevention of threats and the elimination of breaches of public order. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of the same section, the activities of a national law enforcement body are aimed at preventing, detecting, deterring or eliminating a threat. On 3 February 2022, the police were not guided by these values and by the law. Instead, we saw police officers attack people, pull down, give unreasonable and illegal orders, prevent peaceful people from exercising their legal rights, including the basic right to stay in public space. In short, the police themselves were a violation of public order and the law. And as a result of what took place on 3 February at Toompea, we asked the Minister for the Interior and we want answers to the questions we have asked concerning police action against the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U281	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U282	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioners! I'll go straight to the questions and answers. As a member of the Riigikogu introduced, this concerns police activity on 3 February in Toompea this year. I'm gonna read the questions and answer every question right now. The first question: "Why did the police close the streets to Toompea instead of arranging parking and traffic? " The answer. On 3 February this year, a protest in the form of a motorcade had not been notified by the organisers to the police and had not requested permission to hold a public meeting under the law on law enforcement [should have been carried out]. And it is known that such a public meeting is always at an increased risk of security when it involves the restructuring of traffic. The event of driving these cars to Toompea brought an estimated 200 vehicles to Tallinn, which wanted to get to Toompea. It is known that the number of parking places on Toompea is limited and the streets here are narrow. It is for this reason that the police temporarily restricted access to them by vehicles, and literally organised traffic during this event. It is important to bear in mind that at the same time, a duly registered public meeting took place in Toompea, attended by hundreds of people. In such a situation, it must always be prepared to provide operational and rapid assistance when someone needs it. It's hard to offer it on the narrow streets of the Old Town. And I would like to stress here that all those who wished to move to Toompea on foot all day and participate in demonstrations, as is the fundamental right of every human being. The second question: "Did a risk assessment of this event be carried out in advance? By whom did it come up? What were the results? " For the event of 3 February, the Police and Border Guard Board's Board of Border Guard Crisis Preparedness Office had produced pre-warning information describing potential threats, or describing what was on social media, as well as similar protests in other parts of the world. Question 3: "What is the starting point for police officers on Toompea Street 03.02.2022? What goals were used to set the initial task? " The answer. The primary task was to ensure public order and enforcement by police officers to ensure smooth traffic management. Vehicles were promised to Toompea until all legal parking spaces had been completed. Thereafter, residents and working people were allowed to travel to Toompea. When Toompea was then closed for traffic, the police moved the cars to nearby car parks. Again, everyone was able to walk into that demonstration. In short, according to the police's initial mandate, the aim was to prevent violation of the traffic law, to ensure public order and the safety of the participants in the registered demonstration. I mean, the ones who were up at the Toompea demonstration. Returning to why it is reasonable and useful for the organiser of the demonstration to inform the police of the planned demonstration, I will explain that the aim is simple: this way the police can also advise the organiser and draw attention to possible danger points. Unfortunately, it has to be said that the intention to drive cars in Tallinn to show reluctance to the corona restrictions was not notified to the police. However, the police were naturally aware of the call in the social media and also directed more patrols into traffic in order to prevent and detect possible violations. "What criteria were used to determine the composition and the number of teams sent to the event? " In deciding on the composition and size of the team, account was taken of the nature of the event as such, the size of the region, the number of people involved in the demonstration, the risks associated with the demonstration, for example, by cutting off ambulance and rescue services to Toompea. A total of 40 people from [regularity] participated in the event where the column moved from different Estonian points to Tallinn together, including the composition of the headquarters. Most of the police officers who participated there were those who were in their daily scheduled work, but were specifically assigned to this event. The following question: "What was the basis for deciding on the specific instruments to be used? What special equipment and equipment did the team send to the event have? A list, please. " The special equipment that police officers carry at such events is something that they basically carry on a daily basis and is attached to a belt of equipment, such as bandages, cuffs, firearms, a firearm, a gas weapon, or an electric shock weapon. So specifically, no special equipment was used by police patrols specifically for this event. Examples of special equipment include a service dog, which also carries policemen on patrol every day. "What was the violation of people on Toompea Street? What specific law and its passage were violated by these people? " Today, 55 misdemeanor proceedings have been opened, 37 of them have come to an end. 18 offences still pending, 15 of which are traffic offences. Among the rest is one procedure under § 275 of the Penal Code concerning the insult of a representative of the power, one procedure under § 262 of the Penal Code "Failure of the public order" and one procedure under § 2641 "Failure of the requirements for holding a public meeting." "How does police action 03.02.2022 match police values like humanity and wisdom on Toompea street? " The answer. The police are always a partner to the organisers of the demonstration, he is never a curfew or a commanding officer. At the same time, certain rules have been put together, both for protestors and for the protection of participants and bystanders. If there is a desire to protest, it must be done in such a way that the organisers of the demonstration are satisfied, the participants are satisfied and those who are not directly affected will also be satisfied. And the police are partners for everyone. The police don't take sides, but make sure it's safe, intervenes when there's a legal basis. "How is police action in this incident consistent with police objectives? The person is the most important, quick and wise help, and the right is on his feet? " Rapid and wise help and security were guaranteed, and the right was then and will continue to be established. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U283	There are questions. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U284	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The officials of the municipal police in Tallinn claim that before the demonstration the police were contacted with the municipal police office, people were invited to work, so to speak, to fine and so it was born. People who were stuck in traffic were fined because traffic had been stopped by the police and were fined for wrong parking. The question is whether it was now initiated by a police officer or whether it was the initiative of municipal police leaders. There are doubts, because this so-called convoy began to be rattled outside Tallinn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U285	Thank you for your question. The municipal police in Tallinn are certainly a very important partner for the police, but there is no relationship of subordination between them. Of course, the police can request that the municipal police be outside, be visible and act in accordance with the tasks assigned to them by law. I can't comment on whether people were called out for fines. I hope that people were not invited out for a fine, I mean the law enforcement unit of the city of Tallinn, mupo, but were still called out because they would be a partner to the police and contribute to the smoother management of traffic in Tallinn. So, once again, mypo was involved, but with the aim of ensuring that traffic was organised smoothly and that the police were, as it were, partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U286	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U287	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You yourself have repeatedly pointed out here that police are responsible for the smooth management of traffic. Usually when there is a song and dance party in Tallinn, traffic restructuring is announced early, i.e. road users are directed to other streets and it is all under control. This time, as you said yourself, the police were also aware that many cars would come towards Tallinn. Did the police even handle traffic restructuring? According to you, you just closed the road. But I'm very interested because you announced that these roads were closed and closed? Who did you call? In what ways and channels? When did all this become known that these cars knew these roads were closed? How did you get back into traffic?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U288	Thank you for your question. At the beginning of the question, there was a reference to a dance and song party. It is a big difference that there is a specific organiser at a song and dance, who actually does all this great work: traffic plans, traffic management, takes as a specific partner a security company, coordinates all the different activities with the road owners, usually with the local government. The biggest minus of this event was that there was no organizer. The police knew this, and the police repeatedly reported it on social media, both on the day before and on the day of the event, saying that there might be congestion. The police also dealt with prevention a lot. He was communicating with people who were on social media like the people who were involved in organising this car convoy. Already on the road, there were contacts with these people, as well as in car parks where there were gathering places. So the police were very active in preventive action. And once again, during this day, social media repeatedly reported where traffic jams were and where it is not reasonable to come at any time by car. So I'm saying that the police were actually doing a lot of traffic management that day.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U289	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U290	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question concerns the handcuffing of one person when he was surrounded by the so-called Special Forces and left the car calmly, and then he was cuffed and delivered to the police bus. The law states that handcuffs may be used if there are reasonable grounds to believe that they are attacking another person, are physically resisting law enforcement officials, or are harming a high value asset, may escape or be injured or killed. I didn't see in this video that this person was responding to those traits that the law allows handcuffs to be used. Why was that citizen handcuffed when he volunteered to come out and get on that bus?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U291	Thank you for your question. In law enforcement law, one of the basic and best principles is that it is very important to choose different measures how a particular police officer feels at a particular point in time in a particular context. It is very difficult for me to answer that question, which must be asked by this particular person. He's the one who's been given that right by law enforcement. It needs to assess very specifically what the situation on the ground is and what measures, in this case, it will use the specific instruments. It was decided to use handcuffs this time. The duration of use of handcuffs is also very specifically regulated, it must be fixed and used exactly as much as necessary and as little as possible. On the basis of what the law provides, it was [acted].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U292	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much to the Minister. Now we can open negotiations. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U293	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, the moment is really frustrating for me to discuss the activities of the police here. And this police action has been a disgrace. On 3 February, the minister himself announced that they had early knowledge that cars were coming. I'm sure they also knew that there was a form of demonstration involving cars. It's Canadian. I would like to remind the Minister of the Interior once again that not all demonstrations need to be registered, so you can simply express your mind. Everything doesn't have to be arranged, it's not a violation. And now the question arises: if the police had enough information, the police knew that there would be a lot of cars, more cars than usual in one particular area of Tallinn, then what did the police do to avoid it? What did the police do to ensure smooth traffic management in the city's picture, so that the people of Tallinn were not disturbed and the normal rhythm of traffic among people in Tallinn was ensured? Nothing! The police just shut down the road, maybe the police provoked it. I would point out: the police knew there would be a lot of cars, and knew what purpose they would come with. But they just closed the road. If I now turn to it, as the Minister mentioned here, that there was a registered demonstration in Toompea, I do not know exactly what street it was on. Yeah, it was, and nothing happened, nothing happened, everything was correct. But now that this demonstration was over and people walked down Mount Toompea, what happened? Then the police, who should ensure the safety of these same people, began to maintain order, as you yourself pointed out, to pick on these people, to provoke them, to use physical force against them, to threaten them. The police did not deal with order, security, security and smooth traffic management. We reached this stage by looking at police action that the person who had driven the car up the hill of Toompea, given that the police had informed that traffic had been reorganized and that these roads were impenetrable, but, as it were, under the wrong name of parking, the person was detained, handcuffed, and, in the eyes of everyone, the person was most likely transported to the police station and, quite possibly, to the detention house. The car was taken into police custody and moved. It's a total violation. How can it be said that this is order making that it is a sense of security? No, it's scaring, it's scaring the people. What did people have to think? There were so many children, there were so many women. The police come in uniforms, full of guns, full of guns to their teeth, all kinds of places full of guns, dogs with them. The kids were crying hysterical. I've seen all these videos. That's one part, they were people without cars that were brutalized there. The second place was with the cars that had come to this demonstration. These cars were driving in different places in Tallinn, and instead of ensuring smooth traffic, the police stopped these drivers, causing even greater traffic congestion. Absolute unprofessionalism. Of course, I wouldn't want to accuse police officers here because they have to follow orders from their superiors. And here we come to the fact that not police officers are unprofessional, but our police leaders are absolutely incompetent and want to be violent. They've made the police the people's scareners, not the public's protectors. This is unfortunately the case for today, and it is really sad to look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U294	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U295	More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U296	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U297	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of the Interior! Thank you first for the answers you gave, but I must admit that, frankly, they do not correspond to the events that actually happened. Unfortunately, through the mainstream media, a picture of the Estonian people who participated in the demonstrations at Toompea that day was designed as a huge pack of hooligans against whom, in the opinion of the police administration, it was and is justified to use the measures that were used there. But there are two sides to each coin, and I want to say that, in fact, what was done by the police leadership, we still call it a police operation, actually groping about violations of the law. First of all, I would like to draw the honourable Minister's attention to [one thing]. He referred here to the fact that there was a registered demonstration organised by Varro Vooglas, and then a number of other people who drove cars to Tallinn and wanted to attend the meeting as well, and he found it to be an unauthorized demonstration. May I remind you, Minister, that you are wrong. In fact, § 47 of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to meet peacefully and to hold meetings without prior permission. It was a constitutional right used by the people at the time. But let's keep going. The next thing is that you answered the question of how it was carried out and so on, that [it was intended] to block [the road and] to prevent vehicles from going there. I object to the fact that the conduct of the police's leadership was contrary to the law. First of all, traffic control means, i.e. the corresponding means of transport, signs must close the entrance and this should be a sufficient basis. The fact that there are two or three police cars that, if necessary, simply run their noses against each other and prevent vehicles from passing through is not traffic management. And since I've been going through a lot of videos in detail, I can tell you that they made choices there too. Those cars that wore the Estonian flag or some kind of convoy symbolism were not allowed to pass through. But all the others who moved without such a mark were allowed to pass through. Go on. I could not fully understand the threat to public order. The threat to public order lies in a wide range of criteria [if any] and is also enshrined in the Law on Law Enforcement. There is an important threat, an increased threat, an immediate threat, a suspicion of a threat and so on. But the question is, what was the threat assessment? There was also a kind of ban on stays, because some people were not allowed to a really registered demonstration. The prohibition of stay within the meaning of the Law Enforcement Act is that the police may prohibit the stay of persons [where] if [it is necessary] to identify or control an increased threat. We must therefore be guided by a criterion such as the increased risk. And what is the heightened threat, Minister? It is a threat to a person's life, physical integrity, physical freedom, a high value asset, a major environmental damage or a first-degree crime. To ask, good minister, did this threat assessment answer to such signs? I'm saying there's been a complete violation of this threat assessment by the police administration. I stress, by the police board. If there was such a danger as I described here, there could always have been a change in the time or place of the meeting under the law of order, or a ban on the meeting, but that was not done. This is where, according to the so-called proportionality principle, the police leadership has made a huge mistake in its plan. Next, I can claim that the police administration had ordered its subordinates to provoke a conflict with the people. How do I conclude that? The point is, as I pointed out in my question, there was a problem with a citizen who tried to drive his car to Toompea, but he was not allowed through. And at one point, when the police task force surrounded him and saw the means of breaking the glass in the hands of the policemen, the man opened the door of his car, came out calmly, and at that moment he was simply cuffed. Minister Jaani has just answered that this is a matter of every police officer's guts, whether he sees a threat or doesn't see it. But what danger can there be from a citizen surrounded by seven or eight commandos, and then he gets cuffed? By the way, handcuffs can only be used if there are reasonable grounds to believe that a person is attacking other persons or law enforcement or physically resisting an official or causing serious damage to property. There was no such thing. What I'm saying is that it was a pure violation of the law. That's one. And secondly, the police leadership ordered that the people be provoked in the same way as they did in last year's spring demonstrations in the Liberty Square. Never should this citizen have been taken away by car because there was no need for it. All the procedural acts that that citizen committed there could have been freely recorded on the police bus. It was a pure provocation in the hope that as a result, the people would attack them and be protected from [reflex] their own people. It was a total provocation from the police board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U298	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U299	Mr. President! Minister, thank you very much. Colleagues! I have to admit, Mr. Minister's answers were smooth, but the real picture is distorting. And the distortion of the actual picture began from the moment the minister claimed that the police were out in charge of traffic. The police weren't running traffic outside. The police were probably outside on orders from the top to stop traffic. It would have been very easy to shift traffic to certain streets, even here on the slope of Toompea to Falg Road, to Toompea Street, to Kiek in de Kök. It would have fit here, I can imagine, a hundred cars parked peacefully. The cars could also have been diverted to the former sobering house here on Wismar Street. This could have been done with signs, could have been done with prior information, and could, of course, have been done with the well-meaning management of police officers. "Fellas, you wanna go up to the Toompea demonstration? You can't drive cars there, there's a lot of people out there, we're taking you to park there, there, there, and there. " This conflict would not have arisen. Somehow the police didn't anticipate such opportunities with their "professional" threat assessment. And this inevitably leads to the thoughts of what Mr Grünthal mentioned in particular, that the aim was not to organise the event smoothly, but to provoke the conflict and, above all, to intimidate the members of the motor convoy. I also personally know a number of people who participated in this event, both at a registered event and at an unregistered event, and I can assure you that the police were once again apparently operating under orders received from the top in a picky, petty, spiteful manner. Cars were searched to find a reason to cancel an on-site inspection. And then they said, "But without inspection, my friend, you can't drive. Take a cab. The car stays here. " Then came mypo or some ordered transport company who dragged these cars into the parking lot. And people were subjected to misdemeanor procedures. When they got into an argument, it was even tougher procedures. And they were charged fines of 400 euros, who paid 500 euros, also paid for transporting the car to the parking lot. It was not, Minister, the smooth management of traffic. It was spiteful picking on people, scaring people, taking away people's desire to protest. Let's call things right. And, in fact, political responsibility for this lies with the Minister and also with the Prime Minister, of course. But in Estonia, especially as Kaja Kallas said today, during the "my government" he still has my government, we, I remember, had our government, but he has "my government" in this so-called my government has become the custom of bullying and intimidation. Now I'm going to do a little theme extension. We have 9th of May ahead of us. Does the police carry out a threat assessment in which it also provides for the use of special equipment? I remember last week, Minister, we were on a television show together, and there you said such words that when some auntie, Georgi's tape, comes to bring flowers, we'll talk to her. But what are you gonna talk to him about? Cuff him. Cuff him! Drag him away, confiscate all of his flowers and Georgi's tape and slippers and braids. Everybody take it off! Maybe he's dangerous to himself. Maybe he's making himself some kind of harakiri. That's what you did in the Freedom Square in April a year ago. Now, there were no restrictions on law enforcement to take away some mannerg to drag a man into a police bus, take his body naked, control the cavities. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U300	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U301	Then there was no problem. I don't know, for some reason, you can treat Estonians like this. In fact, with peaceful, actually law-abiding citizens, this can be done. But the Russians don't have the guts, I don't know, maybe in Moscow somebody's gonna upset you, kick your ass on the ground, and then there's gonna be chins falling all over everybody. That's the kind of double standard, that's the kind of bullying your people, that's what's irritating. And what happened on February 3rd? After all, the crowd was upset when that boy came out of the car. We have, I believe, mostly seen this video, and repeatedly. They drove him into a box. I thought he really wanted to turn down Toompea and drive away. Maybe I'm wrong. But he was driven into a box by police cars, and then he came out because the cops were threatening to approach there. There was a danger that his car's glass would be smashed. And then they cuffed him. Well, why? Why didn't you talk to him? Why didn't you talk to him?! Why didn't you listen to what he said? He might have said to you policemen, "Friends, yes, I was wrong. I was a little brave. Let me get out of here. " You would have let him leave, and there would have been no shooting at the police with snowballs. Journalismal exaggerations, but that's right. Snowballs flew. Oh, you poor policemen! That's the point of asking. Minister, submit to the police's political leadership, not to the police's political leadership. Refer to the political leadership of the police leaders, which is governed by the laws and humanity in force in the Republic of Estonia and is free from the will of spite and intimidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U302	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. The Minister has requested a word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U303	Good President! Here's a few more details. There was a constitutional mention here, and there are indeed different rights in the Constitution, but all rights, including freedom of assembly, are not absolute in the Constitution, but the law of law introduces differences. And these differences relate to when a public meeting must be notified and when it does not have to be informed. Non-communication is only possible if there is no sound technique, no sound amplification, no traffic restructuring, no stage building and so on. In that case, it is indeed not necessary to inform them. So once again: in the Constitution, not all rights and freedoms are absolute, but special laws regulate them a little. I'm sure the police leadership didn't provoke anyone for any kind of action. Again, law enforcement is a good law in the sense that it makes a specific police officer think, act on his own. One of the values of the police is that the police officer acts precisely on the basis of what he sees in this situation and in this context. I certainly wouldn't want it to get out of here like it was trying to provoke someone. No, absolutely not. In the previous days, prevention was carried out, and the same day [participants] were discussed with people, social media included announcements and all such issues. Once again, if there had been a specific organiser at this event, it would certainly have been possible to streamline traffic. But the organiser himself also has a lot of obligations to fulfil: traffic plans, coordination, permission from the local government, or, if there is a state route, from the Transport Department. All of this can be done if there is an organiser. Everything would have been smoother. The police did as much as they could, smoothing it down, pointing the cars where they could park. As far as there was room, people were allowed to go to Toompea. So once again, the police acted very professionally at this event, using all measures, including explanations and prevention. And when it was necessary to intervene to ensure the safety of all people, so did the intervention. And the media picture also showed how the police were insulted, how the police were stopped, how the police were attacked. This is all the other side, which was also seen in the media and social media. So many more details. But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U304	We have all heard the speeches. I'm closing the negotiations. This point is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U305	The fifth item today is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Henn Põlleasa, Martin Helme, Urmas Reitelmann, Leo Kunnase, Siim Pohlak, Uno Kaskpeiti, Merry Aarti, Kalle Grünthali, Jaak Valge, Paul Puustusmaa, Alar Lanemani, Anti Polandmets, Reuben Kaalepi, Riho Breiveli, Helle-Moonika Helme, Rene Koka and Mart Helme into the legality of the activities of the police director. As the representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu's speech chair Henn Põlluaasa, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U306	Thank you. When the previous question was about the police's injustice and the harassment of people, the question is about the bullying of policemen, the bullying of subordinates by the police chief, the chief. According to the Police and Border Guard Act, police services are a special type of public service where, like other officials, a certain period of work and rest applies. The same law provides for a restriction on a police officer, which is a prohibition on being a member of a party, and no more restrictions on police officers are imposed by law. Of course, police officers also enjoy all constitutional rights in parallel, such as the right to free self-realisation, family and privacy, and so on. On 7 February this year, the media published [information] on a case where Prefect Vallo Koppel of the Southern Precinct reduced or omitted the performance fees of police officers working under his authority and because the policemen went shopping outside Estonia. Prefect's message to the officials was that it was unethical for the state official to withdraw money from Estonia, and it was punished by reducing or withdrawing the bonus or the performance fee. We all know it's stupid. And illegal. And, therefore, we have the right number of questions for the Minister. What law results from a prohibition on police officers to decide on their own leisure activities and the use of money? Who has imposed a rule in the police that it is unethical to withdraw money from Estonia as a state official? Maybe traveling in the first place is unethical and unacceptable to travel abroad? Is it ethical for the chief of police, Vallo Koppel, to demand one from the subordinates and to act the opposite? The media and also social media have been through that, at the same time or even now at exactly the same time, police Prefect Koppel has been spotted shopping in Latvian border shops. Is what is promised to Jupiter not allowed to the bull? Is that how life works in the police? There's a whole series of questions. I'm not going to read them out here. I hope that the Minister will do so, and I hope to hear some substantive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U307	Please, Kristian Jaani!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U308	Good President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioners! I'll make a brief introduction and then I'll go straight to the questions. The inquiry refers to the stories on 22 December of last year and 7 February of that year on the "Kuuurija" programme concerning the Southern Prefect. I would point out that the explanations and views provided by the Prefect of the Police and Border Guard Board were very relevant. I'm not going to repeat everything here, but of course I'll answer the questions. It is not possible to comment further on the question of the result wage of the former police officer who requested anonymity in today's inquiry, as it is not possible to objectively verify the claims on the basis of anonymity. I would add that the Internal Control Office of the Police and Border Guard Board has confirmed that the South Prefecture of the Police and Border Guard Board has not failed to pay performance wages on the grounds that the staff member has purchased goods from abroad. The Internal Control Office of the Police and Border Guard Board has checked the facts in the story and it has not been established in the course of this exercise that the Prefect of the South Prefecture has lied or concealed matters concerning his or her visit abroad. But specific questions and answers. "Which law gives rise to a prohibition for police officers to decide on their own leisure and use of money? " The answer. I assure you that the staff working at the Police and Border Guard Board have, of course, the right to decide on their own time and use of money. The second question: "Does the police chief have the right to interfere with the privacy of his subordinates and to restrict them in this regard? What kind of law? " I will answer. As far as I know, the PBGB does not interfere with the privacy of its servants, and that would not be right. "Who decides on the payment or non-payment of performance fees to police officers and on what basis? Who's gonna confirm the motion? " The answer. The payment of performance fees to a police officer shall be based on the salary guidelines of the Police and Border Guard Board approved by the Minister of the Interior on 27 December 2016 by decree No 160 of the Minister of the Interior, according to which the direct manager of a staff member shall submit a proposal for the determination of the performance salary, together with a statement of reasons, to the Head of the Structural Unit. Proposals for performance salaries of staff of the structural unit shall be submitted by the Head of the structural unit to the Prefect or to the Head of the department's office, who shall decide on the award of the performance salary. Next question: "Who in the police has established the rule that taking money out of Estonia as a state official is unethical? What law has been applied? " As regards ethics, the PPP is based on current rules of procedure, which describe general codes of conduct. Paragraph 77 of the Rules of Procedure provides that a staff member must behave with dignity in his service, in employment and beyond, including by refraining from any action that would discredit him as a servant or damage the reputation of the police. Question: "Is it ethical for a police chief to demand one thing from his subordinates and to act the other way round? " Certainly not, that is not the way it should be. Question 6: "Is lying to a police chief in public media and twisting matters in line with police ethics and values? "I know that the quality of the management culture and its development is very important in the PBA, including ethical behaviour. And I repeat, as far as I know, the Southern Prefect has not behaved unethically. As I mentioned above, the PPA's Internal Control Office has also reviewed this issue. Question: "Is there a disciplinary procedure against Prefect Vallo Koppel in this case? " I come back to what has been mentioned above that the PPA's internal control has checked the facts, and it has not been found that the Prefect of the Southern Prefecture had lied or concealed the circumstances surrounding his visit abroad. Thank you. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U309	And questions begin with Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U310	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The answers are smooth, but in the national language it is called circular defence. And if you claimed that the police would not interfere with the privacy of their employees, that is not true. The police's vaccination hour, which has also been a very acute issue in the Defence Forces and some other places, is interference in people's privacy. It's forcing people to do things they don't like, but they're threatening to fire them. So in that sense, I will correct your position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U311	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U312	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is certainly not news to you, it is not news to me and it has not been news to many people who have worked in public offices that a simple worker always loses. That's clear. The winner and the right person are always the driver, and in the case of the driver, the circular protection is always made to cover every possible, say, gaps or weak spots. But we saw from "The Moon Investigator" that Katrin Lus, a journalist, had made inquiries about the prefect's moves. The mere fact that three different versions came to this visit suggests that this is not right and fair, because it is not possible to come up with three different versions. Explain to me anyway, do you mean to say that the police officers did not take off the reward, or are you saying that the Prefect did not go to the other country to buy the goods himself, while he forbids his subordinates to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U313	Thank you for your question. When the performance fee is awarded, the person receives the performance fee. There's no way you can take the reward off a person afterwards. It would be very complicated. And, of course, the award of a performance fee is indeed a separate process when it comes to meeting, to see if a person has acted in accordance with the arrangements for paying the performance fee, and then a decision is made that he will be paid. There may certainly be cases where the performance fee applied for is decided not to be paid. It is not absolute that a person is always paid a performance fee. Once again, internal control has fully assessed this situation. Internal control is objective. When we talk about the date being spoken of in different times, indeed, the first queries [answers] that came about on this subject spoke of one date, they were corrected by the second date, and ultimately the fact was that Southern Prefect Vallo Koppel went on a foreign trip to Latvia to carry out his duties on third dates. So one thing is what was presented as a fact that didn't prove right was rejected and so on and so forth. However, I would argue that the debate on this subject has been very thorough.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U314	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U315	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Are you now suggesting that the person who appeared in "The Moon Explorer" as an anonymous police officer who went to Latvia to buy construction material that he lied to "The Moon Explorer"? Hasn't there been an event like this that I don't know what was taken away from him?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U316	Thank you for your question. What I said in my reply was that it would be very difficult to check the questions raised or the information provided if it was not known who specifically gave this information and what its content was. It was given anonymously. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U317	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U318	Thank you. Good President! Minister, thank you very much. The fifth question was whether it was ethical for the chief of police to ask the subordinates to do one thing and to act the other way round. You said it certainly shouldn't be like this. Then why didn't you give that opinion to internal control? You're still saying that's not exactly the way things were, but it sounds very much like a circle defence and a cover-up. Maybe in the future, you'd still look around a little harder to keep things like this from actually happening.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U319	Thank you. I really want to confirm that there must be no such thing as circular protection. All charges and questions must be objectively reviewed, and indeed a separate unit has been set up for that purpose, which is what the internal police office is for.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U320	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. However... Mr. Grünthal, I'd like to ask you a little faster sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U321	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I listened to your answers to the question. And if I hadn't personally seen that Moon Explorer show, there would be nothing to blame for. Everything seems legitimate, everything's fine, absolutely nothing's been there. Some anonymous policemen are complaining to "The Moon Explorer," and eventually it turns out nothing's happened after all. But here, good minister, actually, the police system is coming up with different circular defenses. For example, if the people conflict with the private police, the police administration basically protects its structure completely. If police officers have any problem with their actions in the field, and if police leaders are involved in the criticism, then another defence system will be put in place, where a line of police will be sidelined because there is a need to protect the leadership. That's not good enough. You said the internal security didn't detect anything. But he can't be identified because police officers are forbidden to criticize their superiors. They are forbidden to do so. And what they will have to do if they actually see a lot of injustice, where they treat private cops the same way, when they refuse, but high officials can do what they forbid their subordinates. I saw the Moon Explorer very clearly, and I also remember it very clearly, that the policeman who wished to remain anonymous announced that he had gone from Latvia to buy building material because it was cheaper there. Well, considering the cops already hired them, I think he made the right move. He did, but it takes away some kind of paycheck for a reason, it's a disgrace! That money should be left in Estonia. At least that's what Prefect Vallo Koppel said in the media. Of course, there was another nuance that came out that people would also go to Russia to buy goods that had their permits. I didn't say a word about that right now. But it was also banned, basically under the same ban, because there was a reference to a security threat in which law enforcement could cross the border. I admit it may be true, but if a regular cop goes to Latvia, what danger can it pose? I might even understand, although it is incomprehensible, the behaviour of Vallo Koppel, who has taken down this reward when he himself, going to Riga to visit his colleagues, buys alcohol on the way to Riga. What difference does it make, what amount, but he bought it. That's not good enough. And the other thing is, of course, these cops will remain anonymous. There's nothing to do, nobody wants to lose their jobs, and that's why I.A. won't identify them as so-called complainers. I would be very pleased if this thing remained so that they would not be let go later because of this honesty and because of the double-crossing of their superiors. Good Minister, please look around in your field. It's high time you did a serious cleanup in this group of police leaders. Just as in Greek mythology Hercules did when he cleaned the stables. With this attitude and behaviour, the police are losing even more prestige, but right now it is still within your power, good minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U322	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We have exhausted the fifth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U323	Our sixth item on the agenda today is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Heiki Hepner, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa and Andres Metsoja about the population crisis. Please, Heiki Hepner!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U324	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, against the background of the current war in Ukraine, some issues may seem like secondary issues, but the population crisis and the related issues certainly cannot be. The population of Estonia was 1328439 this year on 1 January. The decrease was 1629 people. Terje Trasberg, the leading analyst at Statistics Estonia, has pointed out that the high mortality rate and the birth rate that remained at the same level in recent years led to negative natural growth. A positive balance of migration was added to it, but even so, Estonia's population decreased. A year ago, the Riigikogu stopped working on the problem committee of [solving] population crisis and the seat of the Minister of Population was abolished. In order to clarify these decisions, a statement was made that the Minister for Social Protection will be involved in the coordination of population policy in the future. Therefore, Minister, it is your responsibility to create and ensure the necessary conditions and remove the obstacles that prevent Estonian families from having as many children as they would like. We've given you five points here. I'm not going to read them one by one right now, I'm just going to refer them briefly so I can understand what our question is about. First of all, I would really like to have an overview of the steps taken by the Minister for Social Protection and the Committee on Government of Population Policy. What initiatives have been taken, where have they been achieved and what are the real objectives? The key to resolving the population crisis is that of families rich in children. Nothing [is to be done] can be over or around the fact that money is important for families with children. Today we are again coming to a situation where, in fact, these subsidies have not been indexed. And when we look at the inflation that has now come straight to the sky, it really makes you wonder. The same could actually be considered both in the context of the support of the first and second children and in the context of the support of the single parent. How is it planned to proceed here, and what are the next steps? We would also like to see an overview of family policy. The programme of action of the Government of the Republic includes special attention to vulnerable families, single parents and families with many children. We would still like to have an overview of what this special attention really means. And lastly, let's ask how the cooperation with the local governments has gone. Municipalities cannot be overlooked when we talk about population issues. What steps have been taken? What is the quality of these steps? How do our authorities seem to avoid deepening the population crisis and ultimately getting out of this crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U325	Please answer the questions of Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U326	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu who are currently in this Chamber! I hope there's a little more people at a distance in their rooms. There is, of course, a beautiful desire for us to get out of the population crisis and for the birth to be more so that our population grows. But we all obviously understand that this is among the problems that are extremely complex. But then I'll go to the questions. The first question: "For the first time, the Social Protection Minister's Committee on Population Policy met in August. What steps have you taken with this Commission, which initiatives have taken? " The Demographic Policy Government Committee has gathered twice, but work started well earlier, already a year ago in the spring. One important stage was certainly the preparation of the Commission, the setting up of this committee legally, the formulation of the objectives of the work, all of which took place last spring. The first meeting took place on 16 August 2021, with an overview of the objectives of the Commission's work and the vision and contribution of each member to its work. An overview was given of the priorities of family policy, the state of play in the population. The topics to be dealt with in the future were currently the subject of migration and adaptation, but the Estonian diaspora [the topic] is also important. The promotion and discussion of the area related to the population of the welfare development plan was also left behind. The second meeting took place on 2 February 2022. There, the Commission received an overview of migration, global Estonianism and measures for new immigrants and returnees and plans to improve them. The third meeting is scheduled to take place next week in April. The plan is to conduct a well-being development plan prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs together with good partners in order to obtain the evaluation and guidance of the government committee. A fourth meeting is also under preparation, where it is planned to move on to issues such as labour and learning migration and specifically to take the security context aside. The war had not started in Ukraine at the time the plans were made, but when we agreed on these issues on 2 February, we had already taken into account that there might be changes that specifically concern migration. The second question: "Does the government intend to modernise the support of a family rich in children and has indexing of support been considered? If so, when will these plans come into effect and will the budget provide for this? " My third question is, " Does the government plan to increase the support of the first and second children and review the support of a single parent? If so, when will these plans come into effect and will the budget provide for this? " The answer. Long-term plans in the field of children and families are part of a well-being development plan, focusing on promoting the rights and well-being of the child, developing child protection and child care, and improving the livelihood of families. The aim is for Estonia to be a good place to start a family and raise children and for Estonian children to be happy, growing up in a caring, inclusive, secure and developing environment. In recent years, family policy has put a great deal of emphasis on improving the parental benefit and leave system in order to support more effectively flexible ways of reconciling work and family life and a more equal distribution of care burden between mother and father when raising a young child. The amendments to the final phase entered into force on 1 April. The welfare of families with children is greatly affected by economic coping, especially families with fewer supporters than dependants, such as single-parent families and child-rich families, whose coping depends to a large extent on state support. In order to increase children's well-being and family confidence and to value children and raising children, it is important to maintain the real value of child benefits and support for a family rich in children, even in the event of an increase in the cost of living. This principle is also included in the long-term development plan for the sector. While the support of a family rich in children, which came into force in 2017, has been an important measure to improve the lives of families with children, the support of a single parent, which today stands at 19 euros and 18 cents, has remained unchanged for many years. Measures to support single parents need to be modernised as a whole, and this activity is in the work plan of the Government of the Republic this year. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, we will review the current principles of survivor's pension and child allowance for single parents in a comprehensive manner and by the end of this year we will develop proposals for a modernised support measure based on the needs of the target group, after which we will be able to move forward with legislative changes. What exactly will they be, it will be clear by the end of the year at the latest. We also participate in a service design programme coordinated by the State Chancellery. We also carry out a survey of the household picture of families with children, involving single parents, which gives us a better overview of the causes of single parenthood and the needs of parents raising children alone and helps to develop a better support measure. At the moment, the Riigikogu is dealing with a draft with which we wish to extend the regulation of maintenance assistance from 1 July... I'm sorry, these answers have been written earlier, I was hoping to come to you earlier, the bill has already been processed by you. Thank you. But [it is] the Family Benefits Act, which entered into force on 1 April. The related regulation is also the payment of maintenance assistance to children whose parents do not fulfil their maintenance obligations under the Family Law and who are in bankruptcy proceedings. The aim of the proposed regulation is to reduce the poverty of parents raising children alone and their children by ensuring that they are better able to cope with the payment of child support. Question 4: "The previous government prepared a vision, strategy and action plan for family policies that support the birth rate. How far have you come with these initiatives? What are your vision and possible measures to increase the birth rate? " The well - being of children and families and the future prospects of children are greatly influenced by the material security of families. It is true that public family benefits help to compensate for the costs of caring for, raising and studying children. However, we must not forget that the quality of family relationships and parental skills also affect the well-being and development of the child. Good family relations contribute to the well-being of all family members and thus contribute to the birth of the next children. Today, there is still a lack of parental education and general support for parenthood in the case of parents of children of different ages. To predict risks to the child's well-being and development, we contribute to parenting. Studies show that parents need and want more advice and help in raising their children, but do not know where to turn or dare to ask for help. Important activities are the development of programmes to support parenting for parents of children of all ages and the improvement of their universal availability. Current activities will continue, including increasing the volume and scale of the "Smart Older" parenting programme and the home page, the development of children's and family specialists on parental education to support parental education through short-term interventions, counselling, training, conferences and information telephones. We support the creation of community prevention and family work centres, where families are provided with timely, appropriate and professional support in raising children, parenting and partnering and supporting their developmental needs. The National Family Conciliation Act enters into force on 1 September 2022. [Permission will be indicated] to all parties in an emotionally and physically secure environment, helping parents to make the best possible arrangements for their children's development needs. In addition, family mediation helps children to cope more easily with their parents'breakup. Reform of support systems for children with special needs is also underway. We create a support system for children with special needs that allows for rapid identification of needs for assistance, facilitates access to appropriate assistance and ensures the necessary support measures, in particular at the child's daily place of stay. By the end of 2022, a model of day-round service for children with high needs and complex problems, including mental health problems, will be developed, covering the services of the so-called "therapy home" and "closed childcare facility." 2021/2023. The Norwegian Support Mechanism has also been funded by a project to develop newcomers' home visits, which will develop an operational model to screen and mitigate the risks to the well-being of the child's family, through repeated postpartum visits to midwives, in cooperation with local authorities and health authorities. In the area of replacement care, the Social Insurance Board has launched a pilot project for crisis families and professional special-care families to find more care families for children with the greatest need to support them as much as possible. In the second half of 2022, the Social Insurance Board will extend the activities of children's houses to Western Estonia. As we know, this is an activity that involves helping sexually abused children. The Victim Assistance Act will also be updated in 2022, which will extend the scope for assistance, including psychological assistance, to victims who have experienced domestic violence, including children. We will update the organisation of child protection to ensure effective and targeted support for children in need of assistance in cross-sectoral cooperation. We want to improve the conditions for the payment of early childhood parents' sickness and care benefits after returning from parental leave to work. Difficulties in returning to working life can negatively affect family planning decisions and reduce the likelihood of the birth of subsequent children. There are also several and several other lines of action and initiatives that work, all of which directly or indirectly affect Estonian families and their decisions to become part of the family. There's only one side to the economy. The other side of planning to expand the family is certainly how secure the environment is for raising children. We have been active on this side. Two years ago, the Minister of Population started working with local governments to map the measures offered by local governments to families and to ensure a more uniform quality in Estonia. Further steps have also been taken in this direction. I would stress that local authorities are autonomous in the interests of their population, including having quite wide-ranging responsibilities to ensure the well-being of children and families under the Child Protection Act that has been in force for several years. Local authorities make a significant contribution to ensuring the well-being of children and families, including child protection. Local authorities carry out important legal tasks in this area and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Board cooperate with them on an ongoing basis. Our aim is to ensure that children's well-being is guaranteed evenly across Estonia. To this end, we have started a thorough review of the Child Protection Act at the Ministry of Social Affairs with the aim of clarifying the tasks of local authorities in ensuring the well-being of children and child welfare, in order to ensure the timely sighting and support of children and families in need of assistance, as well as to harmonise the quality of child protection work across Estonia and to support the specialists involved in this work. The development of services and measures for children and families will also continue at national level, which will be brought to people in cooperation with local authorities. Public budget and European Social Fund funds support the development and creation of community-based prevention and family work centres at local level in the years 2023 to 2027 by providing integrated health and social services prior to and after the birth of the child. The aim is to improve the well-being of children and families and to improve the quality of life, thereby ensuring a more uniform access to services across the country. Thank you. I'm waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U327	Start Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U328	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The activities that were all read out there are pretty good. We no longer have this committee on the problem of the population crisis. But in the meantime, I've become a member of the board of the Fatherland Family Association. And I'm going to ask you this. We know that a large number of war refugees have come to us, and if they now spread evenly across Estonia like this, then [maybe] people will find each other and they will come, which means that their children will be Estonian citizens in accordance with our laws. What should be the first steps to ensure that these new families are Estonian-minded and Estonian-speaking?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U329	Thank you very much for your question. It is not difficult to answer that question. If a citizen of any country who has come here in this case we are talking about a Ukrainian refugee in war who has really come here from very difficult conditions, but in the case of a citizen of any country, if he or she wishes to establish a family here and he or she finds himself or herself a part of an Estonian, then the first tasks are to learn the Estonian language, find a job here and be a caring and loving husband and parent.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U330	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U331	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! What do you think population policy involves or contains, and what would be the criteria on which you assess yourself as a minister, how have you managed to implement population policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U332	Thank you for your question. Population policy is certainly a wider area than the day-to-day work of the Minister for Social Protection. In addition to births and deaths, migration aspects and migration, not only cross-border but also internal migration, must be looked at. Similarly, it is very important to look at how our families cope and what it is like to have a well-being that is linked to different public services, including public health, healthcare in a wider sense, which, while guaranteeing a longer life span, does not necessarily lead to healthy life years. Thus, public health is a very important aspect. What criteria? I think it is the job of the Minister to keep this subject under constant focus. To this end, the Commission has also been set up to involve other ministers and ministries. When we talk about migration, it is largely in the area of the Minister of the Interior, when we talk about integration, language learning for new immigrants or returning to our countrymen, or also about working with our countrymen across borders, it is the job of the Minister of Culture. But I believe that both the ministers I mentioned are extremely competent and very motivated to promote life in their fields.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U333	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U334	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! Well, of course, it's nice to hear the slogans that children's well-being increases and family benefits increase and keep the subject in focus. But where are the results? Where are the results, the real results, when we talk about the situation where we are? By the way, last year, according to Statistics Estonia, 13138 children were born in Estonia. Do you know when so few children were born in Estonia? We've been living under your liberal sun for 30 years. And what are the biggest and most important things that have caught my eye? That during that time, children's health care has become worse. The psychiatric situation has gotten so bad that children have to go to a psychiatrist without their parents' permission. The drop in birth rate is catastrophic. If this is not a crisis situation, I do not know what else to call it. Do you agree that this is actually a population crisis? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And what more could you, as Minister, do to avoid that? Tell me what you've done more!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U335	Thank you for your question. I don't know how I put myself that way. I have not, in fact, allowed the growth of children's benefits directly. Of course, we have to review them from time to time, but I have not made that promise here and now. When we talk about family expansion and family planning and look at what has been our last few years, the COVID has not been more secure, the energy crisis has not been security-enhancing, and it is not even a war in Europe. So when we think about why families make choices not to give birth to children, we can look for reasons for this general sense of security. And what can be dealt with by the Minister for Social Protection is the creation of a sense of security. This is what we can create in our home, local government and country. And as I said earlier, financial management is part of this, but the second part is precisely whether I have a safe, advantageous environment for raising a child here. This is the environment that needs to be created. When we talk about the need for material support for families too, there are, fortunately or unfortunately, many other areas in the portfolio of the Minister for Social Protection. I have come before you with other issues, such as long-term care, which is largely on the back of families' wallets. If we release the family's wallet from this burden, the families will have more money for their children. We have been actively dealing with this issue and I will definitely come to the Riigikogu this year. The second issue that I have talked about, and which affects families in the same way, and precisely these more vulnerable families, is the question of the level of subsistence. I very much believe that there will be better news on this in the near future. As you know, there is an extra budget being made. So the creation of the environment is certainly one of the tasks, and there you can also, as far as possible, look at the additional supply of material support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U336	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U337	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I admit that it is not easy for you to be a minister right now, but my question is as follows. You claimed to the South Estonian Postman on Saturday that the longer the Ukrainian war refugees are here, the more they will return to our society. But, in fact, in the countries of the Eastern Slavic Republic, especially in Ukraine, the birth rate is much lower than in Estonia, and the data show that the pattern of birth rate behaviour is brought to Estonia. Thus, Eastern Slavic immigrants are not holding back the ageing of our society but amplifying it. In principle, I agree with you that the Ukrainian refugees who are temporarily present must be helped in every way. But do you agree that your claim that if they stay here permanently, they will regenerate our society is wrong? That's what I'm gonna ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U338	Thank you for your question. I must explain that the content of this conversation with the journalist was economic productivity, not population growth. But it is not wrong that if they stay here for a long time, there is the probability that they will create a family and have children here on the territory of Estonia. This analysis, or rather a simulation, to which I referred, is carried out by an Estonian research firm and, however, talks more about this economic benefit. I explained this in favour that the reception of war refugees during the first months and perhaps in the first year is challenging for our society financially, but if they stay here for a long time and start working in Estonia, this situation may be useful to us instead.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U339	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U340	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Social Protection! You yourself have also said directly that you have a wide range of different areas in your portfolio. In my opinion, population policy is nothing independent of policies in other areas, but it passes through them and partly overlaps with them. And I think it's a very big bite for one minister or one ministry. I have always been in favour of setting up a population office with the Prime Minister, who would coordinate this work with various ministers, chancellors, experts in different fields, as well as local authorities. In fact, this office would also be responsible for the rehabilitation of the population across ministries and would ensure the population-centred development of society. Do you think this idea deserves to be considered? I understand that every government decides for itself which ministerial seats it leaves. Losing the position of minister of the population was the decision of this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U341	Thank you for your question. The honest answer is that, of course, this has not been discussed by the government at the moment. Understandably, there are more burning and urgent issues than the creation of an additional portfolio. We really do work every day to find more accommodations, to solve bigger and smaller problems, starting with the lack of officials in processing applications for temporary protection. And soon there will be a shortage of officials in my area of administration to grant benefits at the Social Insurance Board. Of course, we try to support each other with the authorities. But basically, I don't think it's a bad solution. The former Paul-Eerik Rummo office, which carried a little bit like the roof of ministries, may not be a bad solution at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U342	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U343	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As regards the sustainability of the population, the "Estonia 2035" Action Plan outlines the task of the Ministry of Social Affairs to increase cross-sectoral cooperation in order to implement the population policy supporting the sustainability of Estonia as a nation state. That's where my question comes from. What is the spirit of cooperation in these areas, and can we point out some positive progress in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U344	Thank you for your question. In order to establish cross-sectoral cooperation, the same committee on the population crisis was actually created so that all relevant ministries could contribute. Another important preparation process that has taken place to create a new version of the welfare development plan has also been extremely broad-based, involving all social target groups and stakeholders. This is this cross-cutting cooperation. As far as the results are concerned, good people, the child is usually expected for nine months. The results may be a little too soon to be expected. But I assure you that population policy, whether it involves creating a better environment for families to raise children, be it to provide families with a greater sense of material security, which is not always and necessarily through family benefits, all of which we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U345	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U346	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! You gave a pretty thorough overview of what you've been doing and what your goals are. I understand no one really wants to talk about money right now. That's probably why your speech put more emphasis on creating a sense of security. But believe me, you can't miss the money. It's just, if you're in a relatively safe place on an empty stomach, there's no positive feeling. But you didn't touch the families of many children and their connection. Perhaps, however, you would also open up some plans for the support of families with many children, even to give them this sense of security, if the [additional] money is not enough for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U347	Regarding families with many children or families rich in children, all the services we create for any family and children are, of course, open to them. These same family centres in the local community as well as other services on site, as well as services for children with special needs, all this is for all Estonian children. When we think about who is actually struggling and difficult, we must admit that statistics show that we still see the children and families of single parents in the most difficult situation, the families of disabled parents, or the families of disabled children. Regrettably, these are also single - parent families. I think there's a point here, and now it's more of a point in hedging those risks. The benefits for children's families, as we know, are 100 euros from the third child, plus 300 euros, and from the seventh child, 400 euros, in fact, we have quite generous child benefits. If we also put aside the support that the country offers with a warm school lunch, we are actually talking about a society where it is safe to raise children. We can, of course, build on this quality. And I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of child benefits is not to provide for children, but to support families raising children. Maintenance is and remains under family law for parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U348	No further questions. Thank you! I'll open the negotiations and the heirs first. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U349	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, I can imagine very well that right now you have your hands and feet full of work. This area is certainly, for good reason, very complex and covering a number of [area] areas. In this sense, it could still be [ask] how wise it was that the position of minister of population was lost. But it's up to every government to decide. It's important that the job is done. Now, when we look at what our current challenges are, when I introduced our questions, I said that today, when the war in our neighbourhood is raging in its most terrible horror, we cannot forget the preservation of the Estonian people [the objective] and the current population crisis. Because today, however, we can say that we are experiencing a population crisis. When you look at the measures that the government is planning to take, coming from behind, I, Minister, have heard from your answers that in the case of many-child [family] families, all the benefits that apply to single- and two-child families will also apply. Well, if it wasn't, it would be pretty scary. I think it makes perfect sense in that sense. But why are we talking about the need for more support for families with many children is that [needs] to give our families a certain sense of security It is only from three children that we can talk about population regeneration. And Estonians, as a very small nation, cannot overlook it. We definitely need to talk about this, and in this respect, in my view, in today's sense, one of the criteria for assessing your success is how our population is doing: whether it shrinks, whether it shrinks rapidly or if it shrinks slowly. Are we going to take a step closer so that we can start talking once about reaching the birth rate of 2.1? These, in my opinion, are undoubtedly criteria that cannot be overlooked. Indeed, a sense of security [may not always mean paying some direct euro, but if we look at what inflation is doing now, we cannot overlook the indexation of our child benefits. It is simply inevitable and it is crucial. And now you said you'd think about it. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U350	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U351	... so that at the end of the year you can come up with something about this child benefit. Indeed, you may have expressed yourself later in answering your questions in such a way that you have not said that the subsidies should increase, but you should think about that. In my opinion, we should certainly index the existing subsidies this year as a minimum. That's the absolute minimum. And then we should actually look at how we can put some emphasis on it. I dare say, really, that you don't always have to motivate financially. Also, if we spot and be attentive and sympathetic to families of many children around us, if we are willing to help them in a public place, just to see them [treatment], it is very, very important. This is undoubtedly crucial because it creates an environment where there is not much to spend. On the other hand, we cannot overlook the current increase in prices. And when we get back to the fact that we don't have, I don't know, five or ten years with some subsidies growing, and then we hear here one says, "Hey, you were in the government too, it's your job, and the other says, "No, no, you've been in the government too, why nothing has been done." This blaming of one another, which we regretably often see here, does not move forward, it is not a solution to the population crisis. In resolving any crisis, there is no way [out] to find any way out. In this sense, I have a very big request for you: think about additional measures, including those that would be financial and motivate our families so that they are ready to invite a third-fourth-five to their family and why not a more child. Because only with the help of children can our people survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U352	Thank you very much. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak White.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U353	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U354	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U355	President-in-Office of the Council. A good minister once again, and the wonderful masses of parliamentarians and journalists gathered here, who have all come to observe this important subject! I would first define the concept of a population crisis. The population crisis can be defined as a situation where the birth rate is below the recovery level, which, as it continues in the near future, will lead to a situation where labour shortages and an increasing tax burden on workers are [governing] in the current economic structure. In the future, this population crisis will threaten the progress of our nation, our language and our culture, and, in the long run, the preservation of our nation. We certainly have this situation, and without a doubt it was before COVID. I do not think that we are experiencing an actual shortage of labour right now. We ourselves still have reserves, we do not need the introduction of cheap labour, which, moreover, will exacerbate our problems in the future. I thought I wasn't talking about mortality, which increased sharply last year. I am not talking about this because there is no analysis here, why it was and how these over-deaths with a different policy would have been avoidable. I don't want to make unfair accusations. But there is a reason to talk about the birth rate. The Minister could not tell us when we still had so little birth. It was in 2003. And then it was the low birth rate as a continuation of the 1990s, and that's what we got over with the introduction of the parental salary. But it is not the number of births that is known as the number of births, but the total coefficient of birth rate, which is the figure of the generation's ability to give birth. The last known total birth rate is 2020 and it was 1.58. This was 5% lower than in 2019, or more than a fifth of births were missing. So, actually, I should have dealt with it right away. We will soon find out about the 2021 figure and forecast that it will not be better. However, in recent years, as we know, we have had a migration balance with some four or five thousand people from the East Slavic countries and Asia-African immigrants. Immigrants are also known to have the capacity to grow old and have to be paid pension by the state. And the birth rate of immigrants from the Eastern Slavic cultural space is low, so immigration does not stop, I repeat again, the ageing of society, but it deepens it. But the share of the population of foreign origin has increased in 2021, yes. These are very negative trends and, of course, they do not only concern the responsibility of the Minister for Social Protection, but actually reflect the entire government's actions. I once asked the Prime Minister whether it was important for him that the share of Estonians in Estonia should not fall. And by his initiative he answered or somehow challenged whether it is possible to define an Estonian at all and whether we know the number of Estonians at all. It was possible to understand that he thinks that we do not know how many Estonians live in Estonia. That's not true. We know that by the registers, and more specifically, we're going to find out about the census. But then the Prime Minister announced that he felt that the country had two objectives. And they are that Estonian language, culture and people last, while the other is that the economy works. In fact, these goals should not be contradicted, just as you did. In fact, economic recovery and the re-production of society and population fall under a single denominator. And the Prime Minister then continued that this balance and these decisions must be based on these two great goals. I, on the other hand, dare to suspect that the government's actual policy is not going either way. It is true that the birth rate cannot be increased immediately, but I must admit that I have been following the government's actions properly in this area, and I have not noticed any specific family policy initiatives. However, the government has suppressed all the drafts aimed at regulating migration and ending mass immigration. And I am not talking about refugees here, this is a separate subject, I will come to that at last. Right now, I'd like to keep this data ringing. Indeed, according to the latest data from 2021, our labour productivity is 81% of the euro area average. And if we have 650,000 people at work, raising productivity only to the euro area average will give us 150,000 new people. Okay. And that's the direction, along with the occupation of older people, to the jobs that suit them, that's what the government should do. On the other hand, the use of cheap external labour, which the government now wants to expand further, hampers productivity growth as it hampers technological development and changes in the economic structure. I am willing to repeat this very much in the future. Now, finally, I will also talk about the refugees in Ukraine with a slightly more strategic view. In a recent study by reputable demographers at St Andrews University, this study group also included Estonian Hill Räärke, an analysis of the impact of Russia's attack on the future of the Ukrainian population and a series of population projections are made there with different assumptions. In fact, these results are frightening to Ukraine. The results are startling. Even if the impact of the war and the escape are not taken into account, Ukraine's population will be reduced by 16% over the next two decades due to the very low birth rate, and the population of Ukraine will be rapidly ageing. However, if 5 million people flee from Ukraine, of whom only 10% will return to Ukraine, the population of Ukraine would decrease by up to 33% by 2040, the working age population by up to 36% and the number of children by up to 56%. However, if 90% of Ukrainian refugees returned to Ukraine, the population losses would be comparable to the peace situation. So, what's the message from there to us? The stability of Ukraine after the war is exactly what we need in Ukraine. Otherwise, it will provoke Russia into a new aggression. In fact, two steps should be taken. Firstly, to try to ensure sufficient financial assistance for Ukraine and secondly to ensure that as many refugees as possible return to Ukraine. Quite the opposite of what the government is trying to do right now. Refugees...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U356	Good waitress, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U357	Now. Thank you. Thank you for your enormous attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U358	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U359	Thank you, good Chairman! The eye is about to get wet, the mood gets shaky when we discuss the population crisis here at a late hour. That's right. After all, all our efforts will be lost if we do not have this heritage to pass on to our children, our grandchildren. I remembered the year was perhaps 2010 or 2009, when a discussion on patriotic education was held at a military university in Finland. Then I asked you at the free-form coffee table, what's your big problem with young people? They said they had a problem with not wanting to go abroad, not wanting to travel around the world, wanting to start a family. We had another problem at that point with young people going, but don't want to come back. It may not be such a big problem, but you see, children are less born. Something has to be done. What could be [right] formula, we don't know. In the Riigikogu, a problem committee was set up to resolve the population crisis. The approach was actually systemic and I think there might be a systemic approach. The press complained that eight or a number of companies had put together money, supported all political forces to accept a grant of EUR 500 per month from the third child. That made a lot of people think. And we started to have a number of third children, and we started to have other children. But as we know, people are always too few, over and over again. It doesn't make money give birth or all these measures. The Minister said that [important] are all these other things too. I'll sign it! But somehow we really need to make our children and grandchildren feel safe that this patch of land here, Marymaa, is the best place for them to give birth and keep it. Otherwise, what we're doing here in the late hours of the night, our debates, they're totally sanded. Well, of course, every committee has its own nose in it. I say there is no problem with the Committee on Legal Affairs, the country is always right. And in the Committee on European Union Affairs, it is easy. The European Union knows [all] exactly, and we are still handling these matters very quickly. It may be a good idea to take along the Estonian language [the development of learning] from the Trouble Committee. Mikhail Stalnukhin, a good trade partner, said that it is easier for Ukrainians to learn Estonian, just as easy as the Russians to learn Finnish. Perhaps Finnish and Russian are somehow... and Estonian and Ukrainian are somehow a barrier-block-block. Which means that collective families can arise either way, and language can be shared in our language space. But it seems to me that today this Minister for Social Protection could still formulate something as a minister of population. All the problems Signe Riisalo is dealing with right now fit right down there. It's just that the focus somehow needs to be turned this way. I think sociologists may be right, [that is good] when young people question young people. Because when someone our age goes to ask young people, they always say the average answers. After all, we know that when a child [travels] with his parents around the world for four months, he goes through all the different places, and then he asks: "How was the journey? " "Okay. " Young people may be told [as] things are. We may not know, but we have one assumption: we can become very good grandparents. So let's make this country for them, keep and try to influence our legislation so much that our grandchildren will fill this country with children! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U360	Thank you. It is now the case that § 72 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act says as follows: the President of the sitting proposes that the speeches be considered closed when everyone who wished to speak has been able to speak at the moment there is Helmen Kütt or if he considers that the item on the agenda has been adequately dealt with. At the moment, I do not think that the agenda issue has been adequately addressed and I am asking for the Chair of the Riigikogu, Helmen Hunt.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U361	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U362	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U363	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It is indeed the case that each government decides for itself which ministerial seats it considers necessary, and that is, of course, a political decision. I have always been of the opinion that population policy is nothing independent of policies in other areas, but it passes through them and partly overlaps with them. And it seems to me that this is too much responsibility for one minister or ministry. In fact, there should be a population office with the Prime Minister who coordinates and is responsible for the restoration of the population across ministries, working with the Chancellors and Deputy Chancellors of the Ministries, top specialists in the fields and local authorities. It would also be necessary to clarify the roles and responsibilities of ministries and other authorities in the implementation of population policy. It is clear that individual measures will not produce results, as the demographic behaviour of the population is largely dependent. In order to increase the birth rate, material subsidies are not enough, but they must be accompanied by time and price increases. In 2014, with the Reform Party in government, the Social Democrats were allowed to increase the support of the first and second children who remained unchanged for ten years. Do you remember how big the first and second child support was in 2014? Signe Riisalo of course remembers because she worked at the Ministry. It was 19 euros and 18 cents and it was raised to 45 euros, later to 60 euros. In fact, population processes are also dependent on education and the environment. There is a need to reduce the barriers to the birth rate [growth] and to develop the activities that the Minister was talking about here today. In addition to forward-looking planning work, I consider it very important to pay more attention to the health, education and living environment of today's families and growing children. Public health and birth rates are inseparable. It is possible to change the factors of birth rate, health, life and relationships. Population scientist Kalev Katus has said that the development of society must be addressed in a population-centred way. In fact, the words once said by our President Lennart Meri are [very true] that the current state of the Estonian people is critical, but not irreversible, provided that the government gives priority to this issue. This is his saying, and I think it has not lost its value today either, because, in fact, alongside all other activities and very important problems, such as war, security, defence spending, the subject of the population is so important that it must go through all the decisions that the government makes and what the Riigikogu does. It was good to hear that the Minister for Social Protection sometimes comes with good news. We very much hope that these will mean an increase in income support. We, as social democrats, have on several occasions put forward proposals for both budget-making and changes, because child poverty and family poverty [is a major problem], and precisely for the most vulnerable groups, recipients of income support, are certainly [important]. But when it comes to coping, third and fourth children are not born unless first and other children are born. And the rise in the support of the first and second children is very important in order that families really plan the first and second children and know that they can cope. Children aren't born for grants, children are born for love. However, there is also a need for financial support and support for raising children. And, of course, parents have a great responsibility and they do their best to at least a large number of parents. There are always exceptions, of course, but that is the social protection system that deals with these exceptions. But inflation, cost of living, rising prices, rising unemployment, when all this comes down to it, the sense of security that I can raise children either as a family or alone is still the responsibility of the state. And that's a sense of security that the state should ensure. And that is why we have also introduced a bill concerning the increase in the support of the first and second children. And so, here today, in a blissful consensus, almost all of us agree on the swift handling of this draft and, as I can see at least from the head noding of opposition ambassadors, also support. I'm grateful! Mr President, that is all I have to say. You see, I missed almost three minutes. But I certainly wish all the viewers and everyone in the hall a beautiful evening and thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U364	Thank you very much for your good words and your presentation. So, any more calls? I understand that they are getting ready to speak in a free microphone. Got it. I'm closing the negotiations. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U365	Good fellows! Just as we always have a nice treat, a free microphone every Monday, so it is today. Please, everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. So I'm looking forward to active participation. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U366	Thank you, good Chairman! Good people who follow us online or who read the verbatim! It's 2022. The situation is difficult and we have tried with the Fatherland to draw attention to precisely those issues concerning our internal security. Yes, the nationalists have repeatedly said that we should, to some extent, change the procedure for selecting a local council. But, of course, we have bounced against all kinds of mountains. We ourselves called it the Capital Law, because such a procedure applies, for example, in Latvia, Prague, but also a surprise-surprise! In Moscow. So the capital itself is special from its status and only citizens can choose there. Now, today, however, the proposal is as follows: we must change it as a matter of urgency. We have not actually had good cooperation with the so-called Russian embassy in this 30 year period, who has not provided us with information on how many people here have double citizenship. However, we know statistically that the Baltic States are the largest in Estonia, with Putin's support and surprise surprise surprise! The support from Lukashenko is also the highest for us. I would remind you that in 1993, the situation was such that we were then intimidated that unless we gave foreigners the opportunity to choose our local government, we would not be able to enter NATO or Europe. Today, the situation is rather strange. We see many regions where local governments are neither Estonian-minded nor Estonian-speaking. This is also demonstrated by the fact that many municipalities have not clearly condemned Russia's aggression and war against Ukraine and have not made statements in support of Ukraine. 30 years is actually a long time. People could be integrated into our society, but we still can't see it. Today, it should be simple and clear. You have to choose a side in war. In order for people to be able to make their own decision, whether it is their convenience or their insanity, we propose to change the procedure for the election of the local government council. It is not complicated at all, but it is of a fundamental nature. We want it to be safe for us to live here in Estonia. It's as simple as that. I think that many people who, at this moment, have taken comfort in using the opportunity of this so-called grey passport will find that I will do this Estonian citizenship. There's a little dog tail that just needs to be surprised. It's not complicated. Yes, I also know that quite a lot of people have already given up the Russian Federation citizenship. I would remind you that citizenship is not something that is self-evident. Citizenship shall not be granted or taken, but shall be transferred from one nationality to another. If we don't respect ourselves, no one will respect us. This is one measure that may seem, perhaps, to be miscommunications, incomprehensible and cruel to everyone, but I think that we can look together at the future with a clearer look. And those to whom Estonia does not seem to be a living place, well, all roads are open. We're waiting here for people who love our country just as much as we do. Let me remind you: those who do not respect themselves do not respect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-04_U367	Thank you very much. There's no more calls in the free microphone, so I'll finish the free microphone. Today's trial is over. Good fellows, thank you.
