ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon. Let's start our spring session. We will begin the Monday session of the first working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U2	Cute listeners! One of our most important challenges for our future generations is that our children can grow up in an environment that contributes as much as possible to their mental psychological development. In order for them to grow up to be full citizens, people and parents to their children in the future, it is necessary to create and ensure an environment in which children at an early age can express and develop their creativity, their psychological abilities and their mental health. Unfortunately, we know that mental health among children and young people, as well as among adults, is worse not only in Estonia but also in the Western world. Children and young people are experiencing increasing psychological problems, one of the very big and obvious reasons for which is that from an early age, all kinds of digital tools are being brought to their children, which are clearly inhibited and hindered by excesses. This has been referred to by a large number of scientists and experts in their field. What is the Ministry of Education doing in this situation? Instead of warning parents and teachers about these dangers, a new early childhood education curriculum is adopted that wants to bring children to kindergartens...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U3	Five seconds left.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U4	... digital education and its cost of reducing both culture and natural proximity...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U5	Good waitress, your time! What are you gonna hand over to the bill, an inquiry?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U6	Possibilities in kindergarten. I have an inquiry for the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U7	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu Chair of Leo Kunnas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the security situation is serious, it is also appropriate to ask questions about it. Perhaps on behalf of 14 members of the EKRE Group, I will present an inquiry to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas concerning Estonia's military assistance to Ukraine. On 30 December, ERR informed the Ministry of Defence that Estonia was planning to provide anti-tank missile missiles and 122-million howitzers with ammunition as military aid to Ukraine. Ukraine is actually a regional superpower. He is one of the five countries in the world who today can produce arms, military equipment and ammunition in all categories except nuclear weapons, and Ukraine's defence costs are consistently higher than in Estonia after the beginning of the war, for example by 2020 at 4.1% of GDP. The Ukrainian artillery is, it has been thoroughly modernised and Ukraine has no shortage of cannons, i.e. Ukraine has far more jet cannons, mobile cannons, towed cannons than trained artillery units, including 122 million cannons. At the same time, Estonia needs two battalions plus at least one unit the size of a battery in each defense district. That is why we do not have weapons systems that we could give up because we need them ourselves and it makes sense to hand them over to the Defence League. Of course, as far as the Javelins are concerned, we've both got them from the United States. That is why we have 11 questions for the Prime Minister on this subject, which we hope to answer. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U9	You gonna hand it over? Are you sure? Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak White.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour, on behalf of the EKRE Group, to hand over the draft with which we wish to amend the Law on Higher Education, and according to the case, I will say in advance to you, namely, if this draft is adopted, English language will stop at Estonian public universities and state universities of applied sciences. In fact, English-linguism threatens the vitality of our national culture and native language, but does not contribute to increasing the quality of learning. And according to the draft law, the higher education law removes the provisions that guide higher education institutions to english and introduces a provision according to which, at the first level of study, the proportion of foreign languages remains the same as today...... but at the second and third stages of study, the proportion of learners in foreign languages still needs to be reduced gradually. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And the draft provides for transitional periods in a flexible way. Should this draft become a law, at least in part it will also improve the quality of education and that the specialists being prepared will respond more to the needs of the Estonian labour market. The draft does not prevent the use of foreign language teaching material or top foreign teaching staff at Estonian universities and, of course, not the availability of world-class scientific achievements in Estonian universities, as according to the Language Act, education is considered to be acquired in Estonian if at least 60% of the teaching work takes place in Estonian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U11	I now ask the Riigikogu to speak to Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U12	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Raimond Kaljulaid, I am handing over the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the content of which is an increase of the income tax-free minimum to the minimum wage. Really, we already talked about this at the end of last year. Regrettably, this bill was not supported in this Chamber. At the same time, we have this environment, the inflation environment, the need for an increase in the tax-free minimum still exists and is even stronger than in the past. Indeed, the average wage is rising and prices are rising. But, well, there's no agreement anywhere that you first have to raise a man's salary and then you start asking him for a higher price for bread or milk or for a refrigerator. Rather, this development is quite the opposite, that the price increase hits everyone, and then some people get lucky and raise their wages afterwards. In order to actually increase the motivation of low wage earners to work, to alleviate their livelihoods, it is not possible to create a compensation or compensation mechanism for any price increase. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Therefore, a tax measure aimed at low-wage earners, raising the tax-free minimum, is an effective solution, is a necessary solution and, in fact, both helps to alleviate the burden on the social system and to keep people's motivation for work. So I hope that we can discuss this draft quickly in this Chamber and this time it will also find support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U13	Will you hand over the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U14	The draft has been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U15	Thank you. Please join the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U16	How did the Communist Lenin teach? At a good price, there are capitalists who sell bolsheviks the rope we use to hang them. And looking at an article published in the Financial Times columns on 3 January, which points out that the Estonian-Belarus transit has increased more than twice in 2021 than in 2020. It must be acknowledged, and this also with the help of the Estonian company's company in the country of rail transport, that it is very worrying to hear the comments of the representatives of the Estonian government that everything is legally correct. The Financial Times informs the world that we should not, Estonia should not waste its valuable political capital and the credibility it has accumulated in Washington on behalf of a few hundred million euros, which their companies each year, including state companies, would earn as a point of reference, by acting on the Belarus side. End of quote. And our questions, the questions of a number of members of the Isamaa Group, are addressed to the Minister of Economic Affairs, Taavi Aasa, who also exercises the general government's general meeting rights in the case of companies operating the state railway, are why the government, in the name of the profit of the Estonian state company, factually supports the continuation of the sanctioned Lukashenka regime through the de facto increase in transit through the Estonian state company, and we wish to receive information on the surge in trade between Belarus and Estonia by sector and year. Let's not change into change for our security and short commercial gain... Freedom, principles and also national security of the Belarusian people. Let's not be businessmen dealing with strings that hang us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U17	A procedural question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U18	Thank you. I'm sorry, this isn't exactly...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U19	I vab... Yes, please! Please, please, Mr. Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U20	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I'm sorry, it's not quite a procedural question, it's rather a proposal to carry out our work. As electricity prices have become problematic even for many members of the Riigikogu, I propose that, as long as the daylight continues, the lights be extinguished to show solidarity to people in difficulty. [[Voices in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U21	Thank you. And it is also important that the Riigikogu is chaired and chaired by the Riigikogu on the basis of what the legislation on eyesight says how much light there must be here. But the concern you address is, of course, serious. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U22	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching nine draft laws today. First, a draft law on the protection of the whistleblower. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Securities Market Act and related amendments to other laws. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act (the provision of construction data). Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and other laws. In processing these three draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance. Fifthly, the Police and Border Guard Act and the law amending other laws (harmonisation of special services). Sixthly, the draft law amending the Act on the Accession of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the French Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany, in particular in the fight against terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal migration to enhance cross-border cooperation with the Treaty. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior when dealing with the two draft laws mentioned above. Seventh, a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and other laws. Eightth draft law on accessibility of products and services. Ninth, the amendment of the Family Benefits Act and the related amendment of other laws. In processing these three draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U23	Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted 11 draft laws and three inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U24	Good fellows, I apologize for a moment. Mr. Priit Onion, do you have a procedure for checking your presence? Thank you. 86 members of the Riigikogu signed up, missing 15. A procedural question. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U25	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. In response to Mart Helme's proposal, it seemed that you knew something about the right. You started talking about what kind of law or, I don't know exactly what the law and the law are, which, in order to ensure our eyesight, must not extinguish the fire. However, nothing repeatedly prohibited you from violating the Constitution. You had no problem coming to the Riigikogu on 9 November with the proposal of the Bureau to move the sittings to remote sessions, which, as it turns out, is a violation of the Constitution, that such a proposal was brought before Parliament at all. In your letter to the Supreme Court, which you have signed, you also refer to the fact that the positions of the European Court of Human Rights are not consistent with the opinions of the European Court of Human Rights by bringing disputes arising from the internal organisation of work of the Riigikogu before the courts because it may overburden the court, overburden it, and be meaningless. In principle, you also say that the actual proposal I made to the Supreme Court should not be dealt with at all. It's pretty unprecedented, and I don't think anything like this happened even in a silent era. Since you will be remembered as Head of Government, it will be a year this week when you decided to resign, you were remembered as an apologizing Prime Minister. I think it would be quite appropriate to apologize now for having two of the three board members with such proposals, but I am not sure that is enough. Perhaps you can tell yourself in what way and how you think Parliament should continue to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U26	Thank you. You had the right to refer the matter to the Supreme Court, as you did. The Supreme Court has made its assessment. I think that this assessment must also be based on the Board of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu as a whole in future, in future. It also states the reasons that if you go to a distance hearing, you have to justify it even more seriously. This has to be the last chance. So I believe here we have a lesson to learn from this solution. Thank you. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U27	Thank you, good Chairman! What I heard was that when Mart Helme was talking about solidarity, and I also recall that when we now went on to teleworking contrary to the Constitution, there was also talk about solidarity. Is solidarity competent only if it is unconstitutional or is solidarity competent even if it is entirely legitimate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U28	Thank you. If you take this last decision, we know the decision that said that such a decision was not right to make. So, as I say, it is absolutely necessary to build on this in the future. As a court settlement, this is certainly a serious basis for us to take the next steps. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U29	Thank you. President of the Riigikogu, I regret and self-critically admit that the opposition ambassadors have not been consistent enough to ask procedural questions and have obviously not been able enough to put pressure on the Riigikogu's management and, specifically, on the Riigikogu's leaders, who have led the sessions, so that we can act within the framework prescribed by law here, in accordance with the Constitution. And that is why there was also the work accident that we are talking about now and which concerns the organisation of the Riigikogu and is very substantive and fundamental when you have examined the Supreme Court's decision. And the decision of the Supreme Court tells us this: in view of the constitutional principles of representative democracy and the direct exercise of the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu, the College considers that the reasons for the application of § 89 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures were not sufficiently compelling to justify teleworking in the Riigikogu. The decision of the Riigikogu of 9 November 2021 is unlawful. In addition, the College notes that although the Riigikogu's contested decision has now expired, it does not prevent a substantive examination of the matter. And my question is: has the Board of the Riigikogu found the time within this almost a month to discuss the Supreme Court's decision, and consequently, or is it planned, and if you have discussed, what conclusions have been drawn? And perhaps you will also comment on what we should conclude on the decisions and laws adopted at this sitting or at the session. These were the state budget and several other important drafts, where there is a very clear violation of constitutional rights and the principle of the free mandate of a member of the Riigikogu. What's your message to us in this hall? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U30	Thank you. This message is the same as I answered the previous questioners. What did the Supreme Court say? Said that the distance hearing really had to be the last chance, if there were no other options, there was no more, it had to be very clearly justified. And in my opinion, if I remember correctly, there was also a parallel with frontline workers, where members of the Riigikogu were also raised to the frontline or frontline workers or among them. So I think these are very important explanations that the Supreme Court gave [in case] if in the future the Riigikogu again or the Board of the Riigikogu decides whether to go to a distance hearing or not. Priit Onion, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U31	Thank you. Perhaps not all colleagues have read, so I quote this point, number 46 is this in the Supreme Court's judgment, to which you refer. And it says here that there are compelling reasons... [The manager rings the bell. ) The Riigikogu therefore had to bear in mind that the Constitution does not allow it to hold sittings with remote participation on an easy hand. Moreover, the College is of the opinion that, when interpreted constitutionally, an important reason for holding a remote hearing can be a situation that really does not allow the Riigikogu to meet physically. This is what you have referred to and said on several occasions, but I think the College has gone far beyond us here and beyond your interpretation as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U32	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U33	Thank you, good Chairman!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U34	Sorry, good questioner! I'm asking for silence in the hall. There's too much noise in the hall. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U35	Thank you, good Chairman! Same thing. It wasn't good for our ambassadors to hear where you were a little grumpy that we turned to the court. To the Chancellor of Justice, if we had called, we might have received an answer, but it would have been more indicative. At the time you wrote this, did you also think of any such parallel or more alternative method, whether there is an ombudsman or who to turn to? Because we also repeatedly pointed out at that hearing that maybe we would take a break, the manager would take a break, then Hanno Pevkur would see if it was legal or not. That you can tell me what would keep our reputation up, but wouldn't hurt that much now, perhaps, the dignity of the board?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U36	Thank you. First of all, by answering the first part of this question, this reply to the Supreme Court, which we naturally discussed on the Board of the Riigikogu. Now whether or not the manager takes a break, as you say, is left very clearly to the decision of the person who is chairing the sitting of the Riigikogu in our Home and Working Procedures Act at that moment. And I also remember here a few months ago, where the chairman's break has actually been taken, there have been attempts to resolve differences, and since then some solutions have reunited the body of elders, and we have been able to resolve differences. So I think at least as manager, I'm sure that's the lesson. Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U37	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to come to the case of this televised hearing. Of the opposition parties, the Estonian Conservative People's Party and Isamaa opposed the transition to the remote session that culminated in Priit Sibula's appeal to the Supreme Court. The question for me now is that we do not have a dispute about the fact that the proposal of the two members of the Board of the Riigikogu, as well as the agreement of the coalition ambassadors, was in fact unlawful. We have no argument here. Now the question is, if there is such a thing going on in normal life and practice that if there is some kind of illegal activity, then it usually comes with some kind of sanctions, or we say, well, we call them a certain punishment, then I would be interested in the fact that the punishment or sanction of those members of the Riigikogu's board of directors would be that they would not carry out such illegal activities in the future. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U38	Thank you. We live in the rule of law. And the opinions of the Riigikogu's board, when they split up, this decision really comes to this hall, just as it did at the time. If you insist on punishment, I think in the rule of law, as I told the first questioner, Priit Sibula, that there is a right to appeal to the Supreme Court by a member of the Riigikogu, which he did, the Supreme Court made its decision, and I think we must be smart enough to learn from this decision. And I believe that the Management Board of the Riigikogu, today's members, future members of the Riigikogu will definitely take this solution as a basis for their work and also for the Riigikogu as a whole. Thank you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U39	Thank you, Mr President. I did not ask procedural questions for questions, but for answers in substance and for us to better organise our parliamentary work in the future. I'm not sure we actually live in the rule of law anymore. And my question to you was whether the Board of the Riigikogu had discussed the decision of the Supreme Court, analysed the decision and reached some conclusions and made some kind of decision. And I ask this mainly because following the decision of the Supreme Court, Hanno Pevkur, Member of the Board, who is the first vice-president of the Riigikogu, has commented on the decision of the Supreme Court. I quote: "The Constitutional College of the Supreme Court has decided to carry out the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu in substance, i.e. it has deprived the Riigikogu of the right to decide for itself how to organise its work. The Supreme Court is very seriously thronging the boundaries of the separation of powers and has gone too far. " I understand that the members of the board of the Riigikogu are unanimous on this issue, because I have not heard that the other members have somehow refuted Pevkur's assessment of the Supreme Court's decision. So I do not know whether the other members of the board are of the opinion that the heads of the judges should start rolling and do not agree with the Supreme Court's decision in this direction. And the practical output for today is that we are turning into a comfort parliament. We have now gone to teleworking illegally, but most of the committees we have are working in the form of teleworking, and I think it is, however, a comfort solution rather than an essential solution due to infection. We accept the work of schools all over Estonia, where there are dozens of students in one class and so on, and we create a situation where 10-15 people cannot work in one room and sessions take place mainly in the form of remote sessions. This actually hinders the work of substance if you also look at the Supreme Court's decision and read it, where direct communication and direct contact are extremely important. Please tell me if the board has discussed after the Supreme Court's decision and what conclusions the Board has reached. Is the position of Pevkur, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, the position of the management board that he expressed, and is there plans to reorganize the work of the Riigikogu in both the large hall and the committees to comply with the decision of the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U40	I will then try to answer the very many questions you have asked. First of all, point one, my opinion is that the Supreme Court's decision is to be enforced. Point two, if you ask, will it extend to the board of directors after a quote from a member of the board that you read out? It doesn't. Item three, has the Board of the Riigikogu discussed this? Between us, we've been consulting on a real phone call or, let's say, a meeting. Has he been recorded at a meeting of the Riigikogu Board in any way? I don't think so. Now on, the next aspect of the committees to which you pointed out. I agree with the idea that when you meet physically, face to face, all kinds of meetings, including the form of committee work, are certainly more effective in my opinion. We know that the permanent committees of the Riigikogu can organise their work as they see fit within the committee. But on this issue, as a pusher of what you said, I am certainly willing to discuss it in the body of elders and to try to find this consensus between the political groups, that the reason that many of the committees have actually gone to distance or hybrid has been linked to the Coronary Apandemia. Is today this moment, this moment, to put an end to this principle at least on this issue and to come back physically again? I'm sure I'll be ready to pick that up in the body of elders in the near future. Thank you. Priit Onion, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the Supreme Court's decision is for us to execute, the problem is only that if we interpret it...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U42	I'm sorry! Good colleagues, quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U43	Our problem is only that we still interpret this Supreme Court decision differently from 23 December. One of the three members of the Board of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme, sent his disagreement on this letter, which I quoted, where your signature states that a member of the Riigikogu should not be able to challenge certain things. And there are many aspects, as Helir-Valdor pointed out, Hanno Pevkur also said after the judgment that it is not the Supreme Court's case to interfere with the work of the Riigikogu. The same view is expressed in the letter you have signed. Now you're saying it has to be done. What are we going to do when one of the people on the Board of the Riigikogu has come to an understanding, even after the Supreme Court has decided that the Supreme Court has intervened in the work of the Riigikogu, and now you say that we must begin to comply with this Supreme Court decision? So what do you think we're gonna do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U44	In my opinion, judgments are for enforcement. Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I am eager to believe that we have not been chosen here to argue publicly about our own rules of procedure. This is not a job, it is a substitute activity that is currently taking place after the court has handed down its judgment. But I do, I'm one of those who actually argued against a long-distance hearing. But I am not proud of it at all, because why I hesitated was a personal risk to individual members of the Riigikogu and their homes whose names were known, whose, sorry I said so, diagnoses were known. Although I thought so, I talked about it with restraint, because we really don't want any fatal consequences for anyone at home or for ourselves. If you go on from here, the opposition will play it out as such a great political victory: you see, we pushed it down! I was not suppressed by anyone, but by the very reason that the personal risks that people have put me quietly or silenced me. But tell me how to solve it. Will we, of course, start discussing publicly, on the basis of the judgment, who is sick and what is the risk? It's like a nad. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U46	Thank you. Yes, we do have three points on the agenda today, if we approve or approve this agenda, but I understand in this sense that a referral to the Supreme Court has been made, the Supreme Court has taken it into procedure, has made its decision, and the decision is different from the decision of the large hall to go to the distance hearing. And today is probably the first time we can discuss this in this format. Now, I am with it, Mr Jürgen Ligi, as I agree, that I do not think that we should discuss any personal health data of any human being here. Those members of the Riigikogu who have read the decision of this Supreme Court when I remember correctly, there was also the idea that if a member of the Riigikogu is to justify that he really is not able to attend a healthful session or any period of time, the individual could be given the opportunity of a distance hearing. As we know, we do not have that opportunity. We have the opposite chance that everyone goes to a distance, and if anyone wants to, they can take part in this hall. That was the idea in there, too. And personally, I remember from the spring of last year, at some meetings, I raised this: could we not sign up to the law because of the possibility of a pandemic that, if people so wished, such an opportunity would be for the Riigikogu to allow people to participate at a certain session from a distance. That thought was in there, too. So in this sense, I think that this Supreme Court judgment and the Supreme Court judgment may or may not be possible, but it would be appropriate to discuss perhaps in the Board of Elders in order to take out the thoughts that the Supreme Court itself raised as proactive thoughts in the future. But thank you, Mr. Ligi. A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Well, we all remember this sitting, or rather the beginning of this sitting, when we were discussing going to teleworking, and even then it was very clear that it was not legitimate that it was on the agenda. I also remember how the President of the sitting, essentially by force, rolled over all these arguments, simply to hear them, refused to listen and finally put to the vote a large Chamber. And if we now proceed from this logic, which has been objected to by the Supreme Court's decision by the first vice-chairman, which has intervened in the competence of the Riigikogu and the exclusive right of the Riigikogu in the area of lawmaking, my question is that if this is such an unlimited right and if all legal arguments can be rolled over, then, for example, can a person who does not like the coalition, the sentence of death and the great hall of the Riigikogu give his approval and lynch ourselves on the agenda in this Chamber. Well, it's not rational what the coalition is trying to clarify and, in fact, to circumvent this conclusion to the Supreme Court's judgment. The request is that the board meet in its regular discussions and analyse this situation from the point of view of work and Rules of Procedure as well as from the point of view of the Supreme Court's decision and draw conclusions and draw conclusions on how to avoid such conflicting decisions in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U48	Thank you. What he said, or what Helir-Valdor Seeder asked for, is the idea that the discussion in the Bureau, what you say, I certainly support it. This week we physically, it is now clear that the three of us cannot meet, members of the board, but surely we can, I hope, do it next week. Now, in the context of your procedural question, I also say that the Supreme Court also said in its judgment that if such decisions were to be taken, it would have to be discussed enough and this discussion could have been more substantive, even longer in time, even though, as far as I know, more than an hour ago, there were procedural questions. But this is also what the Supreme Court said that they must also be that the members of the Riigikogu must be able to ask a question and must then be answered by the President. But surely we will discuss this with the board, this Supreme Court ruling, and I think, also with the body of elders in the near future. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U49	Thank you, good Chairman! With regard to the organisation of committees, most of the ambassadors are all in this house, the only one we do not have, and who we have through the Internet, have been ministers. Do we also know which ministers are so-called close contacts or dangerous for members of the Riigikogu, because so many ministers also go to the political groups to present their drafts? Or are the officials accompanying them the reason we have to keep this contact? Or is he merely the comfort of officials and ministers to use such a work format? I also have one of those simple and extremely agile proposals, so that we can actually call all those sittings where the minister is not present an outing session. Maybe then we'll meet the green targets. Nobody's gonna take the bus around here somewhere else. The minister is in Narva, for example, and we need to visit the city of Narva with the Committee on Legal Affairs, the minister is there to show us, and we will discuss our own affairs. So there's this little positive Agile proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U50	Thank you. Once again, the committees themselves organise their work as they see fit. At the same time, I think that if we went out of our way with the committees or on the hybrid in March of last year, March-April, today we could really re-evaluate whether it makes sense. And that can be done, we have a working form for this body of elders who can certainly discuss it. That any new solutions, as you say, are, I think, the decision of each committee itself. However, I have turned to the Head of Government and said that I believe that ministers must participate in committees. As I know, I also received such a signal that not all ministers attend or seldom go to committees, and this is the observation I sent to the Head of Government. Kert Kingo, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U51	Thank you, Mr President. My question is motivated by the issue raised by my colleague Jürgen Ligi, where he discussed what would happen if some ambassadors became ill, whether we were going to discuss it in the big Chamber. And that's my question now. You have been here longer than me in the Riigikogu, I have been in the first period and quite recently, last year this remote voting, or IT solution, was adopted. Please tell me how it was done earlier when an ambassador or a few ambassadors fell ill during the flu season. Then how did the work of the Riigikogu take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U52	Thank you. Previously, we didn't have the opportunity to take part in the distance sessions, this opportunity came about the year before last. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U53	Thank you, Mr President. I actually feel a little sorry for you because you're answering these questions right now. In fact, Hanno Pevkur should be at the moment, because he was in the remote at the time and pushed through the decisions that the court has declared illegal in this Chamber. But since you agreed with him on the board, basically it is entirely adequate that you are discussing this issue here with us. And I'm asking. The Supreme Court's decision was that it was illegal to take the Riigikogu to a remote hearing at the time, which we have been talking about here for an hour. And you also said that the sentence was to be enforced. And Helir-Valdor Seeder touched on this subject a little bit, but I'm going to ask you straight now, what does that mean? How are we going to comply with this Supreme Court decision now? Does this mean that the laws adopted at the remote hearing at that time are also illegal and not valid? Which means we have... I ask whether we have adopted the state budget or whether we need to start discussing it again, as well as all the other laws that we dealt with here at the time this week?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U54	Thank you. I think we need to learn this, especially from the board, but also from the entire Riigikogu, which I have been trying to say here in the last 40 minutes, that the distance sessions, as they go, must be very clearly motivated, justified, must be a last resort. In response to the other side of your question, the Supreme Court here has given a very clear explanation and this is as follows. As a consequence, this is under point 55 of the decision in the contested period, i.e. 10 to 25 November 2021, the legality and validity of the laws and decisions adopted by the Riigikogu in the course of remote sittings and of the acts carried out shall not be affected. Procedural question, Kert Kingo, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U55	Thanks again for the opportunity. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to my question. I asked how in the past the Riigikogu meetings worked or acted when there was no remote session, the possibility of a remote sitting, and when some ambassadors, individual ambassadors were ill during the flu season, for example. What happened then?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U56	Whether the ambassador was absent, reported it, I think, to my group, which also stated that he was sick. I can't tell you, maybe some people came to work here with a little cough or a little cold, that's what they did. As I said, at the time, before spring 2020, we did not have a chance at a distance meeting. Aivar Chef, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U57	Good manager! I have a question about your answer. If the decision of the Riigikogu of 9 November is unlawful for the purpose of conducting remote hearings, then the Supreme Court will also make another decision, as you mentioned, that the retroactive revocation of the decision would clearly be excessive in this case and would disproportionately undermine legal certainty. Consequently, the present decision does not affect the contested period, i.e. 10 to 25. The legitimacy and validity of the laws and decisions adopted by the Riigikogu in the course of the remote sitting of November. How do you figure that out now? Can the Riigikogu make illegal decisions and, at the same time, does it not affect subsequent decisions? Has the Riigikogu been given different powers by decision of this Supreme Court? If it were to be that if the law had been broken, the law had been broken, and the decisions made at the time of the violation of the law were null and void, but there was no judgment here. Have you discussed this in your board, too, whether the next time you can make it so that the Riigikogu makes illegal decisions and they are still valid after that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U58	Thank you. My understanding is this: the Supreme Court has assessed that this decision that we went to a distance hearing was not legal, legitimate. But he has said that when the trial was held, the decisions that were made, be they decisions or laws, are valid. That's how I see it. Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U59	Thank you, good Chairman! I recall that a year or a year and a half ago we also had an emergency situation, and this remote session opportunity came in connection with this emergency situation. But what do we do in situations where we feel that there is a critical situation in the country, but we have a Prime Minister refusing to admit it and later saying that we have just a medical emergency? Shouldn't we be following more precisely what legal possibilities, at which point in time we have promised that, well, no one? Because I would remind you that Hanno Pevkur's explanatory statement at the time was "before everything." 'Before everything' sounded in this Chamber all the time, 'before everything' is the will of the political groups. The political groups may have good will either first or after, but if the situation is still not such as to allow the political groups to be pushed through first and foremost, it would not be put to the vote either so that we do not stumble on this stone in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U60	Thank you. Yes, I think that this decision of the Supreme Court must certainly read that this reasoning must be very motivated, very specific. And personally for myself, I read from this case that such great decisions should be taken by the Riigikogu by consensus, where all political groups really say that this is now the moment to do so. I think it's kind of a peasant's approach. That would be, I think, right. Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U61	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. For a long time, I have listened to and pondered your explanations within the framework of the present judgment that this judgment must be enforced. If, in comparison, I bring here, for example, criminal proceedings and hearings, where it often happens that the evidence has been obtained illegally, i.e. the criminal procedure has not been followed and therefore cannot be used to abdicate the person, and people who really deserve to be punished maybe remain right. And now I am listening and wondering about this judgment, because the Supreme Court stated that the transfer to a remote hearing was not legal, but it does not mean that the conduct of an illegal hearing had any effect on the decisions taken in the course of the remote hearing. So, let's say, at this point the Supreme Court has created a situation that yes, there was an infringement, but there are no problems with this violation that still the things that were accepted remain in force. In this context, can it be interpreted in such a way that the Executive Board of the Riigikogu takes note of this judgment, if necessary, again violates the law, because nothing, any changes or sanctions, nor does it lead to the annulment of previous decisions? I hope my thinking was understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U62	Thank you. I'll start at the back. I think we all have to take judgment after all, not just make mistakes again. Next, in answering the essence of your question, really at this point, I will also read the previous sentences where the Supreme Court says it. that the retroactive repeal of the decision would clearly be excessive in the present case and would disproportionately undermine legal certainty. And then he says on the grounds that, as a result, this decision does not affect the legality or validity of the acts taken by the laws and decisions adopted. So he himself has brought it up in his judgment by the Supreme Court. Thank you. And I actually thank the members of the Riigikogu quite sincerely, I thank them for their questions, for the debate on this subject again. I believe that this has been necessary and a lesson for all of us. And we can move on from here. Thank you. We have arrived then, good fellows, on the day of our first spring session, at a place where we should look at the agenda of the current week for a moment. There have also been some clarifications on this agenda. Once we have examined them, within this item, we should end this debate by approving or not confirming the agenda. The specification is as follows: The Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to remove the fifth item on the agenda of this working week's Wednesday session, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Air Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Dear colleagues, along with this amendment, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the first working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Helir-Valdor Seeder, do you have a procedural question? No? Please, Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U63	Proposement...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U64	Please, Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U65	... on the agenda. Yeah, thanks! I have a proposal on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U66	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U67	Thank you. We are currently in a rather tense and complicated situation, so in a security policy, there is a health crisis, there is an energy crisis. And the Riigikogu has not held sessions in the big hall for quite several weeks, and today we see that we have before us a agenda where there is no item on Thursday. And in this regard, I do have a suggestion that Parliament should not feel so comfortable and that we should not just be a rubber stamp, but that we should, in essence, also deal with the issues that are currently current in society and concern all of us, so that on Thursday the Head of Government can find an opportunity to come to Parliament, talk about the energy crisis, about the possible solutions that are short-term, which we can now do for people and for consumers, and perhaps some long-term solutions. But it is totally unacceptable that we are not working at all in this large hall on Thursday in an established situation where quick decisions and rapid solutions are expected. Parliament cannot stand by here. So my proposal is to include a political statement by the Prime Minister on Thursday, where he will give an overview of the current energy crisis and the solutions proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U68	Thank you. Good Helir-Valdor Seeder, you know, I think, even better than I do, that a political statement can be made here from the Riigikogu Chair, and that can be done if this political will or desire has come from a member of the government. Your proposal in this Chamber is definitely public, here is the government representative. I ask him to submit or pass on this request from a member of the Riigikogu to the State Chancellery and then, when this information has been taken there, if there is a wish of a member of the government to make a political statement, then of course I see no reason not to put it on the agenda quickly if that wish is on the agenda of a member of the government. Mart Helme, please, a procedural question! But I would say so much that even if there is no item on the agenda on this day, I am not saying that this is an empty sitting, because then the members of the Riigikogu will be able to pass on draft laws, draft decisions, enquiries, which are not at all minor, which is important, often the starting point of some process, some sort of solution. Mart Helme, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U69	I would like to support Mr Seeder's proposal. I think we are consulting colleagues from the Fatherland and perhaps from other political groups. Perhaps you should humbly address the Prime Minister with a letter so that he can find time to come to the Riigikogu. And I would also add to this need for reporting and clarification with the issue of security, because we know that there will be consultations or negotiations between America and Russia today, and tomorrow the OSCE will have the corresponding negotiations. We know that the diplomatic carousel is taking off and we, as a Member State of the European Union and NATO, must be involved, informed. The government alone cannot be informed, the Riigikogu must also be informed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U70	Thank you. I am certainly not hindering, but I am encouraging the interaction between the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups and making your proposals from here by the legislative authority, if there is a desire, towards the executive power. Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U71	Thank you. You referred to the possible lack of political will on the agenda of the Prime Minister that this can be done if the Prime Minister has political will and we do not know it. But you can find out: the President can take a break and contact the Prime Minister and find out whether the Prime Minister has enough political will to communicate with Parliament, come here, talk about these issues or not. So I have a helpful proposal for you to take the chairman's break, find out and we can proceed with the adoption of the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U72	Thank you. I say you're resourceful, but I'm not taking that break right now. I do not consider this to be such a procedural question in order to suspend the sitting of the Riigikogu. I described that all members of the government have the opportunity to make a political statement. I think it is a positive thing if they want to talk about these issues, which are important at this point. And as I said, the hearing is public, your wish, you automatically found an ally, another member of the Riigikogu, Mart Helme definitely wants it, and I asked that this information be forwarded to the State Chancellery. Henn Pier, please, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U73	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I am joining the proposals of Helir-Valdor Seeder and Mart Helme here. I, too, would advise you to take a five-minute break, contact the honourable Prime Minister and convey to him the wish of the Riigikogu that we can still meet and get an overview of both the energy crisis and the international crisis where we are today. I think it is particularly important in the context that I remember well how once today's Prime Minister resented you when you were Prime Minister and came one day later when the Riigikogu wished. Then he disappeared for days, didn't even answer the phone to respond to our invitation. So why don't you really take a five-minute break, contact the Prime Minister and give him the wish of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U74	Thank you. I will certainly convey to him the wishes of the members of the Riigikogu, I promise. But right now, I don't see the need to take a break, that doesn't add anything in this case. Tarmo Kruusimäe, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U75	There's an update on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U76	But then let me know with your hand, with this hand. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U77	On 17 December, the Committee on European Union Affairs decided not to give an urgent mandate now in relation to its green proposals and, in consensus, found that we should not only huddle these things up quietly in committees, but that we should open a parliamentary debate, a debate in a large Chamber. I understand that the Prime Minister does not find this will to come here to talk and decorate our Thursday. Then can we not do this because, in the Commission, in the Committee on European Union Affairs, we had the impression that we were very busy with this. Ugly and lame is when we start discussing it exactly a month later, which is on the 17th. In order to save the reputation of the Riigikogu, this debate could take place on the 14th or 13th day.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U78	Thank you. I think this saving reputation, I don't know if it's so sharp, but to make our work work more efficient, I see that you have good motivation, good initiative, and that is such a good prerequisite for the whole spring session. So, in my opinion, these proactive exits are good. However, we are putting the agenda in place, indeed, in cooperation with the committees and the management board of the Riigikogu. And the fact that we do not have the empty days from which this debate started must indeed be seen in the coming weeks that, if necessary, there can also be different political debates, if the committees wish to do so. As we know, we have had a great deal in the past year; I remember here, for example, the important discussions of the Committee on State Budget Control in this Chamber, they have been on very important issues and I think they have been quite well received. But let's move on. I see there are a lot of procedural questions now. Let's get them all together nice and easy. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U79	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. George Ratas! I will listen to your answers to Members who wish to include a member of the government, a prime minister, on the agenda of a Thursday sitting. In one answer you say that I fully support all of this, I very much believe that this should be done. In the second answer, you say that we are not taking the break that is being asked to ask whether the Prime Minister can or cannot come. So, in that sense, for me, your answers have been a little duplicitous. But I'll remind you of one thing. I assume that the parliament of the Republic of Estonia is still the highest power and who wishes to meet the Prime Minister now. And the only obstacle right now is, Mr Jüri Ratas, your behaviour, who will not take this break and ask the Prime Minister to explain whether it is possible to question him and question him on Thursday about his actions and what he is planning to do. You could still take this break. That is the first comment now. Then no one can tell you later that you will see that you have done something illegal again and we will be forced to go to the Supreme Court to discuss this matter. But let's leave this court out right now. The question now is that if we approve the agenda now and leave the Prime Minister here uninvited, then the agenda will be the same as we currently have on our tables. I would like to reiterate once again: please take a ten-minute break to resolve this issue and find out... whether the Prime Minister is ready to come and can come to the Members on Thursday to report. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Let me remind you that Parliament is still the highest body in Estonia, at least according to the papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U80	Thank you. First of all, there's a clarification. Due to our legislation, the highest power is in the hands of the people of Estonia, not in the hands of the people in this hall, but in the hands of the people. Secondly, if you were worried that there was no way we could move forward with regard to the political statement, then we can. The Chairman of the Riigikogu can always be added to the agenda. So today's adoption of the agenda does not depend on it. And third, I promised you that I would pass this request on to the Prime Minister. I'll do it tonight. Thank you. Urmas Reitelmann, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U81	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. To complement my colleague Grünthtal's reply: Estonia is in an energetic disaster. And the answers to these questions are the fastest. There are no critical, time-critical points in our work programme this week. However, before we approve the agenda, we will be able to clarify whether the Prime Minister agrees to come on Thursday, and if we have either a rejection or a yes, we will then adopt the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U82	Thank you. The agenda for the week shall be drawn up on the basis, in particular, of proposals from the committees. The board does not assess directly how time-critical one or the other is. And I'm sticking to my point of view that taking a break right now isn't going to add anything. That's the information I'm transmitting, I promised it, I'll do it tonight. Thank you. Mart Networker, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Just a little reminder for our Fatherland and EKRE colleagues. Christmas vacation may have been a long time and doesn't remember home and work so well. Our draft agenda states that a Question Time will take place on Wednesday, between 12 and 14. There is always a Prime Minister in Question Time and you can already write these questions to the Prime Minister on energy, korona and other subjects. The Prime Minister will be here before the time he wants, already on Wednesday, and will be happy to answer all the questions that you don't have to worry about. And you can write these questions down.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U84	Thank you. It is true that we have Question Time every Wednesday on the Riigikogu week, and Wednesday is before Thursday, it is also true, at 12:14 p.m. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U85	Good manager! In fact, the land burns underfoot, and I would like to support the Tarmo Kruusimäed with the same topic, that today the special committee on state budget control discussed the situation that Estonian diplomats, good diplomats, cannot open their mouths in Brussels. This is the rescue of this world, the 55 positions that the government of Kaja Kallas has confirmed, but the European Union Affairs Commission has not wanted to confirm it under the leadership of Siim Kallas. Today's meeting was quite surreal, actually showed that it was such an important thing. Imagine spending 4% of the money on it every year. We're gonna keep quiet here, just summering, or I don't know what we're gonna do. So, in fact, I support, the land really burns, because it affects all the places in Estonia's life, so landmen, so foresters, farmers, energetics. Thursday would be high time to discuss it in the big hall, this is a crucial matter. So I support the Tarmo Kruusimäe proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U86	Thank you. It seems to me that on Monday we have to give a briefing between the Riigikogu and the President of the Riigikogu. But that was a joke. I will stick to my answer that this information will be passed on to the Prime Minister what he wants here today. As far as I know, the Committee on European Union Affairs wants to discuss this issue, to discuss it thoroughly. This is a very large and fundamental package, but it is not a procedural issue. Aivar Chef, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U87	Thank you. First of all, the President of the Reform Party Group claimed that the Prime Minister would be here on Wednesday. We are not quite sure of that, because Kaja Kallas, in December, never came, if I remember correctly, to answer questions on Wednesdays whether he is coming. And now if I read the comment given to TV3 by Kaja Kallas a few days ago, he'll say that if there are such big bills, I don't have a clear answer to what can be done with it. "You can certainly think of different solutions, but I don't have a solution right now. " Does the President of the Riigikogu not wish to take a break and call Kaja Kallas that at the moment the Prime Minister does not seem to have a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U88	Thank you. According to my information, the Prime Minister is in Question Time on January 12, 2022. In addition, good colleagues, there should also be the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Eva-Maria Liimets. A procedural question, Priit Onion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U89	Thank you. You almost gave the answer because what Mart Võrguship said about many wisdom was that Wednesday would be followed by Thursday and a few more that he had, and what Aivar Kokk now said is that it is true that I have seen many EKRE and Fatherland ambassadors here on Wednesday from 12:00 to 2:00, almost not at all the people of the Reform Party. And just for the people of the Reform Party to know that our good ruler, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, has not found time to meet with the Members of Parliament in December, and on several occasions, if I have had questions specifically for Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, he has been replaced by Regional Minister Jaak Aab, and if it has been a question of the Prime Minister pointing out that there are a number of problems that the previous government, or the government led by Jüri Ratas, that he has eliminated a number of problems, then it has been very difficult for Jaak Aab to give these answers, since he has already been in so many governments that he has once organised these problems under the hands of Jüri Ratas and then again Kaja Kallas has corrected them. 'Cause I'm sorry about the poor guy. What is the basis on which you know that a good ruler is still in front of us on Wednesday, and we will find out a few things? But just for the information of the Reform Party Group and its members, there is a pretty big difference between making a political statement before Parliament, where the ambassadors can hopefully ask a few questions, though, it is true that the maker of a political statement may also not ask questions and what happens in Question Time. These are two different formats in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U90	Thank you. It is true that these are two different formats, and here, I think, we have to have a dispute neither in this Chamber nor in the Supreme Court on this issue. I'm totally in agreement with you on this. Secondly, Jaak Aab's portfolio, as far as I know, is the Minister of State Administration. Just a little bit of clarification. And third, where does my information come from? My information about the exchange of information between the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the services of the State Chancellery, servants or employees is that the Prime Minister is at Question Time this time. The Prime Minister cannot take part in Question Time every time, sometimes it has to do with his assignments outside Estonia, which are connected to the middle of the week, and then he will be replaced by the person who will replace the Prime Minister according to the regime. Thank you. Reuben Weightep, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U91	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. You said taking this five-minute break wouldn't do anything, but it's not true. If you would take this break now and take the Prime Minister's agreement that he should come here to meet Parliament on Thursday, it would allow us to include this meeting with the Prime Minister, which would be very important and positive, as an item on the agenda for Thursday. The only way that taking a break and giving the speech to the Prime Minister would be if you knew in advance, perhaps knowing him more closely, that he would refuse this offer anyway. How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U92	Thank you. It's what our law says. If a member of the government wishes to make a political statement before the Riigikogu and if the Chairman of the Riigikogu supplements it, he will have this opportunity. I have said that I do not see any reason for anyone in the government to make a political statement, not to add it to the agenda. On the contrary, I'm ready to complement it. Procedural question, Siim Kallas, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U93	Mr. Chairman! I would just like to explain to my colleagues here the discussion of this green package as chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs: indeed, we have already discussed it once. We discussed the government's positions, not this package as a whole. And on the 24th, we plan to renegotiate the positions of the government, having consulted each other and also the government, and maybe make some additions. To clarify, this is the procedure. We've taken some time to think, and it doesn't come at all sorry. However, as far as the whole green package is concerned in this Chamber, I would point out that this has already taken place once. We had a crucial discussion on a national issue. The whole "Objective 55" thing was once, and we can still have these discussions. But here's the plan. Just to explain not to mix all things up. "Fit 55" or "Objective 55" is a very clear-cut matter and we are discussing the positions of the government, not this whole thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U94	Thank you for that explanation. A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. To the previous speaker, I would say that this previous debate was on the utopia level, and now there would be a debate on the real-life level. These are two very different things, you could understand that. But today we started procedural questions about the illegality of the transition to a remote session and how the Riigikogu minority was rolled over at the time. We are seeing exactly the same now, Mr President-in-Office. We are now seeing exactly the same way you are trying to roll over the Riigikogu minority. Don't take a break, don't call the prime minister, don't ask if he's ready to come Thursday. Let's roll over, you don't need anything! It is not respectable; it is not worthy of parliamentary democracy. I understand there is a government hearing on Thursday, and if the Prime Minister says that I would ask for patience, Riigikogu, on Thursday I really am not okay with it, we have it on the agenda, the second, the third, the fourth, we understand it. Please make an appointment for me on Monday! We understand that. But just like this: you can do as much air here as you want, we're still doing what we like to do, it's not acceptable. Please come and meet us! Contact the Prime Minister and come to us with news that the Prime Minister is ready to come then and then! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U96	Thank you. I've answered that, I think, one five times and I'm gonna answer you six times. Yeah, I'm taking this message to the Prime Minister today. What is the answer, I really don't know in advance, I'm not a hiromant, is what the Prime Minister will answer me. But I'm taking this request to the Prime Minister. And in this case, whether to do it now or in a few hours, it does not play any role, because the political statement can always be supplemented by the President of the Riigikogu on the agenda. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U97	Good manager! I will join my good colleague Siim Kallas here in such a line, and I will return to the fact that this Estonian diplomats, as we have been confirmed today in the Special Budget Committee, will sit and cannot open their mouths in Brussels. [[A voice from the hall.]] No, it's not, it's not. It was confirmed to us today. And as long as Estonia has not confirmed, Parliament has not confirmed its views on the so-called green future, there is nothing they can do. We're gonna miss the train. If, on 24 January, ELAK is discussing this, then it will already be January and Thursday will be our free time, I will remind you again. So, in my opinion... And electricity bills have also come in the meantime, so after the last ORTC in the Committee on European Affairs, so, in my opinion, I strongly believe that this matter could be discussed on Thursday, and especially if the Prime Minister were willing to come before us, humbly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U98	Thank you. As I said, this request I will pass on to the Riigikogu. I'll do it tonight. Thank you. Raivo Tamm, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U99	Thank you! My question is either delayed or pushed by a proposal from Mr Networker or by a reference to what to invite the Prime Minister here on Thursday, if he is here on Wednesday anyway. Isn't it true that every member of the Riigikogu can call the Prime Minister himself and ask for his or her concerns?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U100	Thank you. I, of course, think it's okay. I think it's okay. I think that a member of the government should be in front of the Riigikogu, it is always a day of celebration for him, and he should come here with joy to hold this discussion and debate in order for the best solutions to be born. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U101	Thank you! Dear George Ratas! Your coalition partners, I'm looking, walking around here with a fist in their pockets and grunting viciously, that what we're wasting time, sitting time, could have started this important work a long time ago. But after that, the mainstream media describes that the opposition wasted an eternal pile of time, and all but the EKRE and the Fatherland ambassadors asked all kinds of pointless questions. But if we look at the situation now, the three-quarter hour that has now taken Kaja Kallas for another invitation instead of taking a five-minute or ten-minute break, we would have had that question long ago and we would have known if he had done it. But in this situation, it turns out that the delay in time is still caused by you, dear Jüri Ratas. And all this reminds me very much of the Estonian film "Here We Are," where Liia Laats says to the attic: "I will not come down, bury me or with the house. " Isn't it? If you'd accepted this request a long time ago, the matter would have been solved, and the work would have been a long time ago. Why don't you give it up a little? I understand you have a question of principle right now that you will not give in. I don't know where we're gonna take that eel out to throw you a stop up there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U102	Yeah, I was just thinking that when you were talking about our co-workers here, tell them that the trial isn't delayed because of the questioners' guilt, but because of the defendant's guilt. Dear colleagues, let's start preparing the voting on the agenda. A procedural question, Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U103	No, it's not procedural. It's about your kind offer to contact the Prime Minister, we'll give you a chance. The members of the Riigikogu are very impatient and will not wait for several hours. We hope that if we now take a ten-minute break by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia before voting, when it ends and we regroup in this Chamber, you can bring us this good news, because, as you said, the Prime Minister will have a day of celebration if he can come to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U104	Thank you so much! Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U105	Honourable Riigikogu! The break requested by the EKRE Group has ended and we are on the way to the vote. So this request that you, or this cooperation, Mr Põlluas, which you have presented or offered to me, thank you for that, was very necessary. I made these calls, unfortunately I did not respond at the moment, but I sent this request with a text message from many members of the Riigikogu. So as soon as I get the answer, we can get on with it. Dear colleagues, I will then put to the vote with an amendment to this week's agenda. Let me remind you once again, we have been missing this amendment for some time, which concerns Wednesday, 12 January and the fifth item on the agenda. With this amendment, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the first working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. I ask you to take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U106	With the result by 49, against 13 members of the Riigikogu the agenda has been confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U107	And now let's start working on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Raivo Tamme, Heiki Hepner, Andres Metsoja, Üllar Saaremäe, Priit Sibula, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Mikhail Lotman and Urmas Reinsalu on 15 December 2021 regarding the move of positions in the Ministry of Education and Research. The inquiry bears such a symbolic number as 101 and is answered by the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. And first of all, I would ask Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu's speech chair, to present this question to us and the Estonian public. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U108	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Colleagues! A successful year started, including a policy year! Let me start with a quote from Nils Nitra's article on December 22nd. The quote begins: "The one that Reps started with does not have to be continued by Kersna," the Mayor of Tartu, Urmas Klaas, is banging in the direction of his party partner. In fact, Liina Kersna even trumps Tallinn with the sneaking move of the Ministry of Education and Research to Mailis Reps. " End of the first quote. Second quote from the same article. "The Ministry believes that it would be reasonable for Klaas to grow its composition in Tartu, where there are 11 higher education institutions, including the most prestigious international university in Estonia. It is certainly possible to find a ministry in Tartu. According to the mayor, it's about who the Ministry wants to direct their faces to: education or the house of Stenbock. It is best to be in Tartu in front of schools with faces." A week before the publication of this article, the people of the Riigikogu, described above by the Fatherland Group, presented a similar question to Minister Liina Kersna, where we have a question as to why more and more posts are being transferred to Tallinn instead of Tartu. While the government plans to move the jobs of state institutions from the capital to other centres in Estonia, the management of the Ministry of Education and Research is once again moving their jobs to Tallinn in Tartu. As we know, there are now more or less half of the employees in Tallinn and Tartu: 162 people in Tartu and 133 in the capital. Let us hope that the data that was available to us is true. People working in leading positions are all in Tallinn if we take Chancellors and Deputy Chancellors. The move of the Ministry of Education was decided and approved by the Government of the Republic in 2000 under the leadership of Tõnis Lukas, then Minister of Education. The decision to move to Tartu was made on the one hand for regional policy reasons, on the other hand because Tartu is the capital of Estonian education and research life. In Postimees, the current Chairman of the Tartu Council, Lukas, writes that taking the jobs of the Ministry of Education and Research to Tallinn is the opposite of what the government has promised. The government's action plan clearly states that state-paid jobs will be taken out of Tallinn, but now, according to the example of the Ministry of Education, they will be taken back to Tallinn. Consequently, we have some specific questions that we have addressed to the Minister, and these are as follows. First, "If we know that there is post-growth of specialists in the field of education and science in Tartu, what is the basis for the Minister's claim that specialists in the field of education and science will not be found in Tartu? Please mention failed competitions, which made it impossible to find suitable specialists in Tartu to fill certain posts. " Second: How far do you think it is possible to maintain the integrity of Estonia and the regional preservation of jobs in a situation where Tartu, even the second largest city in Estonia, is not able to compete with Tallinn because of government policy? " Third: Do you have a comprehensive plan to explain the move of the Ministry of Education and Research to Tallinn? If so, please submit it to us. If you are planning to do something to slow the process of moving the Ministry of Education and Research back to Tallinn, if such a plan exists, we would also like to be part of it. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U109	Thank you, good waitress. I now ask the Minister of Education and Science of the Riigikogu to respond to this inquiry, which bears the order number 101. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U110	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good heirs! First of all, such constructive discussions on the life and future of Estonia are also very constructive on my part in this hall this year! And thank you to the inquisitors for asking these questions. I tried to come as soon as possible to answer your questions, just as I have tried to go to all the committees I have been invited to. But let's take your questions. Now that you've read the questions, I wouldn't even start reading the questions. But the principle is, what kind of competitions have failed. First of all, I would like to say that I have never said that there are no specialists in the field of education in Tartu. On the contrary, I have said that I have spoken personally, I know that my colleagues have personally spoken to several education specialists in Tartu to come to the ministry to participate in the competitions, but at least none of those we talked to came to these competitions, they were leaders of general education schools or teachers. And Tartu is really a great place in that sense, that there are very good educational specialists, that are very good, but they love their work, they love their work at school, and that is why they have not wanted to come to work as an official, even though I have motivated them by the fact that they can always go back to school. I believe that it is very enriching for every head of school to look at educational life at ministerial level and then go back to school. Fortunately, however, some people have also managed to speak up and have also come to the ministry in their field, precisely with the aim of gathering experiences from the state's view of solving matters in the meantime, so as to then go back, for example, from universities we have also become good employees, precisely with the idea that it is diverse. But if you look at the specific competitions now, we really did have a total of nine competitions for managers in 2021, and five of them were in Tartu who won the competitions for the leader. For example, Head of General Education Policy Department from Tartu, Head of Interest Education from Tartu, Head of General Department from Tartu, Quality Manager from Tartu. So the fact that people from Tartu were not employed at all is not true. One of these nine competitions is still ongoing, it is a competition for the head of communication, where I also know that the University of Tartu has an excellent specialist, as well as my lecturer, who also has a very strong link with the field of education. I really wish he'd come to the competition, but he didn't come because he wanted to make an academic career. Both I and the chancellor spoke to this person repeatedly. So it is very difficult to get very good specialists in Tartu because they are very satisfied with their employer and their collective. Question two. To what extent do we consider it possible to maintain regional jobs if not even the Ministry of Education can guarantee this? I am absolutely convinced that the education sector has benefited greatly from the fact that it is the main house in Tartu and is a branch in Tallinn, because, as I say, there are many experts in the field of education in Tartu and, as you said very rightly, 163 specialists are working in Tartu. But COVID's time showed us very clearly that where there is a physical job is no longer important today. What is important is that we allow work to be done wherever it is. For example, one competition was won by a person from Kiviõli and he works for Kiviõli. He goes to Tallinn as well as to Tartu and works very efficiently, because the Ministry of Education and Research has been extraordinary in the sense that already before the COVID time in this institution work was done via a video bridge. It's a normal normality that other ministries now get used to because of COVID. After all, I have been in this house practically only in the context of the COVID crisis, and I have not felt at all that Tartu would be far away or that Tartu's colleagues would be far away. I myself go to Tartu a lot, of course, and now I am there on Thursday and Friday, and the chancellor also goes to Tartu. Question three. Do you have a comprehensive plan to move to Tallinn? No, it's not. Never in this whole year, was soon to be a year to think about it. We do have a plan for teacher follow-up. We have an action plan for education in Estonian; we have an action plan for noticing and supporting talent right away. We have a number of substantive action plans; we are now working on how to get more money into higher education. But there is no action plan, I have not given such a task that we should do so, and no one has had such a plan either, because it makes no sense. On the contrary, it is our strength that we also have a job to offer to people living in South Estonia, that these specialists have the opportunity to apply and also have the opportunity to work in Tartu. It's very important. Question four. Do you have any plans to do something to slow down this move to Tallinn? Yeah, I've actually been thinking about what we can do differently. A completely adequate criticism is that for me the surprise was also on CV Online's website in the Ministry of Education and Research that the job was in Tallinn. I learned this from the press because the website of the Ministry of Education and Research, for example, has Tartu or Tallinn or Tartu everywhere. I actually didn't quite understand it, it probably came somehow automatically, in any case it wasn't intentional. What do I want to say, what can we do? Having spoken to the mayor of Tartu, we can certainly improve these job advertisements, we can certainly formulate these job ads more clearly to work in Tartu. And maybe you could also include experts who are looking for staff outside the house to help formulate these job ads so that they speak more about people living in Tartu or the Tartu region. What I'm trying to say is that there are people in Tartu... The management has come to Tallinn as a result of public competitions; it has not been a conscious choice either; it has been the selection boards of top executives who have made their own decisions, and I have accepted the decisions made by these committees. But I am pleased that 2021 the Ministry of Education and Research will go down in history by employing five people with doctoral degrees, for example, in 2020 two were gathered over the whole year, and now in the new year there are two more. What am I saying? What matters is what quality we employ in the ministry. Of course, it is important that no one feels restricted in any way that if he is from Tartu, he will not get away with it. I'm sure he will. We have great opportunities for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U111	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U112	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Thank you for coming to us so quickly on this issue. I have a question. You referred to your reply in the context of the main house and branch, as the numbers probably before your time were such that one-quarter of the people worked in Tallinn and three-quarters of the people worked in Tartu, then now they are almost equalized. And if you're saying that nothing bad has happened in the last year, then unfortunately, what made our alarm bell ring, is that it's a trend. Even if you say that you do not have a plan to move the Ministry from Tartu to Tallinn, then maybe this is also a problem in the sense that if things just happen between you and me, then we can still constantise afterwards. I have a question. What does that mean for you? If today there are basically equal, four Vice Chancellors, ministers are sitting in Tallinn and the main house is in Tartu and a branch, you are all in a branch, you are branch managers or how you have this management. I don't quite understand the concept of the main house and the branch. How's that for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U113	Thank you. First of all, we have three Vice Chancellors, there were four earlier, there are three Vice Chancellors today, and this is the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Research. But today it is that the main job is in Tallinn, these people live in Tallinn, but the chancellor goes the same way as the people of Tartu go to Tallinn, I go to the chancellor and other deputy chancellors in Tartu. That's what it is. Perhaps this is difficult to understand if you have not worked in an institution that has two places of operation. On Thursday, immediately after the government meeting, I will also travel to Tartu and will be in South Estonia on Thursday and Friday. This is the usual way of working. We have virtually no meetings in the Ministry where no one would be on the video bridge and not because of COVID, but because the person is in Tartu, Kiviõli or somewhere else. What we really want is for our labour market to become increasingly flexible and for people to have flexible opportunities to work. What really matters now is not where the steptle to turn on the computer is where it really is where it is, but the question is how the employee is compensated when, for example, he has decided to work in the home office, the cost of the stepps he is doing to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Your presentation left the notion that in competitions you do not directly determine where a person's job is. Here, by chance, it came out directly that Tallinn had been placed. However, you said again later that it is usually Tallinn or Tartu. My question is, how is it? Does the competitions specify where the job is? And could this job be because of Võru or Jõgeva or because of me, for example, Kärdla? So what about the placement of this job?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U115	Thank you for your question. A very relevant question, as usual. As a general rule, I just know, I made it clear to myself, thanks to your inquiry, that the subject is made clearer in the job advertisements of the Ministry of Education and Research, that the job is Tallinn or Tartu. I also said that Tartu or Tallinn should be this way. There are a few jobs, some jobs, which say that the job is Tartu or that the job is Tallinn. There aren't enough. For example, if the chancellor was looking for help, then since the chancellor is in Tallinn, he should probably also be in Tallinn. In such cases, it has been said that there really is a job in one city or another. But there are also departments that are mostly in Tartu, and in such cases only Tartu has been put in place. But we have a lot of departments where there are half of them, where parts are in Tallinn, parts are in Tartu. I have now asked my colleagues, who are in Tallinn and some are in Tartu, whether this in any way interferes with the work or is it bad, or whether we should divide the departments that are in Tartu and who are in full composition in Tallinn. But it wasn't considered necessary. The Ministry of Education and Research has already used to these flexible forms of work. And I assure you that the people from Võru, Jõhvi or Kohtla-Järve are equally very welcome in the ranks of the officials of the Ministry of Education and Research, because we can organise the work so that they can do their work well where they live.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U116	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U117	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Just for information, the competitions have been very active and I know from my own knowledge that, for example, two very good specialists have gone to the Ministry of Education in the last year. And they're working in Tartu right now, I can confirm that. That there are also good specialists in local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U118	Thank you. In my opinion, South Estonia as a region is prominent in the educational landscape and indeed, there are good specialists and they are all very welcome. But when I look at this nine competitions of management or managers, for example, there are three competitions where, and these are precisely top management competitions with zero candidates from Tartu or Tartu County. Yeah, yeah, zero candidates, two deputy chancellors and the head of strategic planning and communication department, no one has ever applied.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U119	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U120	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. You describe how it is quite difficult to manage a ministry that is located in two cities at once, i.e. located in Tartu, the branch is in Tallinn. But why has this branch of Tallinn ever taken on such a large role in the ministry? And by what means does he justify his existence? Perhaps a large part of the jobs should be relocated from that branch in Tallinn to Tartu, not the other way around. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U121	Thank you. Firstly, I do not think I have said that it is difficult to manage such an institution. On the contrary, I have stressed that today's flexible employment opportunities or employment opportunities guarantee this possibility. I think 10 years ago it was a lot more complicated than it was today, or 15 years ago. Today it is possible, and it will work perfectly. And according to my assessment, the Ministry of Education and Research is very capable today, if not the most capable ministry at all. I think it works well, this being in two cities, and it has actually given the Ministry of Education and Research a competitive advantage, that we are also clearly speaking to South-Estonian employees more than the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, for example, where there is no such base. We clearly have a main house in Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U122	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, We're an e-state, and we really don't care where it is. But let me give you an example. Two very similar to a menu similar to a restaurant, one blooms, the other struggles. The main difference is that in this restaurant, who thrives, the master is always present, the other one he drives over the phone and the Internet. And I'm afraid those two branches are kind of the same way. Well, it turns out that no matter where the tape is, it isn't, because if the chancellor wants to set up some kind of team there, it has to be there. And I think it's huge how often the Minister is in both places. And I've heard that Tartu is somehow about the orphan. Your attention is a little behind it, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U124	Thank you. I fully agree, and it seems to me that this example of cafe is also a very precise example. My favorite cafe in Võru is the kind of cafe where the owners are behind the counter and they are doing very well and they maintain very high quality. And I am actually sad to hear people talk like that in Tartu, because I have heard the opposite in the Ministry that I am a minister who has just visited more in Tartu. I guess on the second day I was in Tartu. Some ministers never made it to Tartu. But in any case, I will try to follow this and take this criticism seriously. Somehow I do not want the people of Tartu to feel that they have somehow been excluded. Thank you for the criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U125	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U126	Thank you. Minister, for my part too, thanks to you for finding the opportunity to come to the first sitting to respond to our questioning. I think, however, that the location of the institution has a substantial meaning and also a very important impact, both regional political influence, but I dare say in the case of the Ministry of Education, given Tartu as a university city, also a very substantive sectoral influence. The situation has now turned out to be more or less half, i.e. half of the employees are in Tallinn, half in Tartu. Maybe you're talking, though, I didn't quite understand why this situation has developed like this. And what is this mystical distinction compared to other state institutions outside Tallinn that have not occurred? The Supreme Court, which is located in Tartu, is not that half of the employees are from Tartu, PRIA, which is a very large institution, is not that half are located in Tallinn and Tartu, etc. What is this mysterious distinction in the Ministry of Education? Or has it still been a conscious political action that has developed this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U127	Thank you. I've been in office for less than a year, it's gonna be a year soon. You, too, have been in the coalition for a long time during the period in which these trends have evolved. I'm having a hard time restoring this historical memory somehow to see how it's developed like this. However, I recall that the Ministry of Education and Research is the only ministry whose main building is outside Tallinn. The only ministry, no other ministry like this. I think we've done it well. But at the same time, in the context of this raise, I have also asked my colleagues at the government meeting how we should act. Would it be fair, for example, to give the people of Tartu the opportunity to stand as candidates in these places and, by putting together the government office, to consider that the Minister of Education and Research is in Tartu, i.e. he must live or be ready to live in Tartu? Then these things must be clear. So a person who accepts the portfolio of the Ministry of Education and Research must take into account that he is in Tartu most of the time. And today, where we can really participate in government meetings and cabinet meetings virtually, and very successfully you can participate in virtually, many ministers take advantage of this opportunity, it really sounds even reasonable that there is no longer this need, too, that you necessarily have to be physically present at Stenbock's house. I think this is one of the choices we make about the idea that was meant and realised in our time, that one ministry is in Tartu. So how does he actually make it so that he's only in Tartu? And what does it mean for the labour market in Tartu if these 133 jobs are to move to Tartu? When I say, for example, five specialists we've been in contact with and who are really very good specialists and who I'd be happy to take on my team right now, but they don't want to come... Can we make sure the state can fill these places? In my opinion, this could be discussed for the next elections on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U128	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U129	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Well, the fact that the main house moved there, that was the 2,000 decision of the year. Now, my question is that, if the previous governments here have taken the route of taking jobs out of the city, then that should be the primary task. At this point, people have rather responded with comfort, perhaps saying that ah, some do not want to leave Tartu, but there may be as many people who would like to go to work from this crowded city of Tallinn if they were allowed to do so. My question in itself is: is the pressure on officials to create and return jobs to Tallinn so massive that it has happened as such, or do you think it is a coincidence between different cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U130	First of all, I say that if an official of the Ministry of Education and Research living in Tallinn wants to move to Tartu, it is very nice. He's got a job, no question at all. Secondly, I am not 100 percent sure, I have not looked so far into this history, but from my own memory, when the Ministry of Education and Research was taken to Tartu, there was also a branch in Tallinn. It has never been the case that the Ministry of Education and Research was taken to Tartu in full as a political decision, and then it gradually started to flow to Tallinn. This branch of Tallinn has been all along. Priit nods, my memory's right. But the problem is that this proportion has increased, and the proportion has increased in 21 years. And just in the background, I would remind you that, as you know very well, there is a shortage of labour in Estonia. We have a shortage of labour, we must take advantage of all people who are willing and qualified to work, be they in Tartu, Kohtla-Järve, Jõhvi, Tallinn or Paide. It should no longer be decisive today. It is important that this person is motivated, properly qualified and that the employer is able to provide him with the best possible working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U131	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U132	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I would ask in this way whether the other ministries have been looking for this positive experience of the Ministry of Education, how to take out jobs or how the Ministry of Education's main building is out of Tallinn. Has this experience been sought from you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U133	I hope I don't hurt anyone, but I don't know. There may be officials on the level, but that information just hasn't gotten to me. But it's been very pleasant for me, I can't say surprise, I can't say surprise, I can't tell you how well it works this year. Really, it works fine. Of course, I can't... I was a period, I was in a row for a week or even, yes, at least a week in a row, I was in Tartu. In fact, the heart hurt a little, because it is actually expensive for the taxpayer to keep a minister in Tartu for a week, whose place of residence is in Tallinn. As members of the Riigikogu, you work here in Tallinn and the taxpayer pays the costs of your rental dwelling. The Minister of Education and Research does not, I don't know, have a representative apartment in Tartu that if he goes to Tartu, he could be there. I'm staying at the hotel. And it's kind of embarrassing to be a little bit of a week in a row. Some nights, I think it is appropriate, but if you make a decision that really, the minister should be primarily in Tartu and if his place of residence is not in Tartu, then it is also fair for him to have a place there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U134	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm going back to history, like old people do. I remember when the 2000th Ministry was born in Tartu, literally, and it was largely due to the initiative of the Minister of Education. That wasn't easy. I was the Vice-Rector for Development and Research at the University of Tartu at the time, and I must say that all the higher education institutions and educational institutions in Tartu benefited enormously from the fact that this whole situation turned out to be quite different. So I would very much support it if, as a minister, you could find a little more way back to the entire official body towards Tartu. At the moment, the impression is that the questioners do not have the wrong questions at all; the impression is that it tends to shift away. And this is not...... I think balanced Estonian education system will ultimately be good. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So I'd really encourage you to really
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U136	Thank you. In my opinion, all questions put by members of the Riigikogu are always reasonable. And thank you for the encouragement! I'm sure I'll try to be more in Tartu. But I kept thinking about this balance. For example, the Vice Chancellor, who has been involved in the field of higher education and the field of science, has been in a row for a very long time, these people have been involved with the University of Tartu. Those who have come as deputy chancellor have been from the background of the University of Tartu. And it has once again created a feeling in Tallinn that only the University of Tartu thing is being held at all times, or that it will be the feeling that only the University of Tartu thing is being done, that they have a man in charge, who does their business. And now for a very, very long time, not to say for the first time, the Vice-Chancellor of Science and Higher Education is from Tallinn University of Technology. That's so it's a little balanced. These are fixed-term contracts, they have five-year fixed-term contracts. I guess next time someone else will probably be. But thank you for your encouragement. I love Tartu, I have studied in Tartu twice, and I really like the city of Tartu. So I have nothing against Tartu, on the contrary, I am a very great believer in Tartu. But right now these competitions have gone like this and I can see for myself that it looks like there was no plan for it to look like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U137	Good minister! You don't see any more questions. Thank you for your answer. Let's continue the negotiations. Please, Priit Onion! It's five minutes, indeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U138	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Colleagues! The Minister's answers were beautiful. The talk was fluent, the performance was great. At least the speaker here has a strong eye for it. But it's still scratching. That is the part of the content of the story on which I think, in some ways, we are, we are in the same position and concern, at least so I understood the Minister's answers that he stated these concerns and supported ladies and gentlemen. But I think, just as I started quoting my introductory question, I would quote the same article of the 22 December Evening Festival, which reads (the quote begins): "Kersna is very positive about the "head house" of Tartu and the skills of the intellectuals there, but if you ask why there is still a shift in posts in Tallinn, she does not have an answer. "Well, that's it. No... I really... it's not a separate policy. I say once again that I call for a candidate, there are a lot of strong experts in the field of education in Tartu, they are welcome to join our team. " Kersna adds after a conversation with the HR manager that there are currently seven ads on the Ministry's website and that Tartu or Tallinn are marked as jobs in them. " We heard these same views from Minister Liina Kersna here today, and there is no reason to doubt that. What worries me is what the Minister pointed out in some cases that there was no plan. This is the plan in real life, I am absolutely of that mind, and that is also one reason why there is no such reproach anywhere, because no one thinks that regional policy can be done at the expense of education policy, that has never been thought by anyone. Not if Hele Everaus was a member of the University of Tartu or any other profession or here. We all understand that educational policy decisions must be made by the best specialists. But the problem is this, and we can see that people and jobs are flowing to Tallinn. And if we have a government goal and we don't do it ourselves, we'll set a bad example. In some ways, why I also turned to the Supreme Court and so on that we cannot play any things, that when we take decisions, we must comply with them and realise them, thus setting an example for all other areas and understanding. That's why we referred to it. We didn't start fingering who, who, what ministry or minister, how many officials there have been from somewhere. We also know and perceive trends. Basically, this is what Hele Everaus now finally referred to, that it is important for us to stand up to these trends and deal with if we have a goal that life will be on the other side of Tallinn. And I have no doubt in the context of a previous speaker or a person behind my back that we do not care or that we do not care about what is happening in South Estonia or Tartu or South Estonia at large. I think we're all equally concerned about that. And I very much hope that this questioning will help to make sure that we do not discover that only Tallinn is on the Ministry's website when the Ministry is actually located in Tartu, and that we also learn what Mikhail Lotman referred to, that is, what is the main house and branch. And, as the Minister even said, to give examples where we find out where the problems are, that if we have leadership in Tallinn, we need to increase the team, of course, it turns out that an increase in the team can only take place according to where the management is. And that's perfectly understandable. The only question is that this is how these things are flowing, and that's how we find out from the back that this is how things happened. I very much hope, because it seems to me that our debate was constructive, I very much hope that it will help to ensure that Minister Liina Kersna pays attention to these matters and shows personal initiative and enthusiasm in increasing the share of the Ministry of Tartu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U139	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U140	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people everywhere you're watching us, as well as my former coworkers! Here I am again. It was an honour to work in one of the departments of the Ministry of Education and Research, which later moved to the office building of the school network of the Tallinn branch of the Ministry of Education and Research, which by now should have already found itself a new owner of the Ministry has come. At that moment, I heard this discussion, when Tuesday meetings, I think, were, by memory, because it has been years, perhaps 14 years ago, then people from Tallinn drove cars to Tartu in order to be there at the meeting. When the meeting was held, they came back. When Elron's trains started to move, so many discovered that there was no real need to drive their car to Tartu, but it was easier to work on the train, stay at the meeting and everything. But the rumors that this higher proportion should still come to Tallinn were already then. That's why I may have asked the Minister how much pressure this is. We know we're good at talking about every subject here, but officials are good at destroying every proposal or saying it's the only way, or heaven will come to earth, and all children will be extremely stupid. There's been that kind of pressure. I think it is a very good idea if we can move different state institutions out of Tallinn. This should be the first place, i.e. regionally, the whole of Estonia would be uniformly heavily covered. Yes, we are perhaps one of the most unique countries in the world who have winter capital, spring capital, summer capital, mud capital and so on and so forth, beating capital and whatnot. If we can get a ministry moved to another city, I think it enriches this town, this presence. And I think that those people who want to do their will, they will not crucify America, England, why not Asia, and for them such a challenge that now Tartu, Võru or wherever the job is to accomplish itself, it is. But we're knowingly creating some conditions. And here one evil root is just the personnel search companies and CV-Online, so they find and look for exactly what the keywords are put in there. Now, to be more specific, here I welcome Karabas Barabbas and say that if the Estonian Youth Work Centre was looking for a camp leader, he did not qualify, being the leader of the guides, being a paramedic, being a former ram, and also having carried out all kinds of survival courses and camps, because the search words that were searched for were not his CVs. It's maybe the evil root that we're putting in some sort of criteria. I hope there are no such searches as improvement and agile cooperation and other things. Perhaps it will take more time for the official to find the time and examine all these requests. And when it comes to meeting people, too, because, as I gave you this example, there was a very good specialist who might have made young people's lives in the camp even more interesting, because survival courses for beginners would be the ones that would mean that maybe today many people wouldn't complain that our electricity is so hugely expensive, but they'll say hoo, what's the question, let's go outside, just minus eight degrees. It is possible to set these criteria in the search for human resources if we aim to enrich Estonia's life all over Estonia so that the regional balance is in place, and most importantly, the positions of the state can be removed from the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U141	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U142	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister for Education and Science! The Statute of the Ministry of Education, by law, adopted pursuant to the Government Act, clearly states: the Office of the Ministry of Education is located in Tartu. Period. Thus this discussion of the rule of law that the ministry takes as centipede, we are trying to be, so the tail is in Tartu and the head is in Tallinn, or, if you want, like a snail in any way moving around the country, that we have teleworking, that we have distance work, that is all normal in modern society, but this principled approach that this ministry is sneakyly dragged back into Tallinn by lockers and people, I do not think it is acceptable. This is not, firstly, legitimate in the rule of law and, secondly, a fundamental wrong signal. How much have we been over the years... How little regional policy opportunities exist in a democratic country to balance Tallinn's influence and how much effort has been made to move different state institutions out of Tallinn, it has been a very serious problem, whether it is in Viljandi, be it in Ida-Virumaa, and how strongly opposed it has been. One of the few arguments, legitimate and functional arguments has also been that we have managed to do this in the early 1990s, that the Supreme Court was taken to Tartu, that its synergy in legal education arose in this way, and that we have also managed to bring the Ministry of Education to Tartu in exactly the same way at the beginning of the century. This is not a question of where a couple of officials work, we understand perfectly that either gross domestic product is created or taxes are collected in Tartu or are created in Tallinn. It's a fundamental matter of attitude that gets jealous. And I don't think we should give up on that logic, Madam Secretary. You're setting a negative precedent. You are also doing this outside the rules of law, taking advantage of this so-called back door, and I cannot agree with that in any way. I look to all Members at the fact that I believe that everyone must be Tartians on this issue. It is not the case that only Tallinn has all this wisdom and this special weight, which is concentrated, but must be able to exercise public authority, and the important and central institutions of the state must also be located outside Tallinn. The case of Tartu and this sneaking rounding up in Tallinn is not the right direction, I say frankly, Madam Minister. The fact that the minister must, of course, be in Tallinn several days a week is natural, it is understandable. This has also been done by your pre-professionals, who have had a home in Tartu or who have not had a home in Tartu, that has changed. But that does not mean that we simply carry the Ministry to Tallinn and make it an excuse. That is why I say, Madam Minister, that you have the last word at the beginning of the year. Madam Secretary, come here to the chair and tell them you're getting on the line. This is not a primary precedent. We know that exactly the same kind of centipede movement has taken place during your prep. But now this centipede, as it seems, has already moved half the body from the Mountain, away from Tartu. Give Parliament such a clear approach, a clear and strong word that this thing will end, this contraption, the Ministry will remain in Tartu, the staff of the Ministry will remain in Tartu and this sneaking evacuation will be stopped in Tallinn. This is the only message that was actually the message of this worrying question, and this answer, your bold, confident word, we would like to hear from here, with one sentence: the Ministry is not taken away from Tartu, it is possible to exercise public authority and run the country outside Tallinn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U143	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply convinced that the location of the institution has both a substantial meaning and a very strong impact on the region where it is located, which also means regional political influence. And in Estonia, it is certainly sensible for those institutions where the implementation of sectoral policy and regional policy do not go perpendicular to each other, i.e. do not harm each other, to unite. And the establishment of the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Education and Research from Tallinn to Tartu at the time when this decision was made is just an example of trying to unite such regional policy and then sectoral policy, because Tartu is a large enough city on the Estonian scale and Tartu has a huge potential, namely the Ministry of Science and Education to do quality work. Where else than in a university town? And it helps to balance the overall development of Estonia within Estonia, because Tallinn is the centre of Estonia, the centre of Tartu Livonia. And there are no cities in Estonia other than Tallinn and Tartu, whose sphere of influence extends beyond its own county. And such a decision has also been taken on a number of other public authorities, which have been made, after all, for regional policy reasons and has been very thoughtful. And they've pretty much justified themselves. For example, as a Fertiliser and as a representative of the electoral district of Viljandi-Järvamaa, I dare say that these regional policy decisions that have been made in connection with Viljandi have also justified themselves. The fact that the Rural Promotion Foundation is no longer located in Tallinn, that the Rural Promotion Foundation, which was located in Tallinn for decades, is outside Tallinn is, in my opinion, perfectly logical, normal. The fact that the centre for the development of folk culture, which until now was located on the edge of Lasnamäe, has been moved to Viljandi, where there is a cultural academy, where there is a centre of folk music, Ugala theatre and so on, has also been the right decision and there was some synergy. It's a good place. So if this has been done with thoughtful thought, then regional policy plus sectoral policy, it is something that we should defend. The result is a political decision of its own time and it is very regrettable that over the years, let us say frankly and directly, this process has been reversed, half of the ministry has moved back to Tallinn. Yeah, it's true, no part has moved out of here, but, let's say, a lot has moved back. And this criticism is not just for the Minister in office today, I'll say it right away. Because this has not happened during the current minister's time, during the year, but has been a much longer process. And it's still the ministry's leadership, or the minister. If the Minister has political will, these processes will go the way the Minister wants to remove or operate one or another institution. I have experience as Minister of Agriculture when I took decisions on the removal of several institutions from Tallinn. And they have been implemented today and, luckily, these institutions have remained there. If the Ministry's leadership has political will, then it will also be implemented and maintained. I very much hope that this message and this question of understanding and this debate here today will help to ensure that it does not happen to the particularities that have happened to the Ministry of Education in contrast to other state institutions that work outside Tallinn and where it is not the case that half of the employees are still in Tallinn. Other institutions work as examples in such a way that the majority of employees are in the region where the institution's central office is located. Tallinn does not need to be fattened. In fact, unlike the general understanding, Tallinn is the most subsidised municipality in the Republic of Estonia. The most subsidised government! Because, thanks to the capital, all the national authorities, all the central authorities, here is Estonia's theatre, here is the drama theatre, here is the national library, here is Kumu and so on. These things can be read in addition to the ministries financed from the state budget, from our common wallet across Estonia. We will pay these investments in relation to these institutions, stay here with their salaries and income tax will be collected in this region and so on. If you do the balance quite honestly and completely, then Tallinn is the most competitively subsidised municipality and there is no need for more support. So we support regional policy if it does not undermine sectoral policy, and we will keep the Ministry of Education in Tartu! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U145	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! There was an important question up here that where there is the main house and where there is a branch, it is in Tartu or it is in Tallinn. Actually, the main house is where the drivers are. If the chancellor and the deputy chancellors are in Tallinn, then in reality the main building is in Tallinn. The same actually applies to the Minister. If we really want the Minister or the Ministry to actually act in Tartu as foreseen by this Statute, then we just need to take the leaders there. This is actually my kind of short reply message right here, that if we want to change this situation, it's just where there's leaders, where there's leadership, there's the main house. That would be all for me. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U147	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Does the minister want [word]? No, I don't. Then we have exhausted this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U148	We can move to the second item on the agenda, which is an inquiry by Urmas Reinsalu, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Priit Sibula, Heiki Hepner, Sven Sester, Tarmo Kruusimäe and Üllar Saaremäe members of the Riigikogu about Estonian maritime problems. Mr. Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, First of all, congratulations and health and cheap cheer for the new year's round! And as we have indeed heard in the implementation of the sitting today by the President of the Riigikogu, the coming of a minister before the parliament is pure joy, and that pleasure is mutual from me. But now to the question, and here there are a little more concerns, not just pure joy. Known then a year ago, three agencies, the Road Administration, the Air Administration and the Maritime Administration were merged into one joint office, the Transport Department. The aim was, of course, noble: to save costs, to carry out state reform. However, these worrying clouds have not disappeared in the process of doing this compound, but rather might even say that they have become somewhat denser and darker. In essence, with this reform, the Estonian maritime administration disappeared as a separate institution. And indeed, our maritime people, the shipowners, the Maritime Advisory Board, are concerned about the process that took place this year. Unfortunately, here we must look not only at the minister or ministry that is specifically in charge of the sector, but at the government as a whole. The Maritime Advisory Board has also addressed the Government of the Republic and they have not received the answers that they have actually raised. And if we dissect these problems here a little bit, we will see that, indeed, bringing our ships under the flag of Estonia has not gone the way it wanted. Our maritime competitiveness has not increased. Communication with market participants has been weak, and it has certainly raised these concerns more, because there is a lot of ignorance. And that is why the ambassadors of the Fatherland Group made an inquiry, which asked three longer questions, which I would like to read to you. The audit of the IMO of the International Maritime Organisation, to which Estonia belongs, has highlighted a number of shortcomings in our national maritime organisation, including the insufficient number of IMO Convention officials and the lack of state vision or strategy. How are these bottlenecks to be addressed? What is the situation with these shortcomings today, as the new interim report is expected to be submitted to the IMO in 2022 and the audit will take place in 2023? Secondly, the future structure of the joint office was submitted to the Riigikogu together with the explanatory memorandum and the maritime organisations were assured that all valuable specialists will continue to work in the unified maritime and maritime services. According to our data, a different governance structure and division of departments were introduced. Who made that decision and why? Why were Riigikogu, maritime organisations and the public misled? Thirdly, how do you explain that until now, the Estonian maritime administration has not been presented to the International Classification Society Bureau Veritas, which has replaced the Estonian maritime administration with a number of information on changes to the quality system audited by them on the basis of Estonian international obligations, i.e. agreements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U150	And now we can really ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech at Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Congratulations again!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Since the previous speaker has just finished reading the questions, I may not repeat them, but go straight to the answers. That is the first question, which dealt with the shortcomings identified by the IMO. A voluntary audit of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) took place in 2010, which identified a number of shortcomings in the implementation of IMO instruments in Estonia. These conventions, codes, resolutions and so on. 23.07.2020 a working group was set up by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to prepare and coordinate the statutory audit of the International Maritime Organisation in Estonia. On 28 September last year, the working group presented a mid-term report to the Minister, which highlighted a number of outstanding shortcomings in the previous audit. Then a concrete action plan was also proposed to address the shortcomings, including the issues concerning staff and also the strategy. We note that there are still few officials involved in the work of the IMO, but in fact in Estonia there is a situation that, compared to very many other European countries, there are relatively fewer official ones than in very many countries. So it concerns not only maritime affairs, but many areas. And the working group will prepare an action plan to be submitted to the Government of the Republic for approval by the first quarter of 2022 at the latest. In this context, it should be stressed that the activities related to the IMO audit are above ministries and that it assesses the functioning of Estonia as a country in the IMO's view and not just the activities of the agencies. In December of the last year, the IMO Assembly took place and it was decided to postpone Estonia's audit to 2024. Most of the shortcomings have been addressed today, for example by the end of last year, the technically complex and substantial international convention on the safety of human life at sea became translated. The IMO strategy will be drawn up by the end of this year. The second question concerning the structure of the Transport Board. Indeed, in the course of last year, a number of structural changes took place in the established Transport Department. In particular, they are due to the efficiency of processes and the reduction of duplication. For example, a digital mariner information system has recently been introduced, which digitizes many maritime processes so far. And the other half, of course, is the cut-off task of 3.7 million to the Transport Board and, on the other hand, in addition to the cut-off task, of course, it is also important for the Transport Board to maintain the competitiveness of jobs in terms of wages. And in the spring of 2021, the Transport Board raised wages for 400 employees, 25 of which were maritime-related posts. The average wage increase was 7%. However, it has to be said that the salaries of the Transport Board continue to be those that may not be competitive. The third question concerning Bureau Veritas. The Transport Department informed Bureau Veritas of the structural changes that took place on 1 July last year and, based on the information provided, Bureau Veritas did not see the need for an unscheduled audit. Although it should be noted that the Transport Department forgot to inform Bureau Veritas of the physical move of the certification unit for seafarers on 1 November from Snow Street to Heli Street. Since the ISO certificate was issued with a specific address for Snow 9, where the certified entities are located, it was important information to be notified to the certification body. After the exchange of information with Bureau Veritas, which clarified the new working arrangements, it was agreed with the Bureau that an unscheduled audit would be conducted at the Transport Department in the first half of December. The Transport Board shall hold a valid certificate until 30 April 2023. Following the move of certified entities for structural change, an unscheduled audit was carried out at the beginning of December confirming the validity of the certificate and the next regular audit will take place in April 2022. So right now, we have no risk of stopping recognition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U152	Heiki Hepner would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U153	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, There is nothing wrong with it in itself if we have fewer officials and their number is cut. But the bad thing is, in some ways, it doesn't involve solving certain functions in such a way that it's like a problem between two chairs. This has also been specifically referred to by the appeal of the Maritime Advisory Board, indeed, to the Prime Minister, where they describe fairly colourful situations where the problem has been solved, but neither is it, nor is it possible to go any further. I understand the question now is that basically the cut was 3.7 million and it was now cut, but how did it stay with these functions? The cut decision was made, but the functions? Someone should still be doing the job.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U154	Thank you. I assure you, the work will definitely be done. I understand the concerns of the Maritime Advisory Board. There are people in the field who are very much looking out for their field and are concerned about how the processes are taking place. But once again, I assure you that all processes are under way, we still have the certificates. If there was a concern that Estonia fell into the grey flag zone, today's information is that inspections have been made and this summer the white flag should be guaranteed to us again. This fall of the grey flag was actually just the problem of COVID, that not enough ships moved, that there was no control in foreign ports, and that was why this statistical problem arose, but today it has been solved and the white flag will come back to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U155	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U156	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Can you point out three or four more important reasons why the flag of a foreign country does not fly on ships with an Estonian team in Estonian waters, but flies the flag of a foreign country? What are you going to do to eliminate these causes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U157	Thank you. The main reason for moving under the flag of another country is the benefits offered by this flag state, and, of course, the activities that Estonia itself would receive or unfinished activities that were not previously practically carried out in Estonia. And the reason why these activities had not been carried out is that the maritime sector, as I said in answering questions, is divided between ministries and, in fact, this fragmentation is very large in Estonia. Last year, the Vice-Chancellor of the Blue Economy has been in office, and that is why this position was created so that there would be a leader in the field with sufficiently high beams who could bring along other ministries and other ministries to tackle this fragmentation so that our processes, the maritime legislative processes, would move faster. We have also granted our benefits to seafarers now so that shipowners have reason to bring their ships under the flag of Estonia. This process has not been fast enough, I agree with that. But here, on the one hand, there has also been the effect of COVID, on the other hand, the problem that electronic registers have not been able to work quickly enough. I very much hope that this year they will be able to work and we will be able to move forward faster with this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U158	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U159	Thank you, Minister. And happy birthday! I believe that the concerns of the Maritime Advisory Board and the problems raised are not artificial or fictional, but a result of life itself. And we should all do it as a sea state to have more ships under Estonia's flag, but at the moment, it has become a very embarrassing situation, where the Prime Minister goes to the opening of the so-called Estonian ships, where the flags of friendly neighbouring countries or the flags of less friendly countries are raised to us. This is an extremely embarrassing situation. I did not understand, first of all, that many restructurings are linked and arise because of the so-called cut-off budget, which is simply an artificial model cut. If almost 2 billion budgets grow, they cut for 20 million, it's anecdotal. And secondly, you said that one of the obstacles was the COVID. How do you understand that? This problem is much longer, how and how has the COVID prevented it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U160	Thank you. I have to admit, I largely agree with you about the cut. I think if the budget strategy had not been made last spring, it would have been last autumn, the situation would probably have been somewhat different. I brought COVID because the moment when the incentives were really granted, the tax incentives for ships to come under the Estonian flag, in fact, at exactly the same time, the COVID crisis began, and all the marketing work that was planned to be carried out, they actually did not do it during the COVID crisis. We hope that the crisis will pass as soon as possible, and this marketing activity can also begin properly. Marketing must still be done in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U161	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U162	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Ships under the Estonian flag, that was a cross-party decision, and at the time we repeated and repeated it and emphasised that the development of the shore sector, which is part of the orphan child, is extremely important. We recall even in the previous composition, if we wanted Estonian maritime training to be worth 0% of VAT, just as it is in Latvia. The officials replied that no, he is not so that he is in Lithuania and everywhere else. But they drove us from the villa, which means that we have deliberately weakened our competitiveness against the shore sector. My question is: is it not meant that the maritime deputy chancellor can have his own department, where there is, in fact, a specialist dealing with these permits?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U163	Thank you. We have the maritime department completely. Now it should be specified what you mean when you process permits. [[Tarmo Kruusimäe specifies the hall.]] I'm gonna take this information with me, and I'm gonna be sure to check it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U164	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U165	How is it that, according to the government, things are moving clockwise, but those people, those entrepreneurs who are supposed to create prosperity for Estonia through the maritime sector, whose interests should actually be worked by officials, are critical and call the current situation in the Estonian maritime sector a small ice age? Estonian shipowners, members of the Estonian Maritime Advisory Board, the people of the Estonian maritime sector are concerned and clearly state that we have a serious situation concerning the poor list of maritime safety and, in the context of strong international competition, there is a risk of losing passenger shipping. Why is this happening? Shipowners' cargo shipping proposals, those proposals, which also provide for a reasonable organisational scheme to comply with international maritime safety standards, are rejected. Everything seems to be a success, but in this area we are in such a situation that there are still no cargo ships under the Estonian flag. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U166	Well, that's the safety I was talking about, so the white flag will come back to Estonia. I think these people in the field were also aware of why we fell into the grey flag. But I assure you it was just the effects of the COVID, not enough checks were made. Today, ship checks have been made and the flag is coming back. Passenger ships. Also, the passenger ship support measure next year, I'm sorry, it's still going on this year. I think that these questions and these concerns are recorded at the moment when the discussion of whether or not the measure on passenger ships would continue is still open. Today, it is certain that this year, too, the passenger ship action will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U167	Good Minister, no more questions for members of the Riigikogu. I'm opening negotiations. Heiki Hepner is welcome. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You promised that all the bottlenecks that have arisen would be resolved here by the end of the semester, and we would be rid of this grey flag. But a little bit, just like we said here on the previous question, we're still going to scratch. And, to some extent, it is also related to communication, where market participants, shipowners and other maritime people feel that they have somehow been sidelined and are not involved, even though they would like to contribute to the maximum benefit of Estonian maritime affairs. And I would, however, like to mention one paragraph, which is, in my opinion, a symbolic paragraph in this appeal to the Prime Minister. As early as 1 July 2020, the aid package for restoring the Estonian merchant fleet came into force, on which the consensus of all the political forces represented in the Riigikogu was that the Estonian merchant fleet and thus the jobs of our maritime team should be restored. The authorities promised politicians that the Estonian ship register will be the most modern and attractive in Europe, working in the digital environment 24/7 and registration of ships will take not days but hours. And today we are in a situation where the Real Estate Register in Rakvere does not understand at all how maritime registration is done, following international practices. And this is actually followed by a desperate request for help, where Rakvere Real Estate has issued some incomplete ship registration certificates and refuses to change them. This is, on the other hand, a serious obstacle to the operation and operation of this vessel. Indeed, this type of problem, if they are not yet informed that it is being dealt with, that it is a question that needs to be changed, that we have a plan, it is not surprising that our maritime people are very, very concerned. And really, well, if we're gonna cut here, the current 3.7 million has had to be saved, well understandable, officials have to be cut, and I'm completely in the mind that we have to have a plan how we don't raise officials in all activities, but if we're gonna cut, there's gonna have to be a solution from the same side, that nothing really doesn't work, and those people who fill these places are competent enough to be able to issue these certificates, whether or not to register ships that ensure that the normal work works. Estonia is a maritime state, and here we are looking again, again it is quite worth remembering: our budget is growing by 1.8 billion, 3.7 million we are saving to create confusion and not bringing our ships under our flag. This is actually today's main concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U169	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U170	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister, toughness and strength for you in your new year of life! And the people who are watching us all over the Internet. I just wanted to say maybe the kind of thought we've gotten a little sloppy about, that, yeah, we're adding them all, these jobs. Yes, I have been here for the second season, a member of the Estonian Maritime Support Group, a number of times in the Economic Commission for the Maritime Administration, and I understand that when all things are brought together, I recall that today we have removed the fifth item on Wednesday, which concerns Estonian aviation. Can you imagine that if we now also bring planes under the flag of Estonia, which means that we will actually make all these different permits process now an official who may have actually handled the mistakes of heavy goods vehicles, perhaps they have moved over in tonnage, and then someone will come by plane? That is when he actually deals with his own experience and competence. I myself feel very deeply and very seriously that there is no system in Estonia for centuries: apprentice, fellow, master. Once we've picked up this great maritime industry and brought it under the Ministry of Economic Affairs, these masters should be there and raise apprentices by their own hands, and then they'll become fellows, and later they'll be masters. But what difference does it make who's running it? I'm telling you, there really is a difference between a judge and a judge. I became unemployed some time ago, and I did not qualify for unemployment at the unemployment fund because it turned out that I was a member of the board of directors in a private limited company, which the Tartu County Court has been liquidating for a year. But you can't get a birdie. The next thing I know, I'm a member of Kristiine district and I get paid there, 34 euros was that year. Because I don't qualify as unemployed when I say it's a chosen job, it's not, it's a chosen place, the official didn't understand it and asked me what was, so put it as a profession for me that I'm an intendant to the city of Tallinn. It caused a lot of difficulties. And the next thing I know, I'm a city councilman, and the city of Tallinn will present a salary certificate. I'm asking you, where are the negotiations, that this is either the chosen place? Just as now, if someone who wishes to be a shipowner, we already have nine shipowners in Estonia, or go on a ship, and he falls to such an official, but he also remembers that once these things were different, the feeling of security, the feeling of home, or the waiting for you to be one and a competent person. Let us perhaps pay this master a little more to encourage everyone to know that there is a sailor in front with whom many good men have eaten the salt of a tree. He'll help us process these documents. Well, let's-- the birdie-here-specialist isn't opposite. So let's try to build that trust, and, most importantly, when we already promised to strengthen the shore sector, we'll do it one time, let's do it one time. Tomorrow, the Riigikogu, the Estonian Maritime Support Group, together with the people of our Ministry of Economic Affairs, will discuss the subject with which I am here, good colleagues, already bored with the many and many speeches that have always touched the sea. I hope this works out. I'm an optimist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U171	Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U172	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! I appeal to the Estonian maritime public, to the shipowners, to the entrepreneurs, to the maritime sector, to the holders of maritime culture, to the marine enthusiasts, and I say that we understand your concerns. We understand your concern, and we stand up for you. Estonia must be active and developing as a maritime state, not fading. Unfortunately, we must admit that with all due respect for the birthday child, that the answers that the Minister gave were not substantive and they did not convince us that we want to see the potential that we have in the maritime economy, which is part of our culture, our way of life, our way of life. How is it possible that we consider it normal that thousands of Estonian sailors must travel around the world under the flag of other countries, and we find it perfectly normal that Estonia, as a country with centuries of maritime tradition, has no merchant ships under our flag? It is not a question of emptiness, it is a question of where the centre of gravity and ambition platform is placed. Marine policy, unfortunately, does not seem to matter to this government. And this is also symbolized by the fact that the government decided not to draw up a maritime policy in Estonia. We have some spiced pages with beautiful slogans, with bureaucratic barocses called "National Transport Development Plan 2021 to 2035," but basically, maritime policy has also been abandoned as a real country's goal. And it is not random, but it is a completely deliberate position, which we also see in terms of maritime safety, maritime policy in terms of the development of the maritime economy, as well as, must be recognised in the total initiative concerning the protection of Estonian coastal culture and beaching. This area of the maritime economy, maritime culture, community culture has been left completely unprotected and without any proposals. It is a pity, of course, that the Minister has formalistic answers prepared by officials. The minister presents them in an impeccable rhetorical style, but they are not answers, we know that. Because the problem is that the entire maritime public is saying that we have a problem, and officials who should serve should help our maritime economy develop, say that no, these people, the traitors, the maritime community, are in the wrong positions. We know what is right, we manage the maritime sector, we ensure that Estonia is on the grey list of maritime safety. The minister said it was because of what? Corona! But what is not the reason for everything today? That's a convenient question. Coroning can justify anything. And now the reason for this is that maritime safety is not at a higher level, high-quality guaranteed, including corona. Of course, the Korona is not a question. It's just a matter of administrative inability, failure, not a virus. How can this Wuhan virus be linked to the fact that Estonia is no longer a reliable maritime state according to estimates? In short, I want to say one thing. Isamaa continues to stand up for Estonian maritime affairs, continues to stand up for the interests of Estonian maritime companies, Estonian seafarers. To this government, this economic sector is not important enough to pay attention to it, so important that a separate maritime policy is considered necessary in Estonia and, more importantly, the systematic implementation of this maritime policy. As a result, firstly, our economy, our entire economy, our overall wealth of national income, but secondly, we are losing something very much. We lose the opportunity of a very large number of devoted, educated Estonian sailors to carry themselves out in the Estonian economy or in the Estonian environment. And we weaken, fragile one of our traditional forms of economic expression, our national maritime affairs. We didn't hear the answers. We didn't hear the answers, and there's an infinite sadness about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U173	There's no more calls. Mr. Minister? No, I don't. Then I will close the negotiations and with that we have exhausted the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U174	The third item is the question of the health situation on Elron's trains by Mikhail Lotman, a member of the Riigikogu. Please! The answer is also here in Taavi Aas and Mr Lotman introduces the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You would think that my question concerns a relatively narrow area. But actually, it's a much wider and much more serious question. It is a question of the credibility of the country. When we are talking about train traffic, I drive at least once a week between Tartu and Tallinn, sometimes you have to drive another time, the picture is quite strange. We demand that proof of vaccination be provided for all kinds of events, the library, the cinema, the restaurant. People usually sit in a restaurant with a pretty big social distance, but when I look at train traffic, trains are often full, there is no distance, masks are sometimes, I have to say that yesterday I looked specially, almost everyone had masks, it's healed, but it's often not. If a person walks into some kind of mall and doesn't have a mask, he'll be offered one. There's always a way to disinfect your hands. The hand is disinfected and the mask is also offered on the bus, but there are no masks or hand cleaning devices on the train. If a person wants to eat in a restaurant or cafeteria, he has to provide proof. If he wants to eat on a train, where he sits much closer to other people, no proof is needed. I have to say, I'm such a sinner too often, or sometimes, when I'm in a hurry, I can't eat before I eat on the train. I have a very bad feeling, but I'd like to disinfect my hands, Minister. When I asked you where it could be done, they say in the bathroom. You go through all this crowd and stand in line and then you can wash your hands there. And now I have a question, in addition to what has been brought to you here in this [inquiry]. Now, I am not a medic, and unlike many of our colleagues here in the Riigikogu, I do not claim that I know this area. But is this really the virus that threatens us somehow avoiding trains and entering restaurants and cinemas and it's very dangerous there, but he's in danger on the train? I'm an obedient citizen, I want to listen and follow orders from the government. But these orders must be understandable. I really don't understand why, in less dangerous places, in less epidemiologically dangerous places, proof has been requested, but in my dilettante's eyes, nothing is happening in a much more dangerous place where people are more closely together and breathing on each other. I don't mean to say that I mean, I don't know what's right. Yeah. But I understand that either one of them is either not needed in either of these places, or either one of them is necessary. Elron keeps increasing the price. We can all say that, but the driving conditions have not improved, and the sanitary situation on the train has not improved at all. These are the problems I would like to present to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U176	And now they have to be answered by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U177	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heir! I'll start with questions. The questions are very brief, but since the inquisitor didn't read them, I'll read them. The first question: "What is the reason for Elron's increase in ticket prices, but he is unable to create conditions and control compliance with the requirements to better prevent the spread of the virus on trains? " Yes, I would like to start by really increasing ticket prices from 1 January. In particular, it relates to an increase in energy costs, as well as infrastructure costs, of a total of EUR 5,7 million. In addition, labour costs have actually increased. Now, indeed, I think that public transport is one of those places where people can be quite closely together from time to time. However, it is probably not reasonable or possible to demand proof at the door of public transport. As far as I know, Elron has still taken steps to prevent the virus from spreading on trains. Customer attendants have been instructed to wear masks, special information reminds them that masks are worn. As far as I know, customer service personnel should also have masks in case someone forgot, and then the customer service attendant can give it to the mask person. If that is not the case, it must be checked. Tickets. Elron has made the application that there is a price discount if travel tickets are bought in advance on the web, which will certainly also help reduce contacts. Indeed, as the questioner said, there is a possibility of disinfection and washing hands on trains, but not everywhere, but in toilets. Trains are also regularly disinfected. And, of course, Elron is working with the Health Board and the Police and Border Guard Board to enhance mask control on trains. But undoubtedly this eviction of people from the train is somewhat more complicated than a shopping mall or a restaurant. Now question two. "What are you going to do to prevent the virus from spreading on Elron's trains? " As I said, these measures have been implemented by Elron, but as far as the train performance is concerned, unfortunately, our trains are the same as the 38 trains in 2014. There's been a new call for tender. Trains come to Estonia in 2024, but, yes, it is not possible to get additional formations on the railway faster. This problem of train performance will not be solved until we have additional train formations. Six decisions have been made, I very much hope that ten decisions will also be made, which is still possible with the option. So this problem of train performance will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U178	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You rightly pointed out that the really important problem is that trains are overloaded or do not have enough numbers. By 2024, you hope to get this solved. The second topic is actually that there is not enough opportunity for certain pass-by places, and I am thinking, above all, of the direction of Tallinn-Rapla-Viljandi. Overcrowded is not only the direction of Tartu, but also the direction of Tallinn-Rapla-Viljandi, for example, and there are really obstacles to two, let's say, aspects. One is that there are no compositions, too short formations. And the other one, which doesn't make it possible to move more closely, is that there are no bypasses. Everyone has admitted that this is important. It's even been said that we almost have that money, too. But what isn't? There are no subsequent steps. Is there any way to resolve this aspect?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U180	Thank you. I certainly owe the answer to this question at the moment whether there is something to be done to build additional bypasses in the direction of Viljandi. I'll check it out, we'll answer in writing. I don't know what to say right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U181	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U182	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You mentioned that the rise in the price of electricity, the rise in the price of energy carriers, has also been the reason why Elron's ticket prices are rising. But why is it, Mr Minister, that if people, if companies actually have problems with the current energy crisis and huge bills have been received, then the members of the government will say that you are guilty, because of why, but save electricity, cook at night. And it is said that it is a vice that too much electricity is consumed, that in the interests of a green turn, people should avoid excessive consumption of electricity. But this does not really apply to the public sector. When I look at Elron's price increase now, I see that Elering, who also teaches the Estonian people to live without electricity, has similarly initiated a proposal for an increase in pricing due to the rise in electricity prices. Similarly, in an absurd situation, electricity distribution, first of all, also made a request to increase electricity prices. Then why doesn't it live, so why doesn't the government live by the words that don't use electricity, squirm out somehow?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U183	Thank you. I'm certainly not the one telling people not to use electricity. I can't imagine living without electricity these days. I'm certainly not the one who told people to cook at night. I don't think eating at night is healthy. It makes sense to eat at certain times on a day, in the morning, in the evening. As regards the increase in prices for Elering and Electricity, Elering, which is under my control, is indeed the result of the electricity losses associated with the electricity transmission and these losses are also the reason why this increase in transmission prices is taking place. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic has decided not to take such a dividend from Elering in the coming years. If, in the past, Elering has been quite a good dividend payer for a long time, we can actually see that this increase in the price of the transfer fee would have been, if we wanted to continue with such a dividend policy, it would have been much higher. And I think the right decision was that we will not continue with this dividend policy. And that's also going to be the increase in lower transmission charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U184	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U185	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Do you really think that if there's a toilet on a full train that's hard to get into, that means that this train guarantees hand disinfection? I don't know. I don't know what that means. Why, for example, can trolls and buses in Tallinn be fitted with hand disinfection remotes, but cannot be equipped with trains? It's not that big of an exit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U186	No doubt I'll find out why every car doesn't have the possibility of hand disinfection. That's a good point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U187	Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of enquiries, each member of the Riigikogu has one question. Now you can ask Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U188	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good baby cradle day! My question is that we talked about that if the waitress doesn't have a mask, but as far as I know, there are a few institutions that have put people in a fork, that if you want to work, you're gonna get vaccinated. Or you won't vaccinate. But we also had that some people had a contra-indicated mask. Can't these people work on the railroad? And my second question: if these trains are extremely crowded, how is it possible to travel with a pram, and in this case, how is safety guaranteed for the young developing organism?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U189	Thank you. First of all, the contraindications for wearing a mask. I do not know that Estonia's Elronis has set such a goal that all people must definitely be vaccinated. And as a rule, if there really is a contraindication to wearing a mask, then there is actually a possibility to wear a visor that also serves this purpose relatively similarly. Now, as far as the pram is concerned, yes, indeed the same is true with bicycles, which were charged a separate ticket price, because there was simply a problem with capacity. This is not the case with baby carriages. Once again, we can only get rid of the problem of train filling and only if we buy additional formations. Before that, we will not solve it, and no doubt the problem of entering it with a pram will remain. We need new trains.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U190	No further questions. Thank you! Let's go to the negotiations. Heiki Hepner starts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! I think that Mr Lotman has rightly raised this issue. And I would say that he has raised it very, very rightly and very sharply from two points of view: one is precisely the context of the health crisis and the other is our transport policy or, let us say, the rail transport policy, the passenger transport policy. This is not really a problem for the last year, it is this rail transport policy. But this problem is getting worse. I would, however, first of all come to this issue of the health crisis. This example, which Mikhail Lotman has given, where restrictions are illogical, is causing problems in society; it is creating many interpretations; it creates a sense of injustice in people. It makes me feel like I'm being hurt. Why can't they, but I can't? And so on and so forth. And now the other side, really, a little bit of a comfort issue. If it's possible to put it on a bus or troll on a tram, but there's no one on the train, even the easiest hand disinfecting remote control or its means to use it, it's still a little bit like Elron's comfortable position, we're actually filled up, and that's all we need. However, a much deeper problem is the question of gasport policy, rail, passenger transport policy. I would just say that these problems have been brought to the attention, led and led, but there are no solutions. Or if Mikhail travels between Tallinn and Tartu, I, as the representative of Raplamaa, will just bring the direction of Rapla-Viljandi. And indeed, here at the COVID, the number of passengers has withdrawn a little, but despite this, trains are very crowded during peak hours. And getting on a bike or a train in a pram is a real feat. Perhaps the pram still remains where they try to find the solution and the factory room, but it is true that you can follow the train that you come on the train. This actually shows that our trains are very, very full and we have not been able to find a solution in these years to add compositions or to tighten the graphs. Now really a very concrete example. I need three bypasses between the Rapla. It's been talked about for years. We held a special regional rail conference last year in Rapla, where Elron's representatives were also present and ministerial representatives were present. Everyone agreed that yes, it's been said for years, that there is a problem. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U192	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U193	There's a problem. And they said, you know, we almost have the money, maybe some kind of fund can take it. What wasn't there, in the end, there was no result. Turns out it's not. In the context of the budgetary procedure, Fatherland also proposed that this instrument be included in order to be able to build bypasses for Hagud, Sakk and Männiku. Southwestern railway has said that they will have no problem; they will be able to do so themselves if the state grants this acceptance and it will be paid later on through rail charges. No, I'm not. However, we are concerned about the spread of the virus. We understand that we need to disperse the crowd. It reminds us a little bit of a situation where we realize that we need ventilation, I don't know, any public institutions to fix, it's like we need additional resources. Everyone agrees, but there is no result. It is, in my opinion, such a second view of the question that Mikhail Lotman has raised. And I really think that questioning is very short, but it is very acutely affecting today's painful and critical places. I really do have a big request to the Minister for it to look like it's working on both sides. If we don't get the formations longer and more before 2024, we're gonna man these bypasses and we're gonna get the graphs tighter, and we're gonna get a little bit of relief from the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U194	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U195	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good workmates and people who will be watching us on the Internet! Maybe you don't like a part of my speech, but you can't all like me, I'm not the kind of person you should all like right now. I would like to say that the laws should be unambiguously understood by everyone, simple and identical. If these requirements still apply, they apply everywhere. I have travelled more and more on long-distance routes, but also on suburban routes, because the city of Tallinn cannot simply offer me public transport at this moment, with which I would go home faster, but I will then use the suburban routes. And, of course, as a tallinian, I buy it because only public transport, which leads nowhere, is so-called jointly funded. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. One good experience in the summer was when we also had the duty to wear masks in one town then and the police came on, came on the bus, went by nicely, told the other person, 39 people were, 38 were wearing, one was wearing a mask contraindicated, no one was torn out. But it was a bus with 50 seats, so it was reasonably dispersed. Today we know that less educated people are the ones who have not allowed themselves to be vaccinated, that they believe that if you take 300 grams of vodka and stew 100 grams of pig fat, the virus will not eat you. And now you ask these people for a COVID certificate or something... Transport should be quick and understood, but this moment of occupancy. Now, on account of this Mikhail Lotman description, if you don't have that COVID yet, take a little ride from Tallinn to Tartu or Viljandi and you will definitely get it. Same as saying that if you take Royal and Polish lemonade, you have the entire Mendeleyev table in it at the same time. So we really do have people in our supervision, and they understand these things. But if people are so tightly dispersed in one of these places, it's abnormal. I'm glad my pram story actually got to where I wanted to be, it's a bicycle. A bicycle is not every man's real right in Estonia. Everyone's real right was once a stab, never a sword, and now it's like wearing that stab. But today it seems that these cyclists are all the more important to us in this world: they're on the road, they're on the road, they're on the sidewalk, they're driving wherever they are and they have to get. Now that the weather is more beautiful, everyone will have a good idea: we need to get on a bicycle right there. And then it comes: see, 327 cyclists can't fit on a bicycle, you know, because they wanted to go to some Bladder Lake, because someone's playing acoustic guitar there. It's not like that. Because I'm talking about my experience with these suburban lines. There was a bus driver who, young boys, when they came with scooters, said, no, you can't get in or you put it in a bag. And he also had a solution, he offered them a big black garbage bag, where they popped up the scooter and put it. Why, you're asking everyone. That's because the bus driver said, "I'm not gonna pay for that dry cleaning bill if somebody goes on that crap show of yours." It was that simple. All the marrakers who counted, oh, I don't have a bag with me, that breed went with a light hand into the bushes, and when he came back, he had that bike again in that bush. Maybe there was a growing moment. And today, so far, I can see the kids coming with a scooter and he's got this plastic bag with him. Maybe it's possible to teach people. But if we give those old signals or the wrong ones, we're not going to grow that culture. And the fact that now we have to make some crazy big forecast, very take it right on some side, well not the armored train, but then this bike train, where there's only a bunch of units manned by bikes, but then we're gonna have a weather report and rain, then we're gonna drive like nothing again. Maybe we should, in some way, also grow the company that travels by train. Let us be honest, today we could ask young people for advice on this issue, because young people still prefer this cycling culture and train culture when they move in Europe, and I think they have a better vision than people like us 50+, who are barely driving around with the worst things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U196	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U197	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, To be honest, I didn't get an answer to any of the questions. I found out some things don't make sense, some things can't be done. But I wanted to ask what could be done. This is where our discussion went like two ways. One is that trains are overloaded and how this problem can be solved. But the focus of my question was specifically linked to the crisis involving COVID. Here's the thing: if we put in place some rules, such as traffic rules, then there are, let's say, those who are in private cars, they have to comply with these rules, but who have public cars or, like in Russia, who are bigger bosses, they'll drive any way they want. It's not good for society. When we lay down rules for catering establishments, which are mostly in private hands, then the same rules are not accepted by the state. And when the minister says, "But what can be done?" It creates, I don't know, distrust in a country that is particularly dangerous in such a crisis. When I asked half-carcassically if the virus knew he was allowed to enter the restaurant, and that's why he must have all been vaccinated, but he can't enter the train without a ticket, and that's why you can eat and stuff on that train without vaccination. These are serious problems. We can joke around here, but people get mad and can't say it's not justified. I'm afraid it is. It is very bad when the government itself undermines its authority, its decisions. And I wanted to hear the answers from you. Well, I found out that you, I don't know, are going to look up and propose to Elron that they put in the hand disinfection machines. I asked the train why they didn't. Well, for some ethical reason, and it's a big job. At the same time, when it was necessary to put these ticket selling machines in place, there was no need for any pressure. That's because he makes money on it. But this sterilization device, the hand sterilisation device, it's small, but it's still going out. I beg you, Minister, a little pressure on them. Even in this situation. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U198	There's no more calls. Minister? No, I don't. Then I will close the negotiations and we will have exhausted this item. Thank you, Minister, and have a happy birthday.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U199	It is now the case that the items on the agenda are exhausted, which means that after a hammer hit it is possible to register for a free microphone call round. After the hammer hit, gentlemen, after the hammer hit. All right, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Electricity is expensive and something should be done about it, because the increase in the price of electricity is also due to the price increases of other goods, as Kaja Kallas wrote on 7 October 2010. Today, Kaja Kallas has become Prime Minister, and it seems that he has forgotten the above. Kaja Kallas then continued: "Estonian Energia's profit side also raises questions according to the annual accounts, Eesti Energia's profit earned 2.0 billion kroons (or approximately 128 million euros in today's currency) in the previous financial year. Is the state's primary interest in making a profit from Eesti Energia and taking dividends or providing consumers with more affordable electricity? " In the New Year's we saw, ladies and gentlemen, the price of electricity that exceeded EUR 1000 per megawatt-hour. The price of CO2 has risen nearly three times and reached almost 90 euros already. Therefore, the price of energy must certainly also be viewed in the context of a green turn. If it has nothing to do with the green turn, I'm sorry, but what does the green turn have to do with it? The surge in energy prices clearly shows that Estonia needs a reform of the electricity market. The Isamaa Party has proposed a reduction in VAT as a short-term measure and a longer-term view of the reform of the electricity market. With the reform of the electricity market, people will be able to buy electricity over the counter and the state will compensate the producer for the price of the CO2 quota. In this case, the estimated price would be EUR 50 per megawatt-hour for the household consumer, which is times cheaper than the current price. At the same time, those who wish to continue to buy electricity on the stock market. To deal with the energy crisis, the biggest step of the government is the support system with which hundreds of thousands of people are sent, a hat between their fingers, to the municipalities. People who qualify for support and are in distress through the gauntlet will be able to receive support at best next month. This means that for four months people have had to pay enormous gas, electricity and heat bills, but the state has not been able to provide assistance or find a longer-term solution. Consumers who are devastated by large invoices must contact local authorities where, depending on the municipality, the information is different, starting from the dates of receipt of the application and ending with an explanation of the benefits to be taken into account. People interpret, ask and make mistakes, local government officials interpret, ask and make mistakes. There is no one happy, except the Government of the Republic. Eesti Energia is generously willing to postpone the payment of crispy bills and their logic is simple. In order to qualify for the aid, invoices must be paid. Today's support system leaves teachers, working pensioners and a large number of those in need who have increased their energy bills. Young families, although earning the average wage in the country or even a little more than the average in the country, have taken a bank loan to build their own home, are figuratively left in the rain. Also, no account is taken of NGOs, small businesses, social entrepreneurship, nursing homes, museums, this list could be continued and continued. If the trend in CO2 growth is monitored, more than EUR 300 million will be generated from the sale of the quota this year, plus 20% additional VAT. That money has to be given back to people. Today's system generates poverty and urgently needs to be changed in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U201	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U202	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are you? I didn't plan on telling this story here today, what I'm saying, but the day has brought much thought and thought forward. And I think we all have reason to think about ourselves in this situation where we really are. We're thinking too, but do we know where we are? Motivated by the statements of some of our opinion leaders, I come narrowly, of course, to the virus and its spread. There's no doubt here today that there's nothing to be expected, but he's still spreading pretty well. But to the masks. If one opinion leader says that masks are a sign of solidarity, and the other says that this is a sign of surrender, I regret to say to you that if it were that simple, there would be no problem at all. Then let's not do anything, shall we? With a few centuries of antiseptic development, all this has long been proven. Which one of you would tell your surgeon to listen to what you're bothering yourself with with the mask that you're coming to operate and put on the mask, I'm willing to go without operating me without! That's it! But then you'll have the following problems with both viral damage and bacteria. In other words, today we know: this virus, when it was originally thought to be a drop infection mainly, is actually spreading at least five meters as an aerosol and, so to speak, an internal ventilation room lasts for hours. If the infected person has been in the room and you come through there, you can also be escorted by this virus hours later. It's as simple as that. It's a mask, well, it's been physically shown. You can look at YouTube, there's also a show of how he's blocking it. If I'm wearing a mask and you're not wearing it, the risk reduction is about 60-70%. If you're wearing a mask, it's 90 and a plus. And what is it? It is especially now that we know that the vaccines do not actually give us this guarantee, so that we are infected and infected and often asymptomatic. I'm afraid that's the problem. But I don't just want to talk about masks, I'm actually coming to our working environment. I looked into it a little bit. The Labour Inspectorate has recommended analysing the working environment everywhere. Especially now, in the last two years, biological work environment, assessment of biological risk factors are important. We have done this in the Riigikogu for the staff of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The working environment of Members has never been studied, the risk assessment carried out. It's incomprehensible to me. Don't we work here? And for years? At least as a non-exhaustive analysis would have been necessary for the last two years at present, at least for the biological risk factor. And then we're gonna argue and we're gonna sue whether or not we're gonna risk being together like this next to each other. But there's a much simpler solution. Let's do a risk analysis! If you guarantee me that I'm not infected, I'll be happy to be here, I'll always be happy to be here, as you can see, I'll always be here more or less to the end. So I think we're going to take this thing rationally, rationally, and we're going to do the solutions. And I'm in that sense, it's a little bit motivated by the fact that systemic solutions tend to disappear somewhere. Not just here. Let's hope it goes better this year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-10_U203	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see any more requests. That's what we've done today, and I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Have a good night.
