ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Thursday session of the 12th working week of our VII session. In the course of implementation, it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. I'll make sure Jaak Juske wants to do it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning. We have had a social agreement that the average salary of Estonian teachers had to be 120% of the average wage of Estonia already in 2021. Instead, teachers' salaries were even frozen in the meantime. Today's government has found a little money to raise teachers' salaries, but the average wage is failing. Inflation, very high inflation, eating teachers' salaries, teachers' poor wages are getting worse. All right, ladies and gentlemen. It is high time we fulfilled our promise to the teachers. So the Social Democrats will submit a draft to the procedure, which will instruct the Government of the Republic to raise the average salary of Estonian teachers to 120% of the average wage in Estonia in two parts by autumn next year. I ask you to support this. Thank you. The draft has been delivered electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U3	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U4	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! It is never too late and we must always have the opportunity to look back in time at whether all the good decisions we have made are so good and, today, in 2022, are working. Isamaa is of the opinion and eight ambassadors are my favorite number, it is Muhu's eight heel, i.e. gentlemen Helir-Valdor Seeder, Heiki Hepner, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Raivo Tamm, Üllar Saaremäe, Priit Sibul, Andres Metsoja and Mikhail Lotman consider that the law on the election of the local government council needs audit, conversion, disproving. So be bolder to support! Keep your mind free and give the best input that what worked in 1992 may not work in 2022. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U5	Thank you. I have adopted two drafts on behalf of the Bureau and the Bureau will decide on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. I'll pass on a piece of information. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I would remind you that today, 30 minutes after the end of the regular sitting, we will have an additional session of the Riigikogu. The notice has been sent to all of you electronically at the beginning of the week. Let's do the presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U6	Seventy-six ambassadors registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U7	On today's agenda, we have two points. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Isamaa Group and the Government of the Republic. This bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. But before we go to the vote, I'm opening negotiations. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There's a bloody war for two months in Ukraine. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U9	Sorry, Heljo! There's a little too much noise in the hall. Let the speaker speak calmly. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U10	And this same war is also sealed by the bill, which will soon be final in the vote, giving an unequivocal message as the law becomes that the Estonian state is ready to act decisively with those who support Russia's aggression and incite war. This law sends a clear message that the public display of aggressive and hostile symbols is equivalent to a statement of support for the atrocities and crimes against humanity committed in Ukraine and the provocative use of such symbolism is an action against the Estonian state. The processing of the law banning the symbols of aggression went faster than usual in the Riigikogu. The main reason for this was the approaching 9th of May. I believe and hope that this day will be peaceful and restrained in Tallinn at the Cemetery of the Defence Forces as well as in the cities of Ida-Virumaa, where 9 May has traditionally been marked. I very much hope that the police will not have to observe the new provisions of the law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, which will most likely be approved by the Riigikogu in due course. To this end, the fact that after the beginning of the war there have been a few reports of hostile military symbols being brought into public space. Possibly provocators, if you want, Kremlin-minded characters, hopefully will be restrained by the same law with the penalties there. And no doubt the police will be up to their duties on 9 May and, if necessary, the Estonian state will establish itself. At the same time, the Estonian state shows its strength by allowing those who wish to go to the bronze soldier on 9 May to take flowers and candles, for example, to commemorate their relatives. Despite anxious times and tensions in society, this is permitted. Regrettably, however, a paragraph was removed from the law, which would also ban verbal hatred and incitement to war. Yes, for the third time in a short time in this speech chair, I am talking about the fact that, as a red lantern in Estonia, there has not been a law-level protest, it is not punishable. And I repeat that we have agreed with other European countries in the same value area as Europe that public incitement to violence is punishable by criminal penalties. Unfortunately, Estonia has not respected the agreement, being the only ones in Europe with Romania who have not legalised it. Public incitement to violence grows easily into action, and then it is too late to hold back and control the violence. It also mobilises people who would not be active without this kind of call. When people are called upon to enmity on the basis of their group membership or are called upon to commit violence against a particular group, nothing is happening right now. This means that there is no regulation at the level of the law. The worst thing is that hate speech encourages intolerance and violence, creating an environment in which discrimination against and attacking certain people would seem justified, even if speaking is not directly called for violence. Poverty involves a clear psychological attack, violence, or a call to it. Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U11	Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U12	In order to be condemnable and punishable, it must have clear, qualified features. If no one does anything against [them], it will boost the protesters and they will think they can do so. Finally, I would like to say that the Social Democrats support the banning of the symbols of aggression and the adoption of the corresponding law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U13	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U14	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear people of Estonia! The adoption of the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure (supporting aggression) as a law in this Chamber today is extremely important and welcome. This is a draft banning the public support, justification or denial of aggression, genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes, including the symbolism used to commit these crimes and the public display of the work, with a view to supporting or justifying them. The Reform Party Group wishes to emphasise the importance of the Act for all Estonian residents. It is important for us in the Riigikogu to give a clear message to the people that the laws and rules of the Republic of Estonia apply here. It protects the equality of persons, human dignity, health, peace and public order. The insignia of occupation and of the aggressor states will be expressly and unambiguously prohibited by the adoption of this draft. In fact, why should people living in Estonia, a free democracy, want to use them in any way? The message from this hall is: no violence, no enmity in any form, no so-called Georgi tapes and Z stars, all kinds of stars and symbols that ennoble monstrous war crimes and genocide in Ukraine or elsewhere in the world. Symbols and shapes have meaning and can unite, but they can also hurt, provoke and give birth to new violence. We don't want that. We still remember all too well when the symbols of the Republic of Estonia and even the blue black and white colour combination in any form were prohibited. We had to learn history backwards, with blood-red flags and slogans on our streets, a foreign language and strange songs. What does all this have to do with today's bill? It is, because that time is not so far away. It is because there are visible signs of aggressor messages and symbols that infiltrate our daily lives and poison public space, after all, are added. Adds sneaking, hurting. But we don't force our country's symbols and rules on anyone. We don't make you live here and love our manners. We assume that people of different nationalities want to share our ritual, learn our language and understand our minds. Let us repeat this: for 30 years, Estonia has once again been an independent democratic state, where personal freedoms and differences of opinion are protected by the Constitution, for all the people living here. History, we can't change history from the truth. And in free Estonia, everyone has the right to remember the nation's fellows who have fallen in dignified wars and conflicts, whatever the date. We believe that there can and will be consensus and peace in Estonian society, that there can be consensus in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and we will legitimise draft 585. After all, the course of this procedure showed a rare co-operation between both the opposition and the Government's will. The will of the people. We invite all members of the Riigikogu to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you to your colleagues. Long live Estonia! Long live Ukraine!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U15	Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guys in the hall! Good people of Estonia! Let us be honest, the reason we are dealing with this bill in the Riigikogu today is because the invasion of Russian troops by the Putin regime into Ukraine and the brutal massacres committed there. That is why this year, 9 May, takes place in a completely different context, and in addition to the willingness of the law enforcement authorities, the Riigikogu as the legislative assembly is responsible for providing them with the necessary framework for their action. The fact is that speaking of 9 May and the symbolism that has now been applied to justify the Russian war in Ukraine, these symbols are certainly not appropriate for the celebration of 9 May. Commemoration of the fallen or the dead is permitted, but let us do so with dignity and calmness. If we wish, let us take the flowers to the memorial or to the graves of the fallen and proceed calmly. But the symbolism that has now been applied before the Russian propaganda chariot must not be used. Certain symbols are special in the context of Ukraine and let us think about this. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I congratulate the ambassadors, practitioners and experts who contributed to the unification of the two drafts and helped to find a common political part in this Chamber. In this situation, it would be extremely short-sighted to be stubborn and chasing political change. After all, it is our common goal not to have provocative demonstrations in Estonia and to be able to live together peacefully, regardless of our nationality or home language. Trust in Estonian police is closer to 90%. I'm sure the police will use the principle of reasonableness in their work. We trust and respect the Estonian police. I would like to remind you that it is not forbidden to commemorate the victims of the war and go to the cemetery. However, we should not organise public events or processions or celebrations. We should remember the dead with dignity. Finally, let us give up on 9 May any military symbolism that supports or justifies any kind of military aggression. Let us be reasonable, let us be peaceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U17	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U18	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! Better late than neither. For years or decades, the Fatherland has been talking about how we should protect our own simple Estonia. President Kaljulaid, when he came into office, said we had to protect our own room. Today it is [a time] where we share the understanding that our ceremony is in some way threatened. Yes, in good times, we always felt that this was a fourth, second, or any other step. But wise learns from the mistakes of others, fool never learns. We understand that there is a sense of danger. We've seen what hybrid war is like. Let me remind you, at least, that Eastern Ukraine's events just started with the language law and people signed it. No one imagined what was going on there today. As early as 2014, people said they would have known it, they would not have signed it. As a country, we simply have to show that all the people of our country, citizens, we will remain here to live peacefully, not subject to provocation. To do so, however, some things need to be legalized, for usually a person does not understand how now it is that it was not before and now it is. It's like "The Nutman," isn't it? It wasn't before, now it is, but it still doesn't. Today, the Riigikogu has the understanding that we have to do something. If practitioners, police leaders, have said that this is enough for them, although the Fatherland sees that yes, this package could be much more efficient and much more precise, then I trust the practitioners. As ambassadors, we have done our best, our best to know, have found a compromise that we find very difficult to achieve often in this house. So God save Estonia! Let's assume all people understand. Maybe we'll just skip this day. We do not know how this is going, because we know that Russia has the capacity to organise some kind of provocation at any time and anywhere, which has been prepared for a long, long time. So let's say that the kindergarten children in the Red Army uniform and the ribbons are not clear in our courtroom. It was not understandable 10 years ago, it was not understandable 20 years ago and it was also not 30 years ago. We've always been benevolent, well-attituded. Today we should protect those people who have a tendency to submit to provocation. That's why I'm glad we can get at least one thing off. But the hybrid threat still stands. So it has already been established that nationalists go ahead and also refer to danger points during peacetime, and later the grand hall of the Riigikogu will come after us if it sees that there is a real problem. That's why we all stick together. We've done a good job. Of course, it is already evaluated by Estonian society. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U19	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U20	Good fellows! If the Palamuse had a hard word for half the work, it's barely a quarter of the work. Russia has a well-known story that has to do with the construction of Potemkin village. And it seems to me that there's also a quarter check and construction of Potemkin's village that we're going to make a draft that deals with one anniversary. In Latvia, when it was said that 9th May wasn't celebrated at all, and that's the whole story, here I hear hoarse, well, let's celebrate with half a cock, but let's still celebrate. Of course, Yana Toom and his branches are also present. Of course, Oudekki Loone is here with his branches. Maybe in the dark hours from the back gate, the bend will sneak up with branches. And then we're gonna fight and we're gonna fight, and then we're gonna hit the rubber in the chest, and we're gonna keep fighting, so maybe we're gonna get one ding in the media. But when we talk about taking down Narva's tank, well, it doesn't bother anyone, well, let it be. Let the couples go and bloom, let them be proud. Let them be proud of the conquest symbols. In no discussion with specialists they had the courage to say that yes, this also applies to historical symbols. No, it wasn't! That is why we have put in place a draft decision where we will deal with those that have been disturbing us all along, not a one or two-month draft. That's not the courage to do. Take this tank to the museum, start eliminating these war symbols. Don't have the guts to do it! That is why we call on everyone to support our draft decision, where we throw them out, to leave, which has been polluting our public space for a very long time. But we don't dare. We don't dare do that, we don't come with it. Because the Speaker and Toom want to sneak into the Defence Cemetery. I'll go next day, he said. I'll go next day. If he doesn't have that Georgi tape [on the breast], he's got it in his heart. The scourge of the Central Party is that at one end of the party there is a black and white wave, but at the other end of the party there is a tape of Georgi waving. Well, bravely, then! Get that tank out of here! We want you to wave blue black and black and send Toomi Georgi with a tape to think about it. One month or two months of law-making is it helpful? The principle is correct. The principle is right, we see these disturbing incidents. But the question is, do we dare more? What were we able to do, what have the police already been able to do? He's already put these Z's men in charge of public order violations. That's very good. There was a intent, there was a disturbance, the citizen who drew Z under the nose of the refugees on the window. It's done. There's another paragraph called "war propaganda." It should actually be implemented. Really! The propaganda of war is being made and, by the same logic, the Russian canals could be banned because our penal code prohibits war propaganda. The propaganda of an aggressive war that is against international law. So... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U21	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U22	... please continue to work on the subject. We are constructive, and we will also put the subject of historical monuments in it. Let's talk this through. There are also more complex topics with historical monuments, such as war graves. But there are monuments like the same symbolic Narva tank that makes no sense. I hope the Department of Defense doesn't take a wreath to a bronze soldier this year. I've been waiting for this for years. Sometimes it seems that it is even the Estonian Ministry of Defence who does such a thing. It's been a shame. But now that we have been dealing with Russia for years, all four parties in this Chamber were working hard on this, while Mart Helme and Leo Kunna talked about the threat of a new war, scratched the door of the Russian embassy and talked about visa liberalisation with Russia. So the GRU agents can march in anytime! Now, there's a difference between taking it for the sake of Potemkin's village or taking it seriously and taking it so it's done for a long time. In any case, the occupation monuments are the hottest topic in fact, because every year they are provoked. And not in 2007, but long before. We add it to it, then we support it in its entirety. Right now, we are abstaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U23	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote of 585 on the draft. Let me remind you that this requires a majority in composition. And before the vote, there's a séance. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote the draft 585 and it will require a majority in composition. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U24	There are 69 ambassadors in favour of the draft, three against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U25	We are going to the second item on today's agenda, which is the draft law amending the law on the organisation of the energy economy initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 382. This is a continuation of the second reading and I call on the Chair of the Economic Committee, Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have already passed the second reading of this bill once in this Chamber, and then we interrupted the second reading. As a reminder, we interrupted the second reading because the initiators, or the representative of the initiators, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and their partner Ministry of the Environment, could not at that point, perhaps "satisfied" is too harsh a word, but had not agreed at that point on the improvements they wanted to bring to this draft, and so we are here again. Five improvements have been received in the meantime, and this law will be much better. But the procedure itself, as required by the protocol. On Tuesday 12 April, the Commission proposed that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 21 April. And on 18 April, we decided to close the second reading, in favour of 6, against 1, and when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 4 May by 6, against 1. In the explanatory memorandum all these same processes are described and the suggestions for improvement are also, five pieces. These are, to a large extent, clarifications. Yeah, I guess they're necessary. So I guess that's why this interruption got in the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U27	And questions. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U28	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! Now that I'm no longer on your fine committee, I'm gonna ask you in this Chamber, because I just picked up this bill. At that moment, when we stopped second reading, I was talking about the remote, and I saw that coalition ambassadors all nodded to the idea that this ambition, by 42% by 2035, in today's situation where we have so far become our roommaker very much from the bloody Russian gas, and we need to move more forcefully towards the use of renewable energy, that this ambition 42% is still well below the bar. Were you discussing now, after the break-up at the Commission, to maybe increase that percentage? So you got your amendments before you cut it off, so it could be 100%. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U29	Thank you. First of all, I regret that you are no longer in our committee. In the Commission, there's just such a emptier feeling. But there was no amendment to the sots this time, but there was a [talk] last time from raising this ambition to 100%. Well, it's not quite realistic, at least in this form, to 100%, as the sots probably understand themselves. There is a need to increase ambition and take action to make it bigger both in Estonia and in Europe, and there will also be additional materials from the European Commission. That's what I explained last time. And if you look at what we've been doing here in the meantime, we've accepted 430 SE, for example, I don't remember what its exact title was, which opens up a large part or opens up the road so that the plan of sea areas can be made so that wind farms can be built and so on. So I think that we are going towards a greater goal in any case, as Estonia has usually been before. But the objectives of the energy economy within this particular draft are the same as those described in this national energy and climate plan for Estonia until 2030, so if it is to be amended, it must be changed in all documents at once.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U30	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You were kind of smiling, not patronizing, but smiling was referring to these amendments, so it was worth waiting for. To take this break out of this Parliament, why don't you tell me exactly what was the deal? These amendments, what was the miracle? Why did it take time, and what do they contain?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U32	Thank you, good questioner! My smile, yes, had not been malicious in any way, rather seen such a life. Let's just say that we in the Committee on Economic Affairs have repeatedly told our partners, those who are initiating the drafts, that they could make improvements before these drafts come here. And let us say that my colleagues in this Chamber, also Siim Kallas in the Commission, have repeatedly asked why it is so that technical improvements will come to the draft, which should seem to be ready. And I, like obviously you, have no objection to [nothing] in this Chamber that we are correcting obvious errors or details, but such work is often done on the level of executive power. It is therefore also kind of friendly, inspiring sense [directed] to these ministries so that they can do this work first, not send [the bill] here, and then we will begin to improve separately here. I would still appreciate that the role of the Riigikogu is significantly more strategic and significantly more intellectual than the pursuit of compasses, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U33	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U34	Good manager! Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I also look here at point 1 of the Act amending the Law on district heating, which mentions non-fuel renewable sources, and here it is very interesting that if wind energy is to produce hydrogen, for example, it is not here [in the letter]. It does say that if you save energy below the ground, there are mines. But on the Lithuanian border, for example, it is the case that water is pumped up the hill at night and water is flushed down during the day, electricity is produced, and it is also renewable energy. The odds are all out. But especially hydrogen. How can [to understand] why the hydrogen produced from wind energy is not intended for renewable energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U35	Thank you. Yes, this draft, after all, is actually mainly about what these objectives are, as I have already responded to the Kalvi Ring, how these renewable energy targets are calculated in accordance with the directive, then the creation of self-consumption and renewable energy communities and certificates of origin, that is the extent of this draft, so to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U36	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U37	Thank you. Good Kristen! I will now ask you about the amendments that you have made in the meantime. I understand that here the first one, where there is a reference should also be made, the second amendment, where there are deadlines, the third one where the wording is slightly corrected, and the fourth one where the wording is also corrected. This means that these first four are probably not the reasons why this draft was interrupted last time. The fifth one seems to be the real thing, the one that really got this bill suspended. Why don't you give me a little more details about that fifth one? What is it, then, and why did this part of the directive not go there? And what was the interministerial cappulation that it wasn't at the beginning? At least I think it's like the real thing, why it was interrupted last time. And if that's not the case, tell me it's not, and tell me why it was interrupted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U38	Thank you. Well, I already described why it was interrupted. There's been a lot of improvements. On this fifth point, indeed, obviously the other proposals are not now entirely such that they are only decimal, but mostly there are indeed references, as you say. Fifthly, when I look at this Commission debate we have, Rein Vaks, Head of Energy Market in MKM, said that in the meantime a new understanding has been reached or clarified with the Ministry of the Environment during the procedure for the draft. Because the fifth one actually laid down something that the directive did not say, so that correction had to be done. Well, it's in the explanations right here, I'm not going to count it all. I can't tell you what would have been if we didn't interrupt. Apparently, some other bill should have fixed it, I'm only assuming so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U39	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U40	Thank you. I'm still seeing some mistakes here. I think we should call off the second reading one more time. If we look at where to produce renewable energy, there is a forgotten sea, where one of the greatest goals is to start producing heat in Tallinn. It is written about everything else, waste water, and other things, but it is not [written] of clean water. The real question is that for renewable energy and the green turn, it has been calculated that it would have to cost some EUR 15 to 17 billion and most of it on the private side. But today we see that the private sector only gets tossed with sticks. There is no way that they would take the courage and risk of starting to set up wind farms. Or even the same last solution for the LNG terminal, which is not directly linked to the green turn. Was it also a debate on whether the country would take on all this 17 billion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U41	Thank you for your question. If this was the last question, then no, in this wording, this debate has not been held in this draft. If you ask more broadly whether there has been a debate in the Commission on the cost of the green turn and the transition, then yes, at least once a month, sometimes twice a month, these issues are up to us, energy and, more generally, security, renewable energy. I will come back to the beginning of the question first. What concerns the sea and possible use of the sea, including, for example, waste water heat or waste heat, whatever it may be called, the use for heating and cooling cities, as is the case in Helsinki and Stockholm, is one idea that has been proposed in the last few months in the example of Tallinn, which is a very large heating area and where heating prices have risen enormously. I think, in this sense, that this question points to the right place, that if there is a need to change regulations in order to make such new solutions, it would certainly be worth doing. Because we're going to meet in the autumn and all forecasts show that the spring forecast for the state budget also shows that inflation is high. Heating prices increased quite strongly as early as the spring season and there is a risk that further increases or failures may occur in the future. I don't mean to leave the houses unheated, but the price is a problem in any case, and all solutions should be sought. And in order to use new solutions, for example, in Tallinn or somewhere [somewhere], I am in favour of it, and I think that in the Commission, too, a solution must be sought. I do not quite agree with this sentence, which you say is that the state is throwing sticks into the spokes of the private sector, who wants to make different solutions. However, I recall that, on the subject of renewable energy and terrestrial wind farms, we have been debating here before, however, were still behind national defence choices and opportunities. The decision has now been made to obtain the appropriate equipment so that more wind farms can be built and this can move forward. Therefore, to sum up, I would say that perhaps things have moved more slowly than we would like, but I do not think it is so maliciously, rather they have been involved in entirely compelling reasons of public interest. And with regard to new solutions, I think that we should debate very soon, both within the Commission, between political parties and in this Chamber, because if we have something, some new ideas or technologies with which to offer consumers a more favourable price in an important area and better savings for the environment, because gas is also fossil fuel in nature, it is certainly worth doing so. In any case, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U42	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U43	Thank you. First of all, if you grasp your latest thought development a little, we know that neither the land winds nor the sea wind parks are the only problem with their rapid development being defence-related restrictions. There are other factors, such as bureaucracy, nature conservation restrictions, opposition from the community, or there is no motivation to tolerate it, so to speak, and they all stick to it. I hope that the changes you referred to before will help to do so. But by grabbing onto what Aivar Kokk was talking about, Kalvi Tough asked the Minister of Economic Affairs here about these very heat pumps. [Minister] said that it would take years, research, environmental research, to do such things in the sea at all. Do you see here the need for a change of law, or does this bill really help to move these things faster in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U44	Thank you. Two things I can answer to that question. First of all, it's a matter of local interest. The corresponding draft is in the process and, let us say, by the Committee on Economic Affairs there is such a positive pressure to get it to this Parliament as soon as possible. We have been promised this repeatedly, promised for spring, promised for Midsummer Day. But, as we know about politics, a good promise doesn't have to be fulfilled too quickly, or this promise stops working, I'm joking, you get it. In short, it has not arrived here so far, but I hope it will, because it is certainly an important part of how we can move forward with renewable energy. The second part concerning the exploitation of residual heat from seawater and waste water. I think that we should try to move forward with this as soon as possible at the level of legislation as well. It is not yet addressed in this bill. This correction should still be discussed once again in ministries or, if the process is to be speeded up, in parliamentary committees. At best, at best, at best, I think we could do this, given the working weeks, perhaps even in Parliament, for the summer. I dare say so, but I'm an optimist at the moment. If you ask how long it takes for different other processes, environmental assessments, depending on the correction, everything else, but I hope that it will rather be a two or three-year process with all the assessments. We would have what to look at, which once again, as I said, offers an alternative option in terms of utilities, a lower price, less fossil fuels, less dependence on gas, everything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U45	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U46	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! For the Tallinnians, the problem has been the compulsory obligation to join the district heating system in Tallinn, for butter, let's say. It hasn't been broken here yet. However, if you look at the other, let's say, the types of energy that are coming here in connection with the green turn, maybe these are the ones that would need the tracks. But legally, is it reasonable that all developments in Tallinn simply have to join this district heating system? Would it need adjustment, modification? Because there are other sources coming, but we understand that Tallinn Heating, Tallinn Heating still wants its monopoly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U47	Thank you. Well, let's just say that this bill maybe all of this, connecting to district heating, and so on, it doesn't matter so much, but the principle has still been that cities are being pyrified towards what is, well, let's say, fine particles, dust and everything else, better controlled. This is why, for example, there are no local boiler houses in Tallinn, which could be a little more wasteful somewhere. But I will return to this central heating [to]. For example, even central cooling can be offered in Tartu; in this sense Tartu is from Tallinn, say, a better-developed city, I would say, or at least it is moving in that direction. In Tallinn, for example, I can say that there are housing associations with whom I have been in conversation, who are more in trouble with the fact that they have taken a gas heating station for their building complex, for example, which is considerably more expensive than what Utilitas or whoever is offering in Tallinn. So it all depends on how this district heating is offered. The biomass used and the biomass used were more sustainable, and it was also cheaper at price. Today, the price of wood and biomass has gone up. Why are we even discussing that we should go this way to start using seawater and sewage, like Helsinki and Stockholm? It's a big investment, a transition, and so on. Because there has been an increase in the price of district heating, because there has been an increase in the price of gas. In addition, we have a geopolitical or value choice that we are trying to reduce gas consumption as much as possible, or at least get out of it so that we do not have a burden on the gas market. Well, there we are. But as for the merger of houses or the ringing of district heating networks, the rounding of decisions, this direct connection to this bill we are not going to circle in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U48	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U49	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! It was very sympathetic how you got to the Riigikogu in the debate in reply to my previous question so that there might be something else that could actually be done by the Riigikogu to take advantage of these new opportunities, which are already being seriously considered. Given that the pressure on the Estonian forest has grown all the time, and now with the war, it has gained new momentum, not to mention the government's stupid decisions that it is going to go more and more into the Narva oven and that it is creating new pressure to cut the forest, it is very important to look for alternatives to cogeneration plants in the same way. And given what the Minister for Economic Affairs said yesterday, well, I don't know if he didn't know, but in any case his claim was that the use of such heat pump solutions, in the context of the use of marine heat, is such a long process that you don't know anything about it, is the Committee on Economic Affairs... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U50	Time, Indrek!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U51	... is ready to address this issue in the coming weeks...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U52	Time, Indrek!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U53	...to find out if there is a need for any amendment of the law...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U54	Indrek, time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U55	Thank you. I don't know what exactly the Minister for Economic Affairs said. I can assume that he may have been based on the fact that he wanted to give a signal that it wouldn't solve things in a month or two or that fall. And indeed, he is not wrong about that. I won't. We are talking about the fact that we are creating an alternative that we know that in two or three years' time, we could have, let's say so, maybe it is difficult to say in a specific way, but it could be more environmentally friendly, as I said, to have less useable gas, or fossil fuel, in terms of the price of biomass and everything else, perhaps a more stable and somewhat more affordable way for consumers to heat houses here in Tallinn, for example. This is a large area where price increases are clearly felt and seen. This is certainly not pleasant news, especially in today's situation, looking at the overall price increase, okay. And if you ask me, as the question was, could we make law changes quickly now, I hope so. I think that the Minister for Economic Affairs will, in any case, shoulder it because I do not imagine well that without the Ministry of Economic Affairs we could somehow make the necessary changes. Well, I guess they definitely need input, and that's the point. But, of course, this idea is also recent, so it is a little new for the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Minister of Economic Affairs in that sense, because it has been discussed in the energy community for perhaps the last two months. It has, however, come first and foremost from the fact that the price of biomass has gone up and that the gas is about to happen. It's more of a result. So I say that it is more possible for everyone here to learn in this process and hope that it will succeed, because if it succeeds, it will be of great benefit to consumers. I don't deny, I get personal gain, I live in this neighborhood. My constituents live in this area. But there are a lot of people living here who hopefully will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U56	Thank you. No further questions. Now we can open negotiations. First Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U57	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Couple of minutes. I came here to give a speech even when we interrupted this second reading last time. And then the Social Democrats had tabled a series of amendments which were not supported by the Commission at the time and which could not be voted in this Chamber either. We sincerely hoped that the Ministry would understand this situation, the time we are living in, and between the two readings after the break-up, substantive and real amendments will be made to this draft. Well, as we can see, minor improvements have been made as a result of the lack of proper interpretation of the directive in the right time. Well, a little bit of a fix maybe the Ministry's own fault has been repaired. These things that I drew attention to at the time, which are currently going on in our society, the energy prices have gone up, the green energy is the only way to move forward, the ambition in 2030 is 42%, it is too low, yes, there is also a need to amend other legislation, but let us do so, we will make this ambition more ambitious. All the more so since the gas with which we have been very cheaply able to heat the capital at the top and several other Estonian settlements has become ugly today. At the same time, a series of our companies are also thinking about the future, wondering how to replace this gas. This is what Indrek said in his question that it is possible to take this residual heat both from the sea and from waste water. And from the sewage, it would be a solution without any environmental research, and we might be able to do so as soon as possible. But there are some problems and things for entrepreneurs there. So I was hoping that these things, too, had been brought into the bill between two readings by the Ministry to correct them. So you can't be content with this law. Can't be satisfied, though the direction is in the right direction. Sad! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U58	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U59	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We know that society is screaming under energy bills. At the same time, the question arises as to whose interests it is to be indecisive. What is our government's plan for green energy independence? What energy security and prices are we going to meet the next winter? These are questions and topics that interest all our people and businesses. This is an issue that we should have discussed last autumn. Unfortunately, these decisions have not come. Instead, we read press releases every day as if all decisions had been made. Unfortunately, no specific decisions have actually been taken. The question arises who will pay for this indecisiveness. It's the end-users. Both our entrepreneurs and our people. But who's responsible? After all, we have responsible people working in the government and in the ministry, but again and again the question arises as to why it is not possible to decide. Energy production must be environmentally friendly, affordable and, at the same time, energy and security must be guaranteed. Production and the Community must cover our energy needs. What is our country's plan for energy security? What will the price of electricity be for our final consumers? Clearly, our long plan should be to reduce the carbon footprint in the energy sector. But what will the Estonian carbon footprint be like in the coming years? And now we are listening to this bill and we know that the transition to green energy costs 15 to 17 billion billion according to different calculations! The euro and the plan are that most of these investments are made by private companies, private companies and private companies. And then I look at the activities of our government. The final example is the LNG terminal, which is not directly linked to the green turn, although the European Union has said that until 2035 there will also be green energy gas. In the event that private operators were prepared to make all the investments, regardless of the withdrawal of the LNG terminal in 2014, [they] went to America, the advance agreements were made, and while they were in America for a week, waiting for the government to make specific decisions, the situation has come to the conclusion that the government entrusted Elering, or its company, with the task of pulling the hat on the private operators. Imagine that they want to make an agreement to build a dock and at the same construction price, Elering will buy it. Although private operators are sending a very clear message that we are building with our own money, the state does not have to put the money in, just guarantee that if the ships no longer land at the quay in the next 12 years, it has been decided that this ship will go somewhere else, you will compensate for the difference. Private companies are not asking for this money today, maybe they don't need it at all. The fact that an agreement has been made with Finland is the biggest lie. The area where Finland wants to make the LNG terminal is ice, in winter ice. Do you know any LNG ships that are ice class ships? I don't know. Three ships should come to that LNG terminal every month. So do we order four LNG ships from South Korea for this and pay billions or do we make it here in Estonia, where the port is ice-free? Now, to the windmills. I asked the Minister yesterday why no less bid for wind power is announced. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U60	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U61	We have preached. I say we announce that one point-hour, then businesses have confidence, we put there no more than EUR 20 in the ceiling, offer down there. No, it takes away the desire for private investors to invest. Not to mention that Eesti Energia, whose [group] shares are also owned by very many Estonian people by Enefiti's public auction, cannot make investments. And then I read from the Express that the leader of Eesti Energia should suddenly be released because he wants to offer cheap electricity. At the same time, we support Elering, whose activities resulted in the price of electricity half as high this winter. If no one understood this, the fact that cable was placed between Estonia and Latvia and cheap electricity was purchased from Finland, which largely came from Russia, went from Finland to Latvia, then we paid 180 million in size to Elering and the Finnish main network operator of the same size. And then someone comes to tell us that we compensated our people for 200 million, but we took 360 million out of the back pocket. And now I'm looking at the same bill, the ministry officials are forgetting the sea. I realized that the chairman of the committee was also amazed at how this was possible. The Vice-Chancellor of Energy should examine this bill the most. The most common thing, hot water production. The story that today came from somewhere to hear this story, and for decades land heating pipes have been placed in lakes and rivers and drawn warmly from it. There's no word for hydrogen here. We have been talking for many years about the importance of hydrogen production, the transition to hydrogen transport, the planned construction of the next ferry as a hydrogen ferry. When we talk about the Livonian [cool] wind farm, we know there's so much energy left over that there's probably nothing else to do with it but save it for hydrogen. In addition, oil shale-produced gasoline could be refined and obtained with the same hydrogen, or green hydrogen, that can be put in the car and produced in Estonia as well. Those aren't very large quantities, maybe, but still their own fuel. I have to admit, I have no doubts, but there are doubts. It's like someone's working against the people of Estonia. Nobody wants to pay for the energy costs we paid this winter. I hope I'm wrong, but right now all the signs show that the next winter will be even harder. Of course, the political parties in power may then again share social assistance so that people go to the municipal door where they actually go, I don't know, Helmen may know more, but somewhere in the order of 30%. The rest will not go because the Estonian person is proud. He's not going to ask for mercy. He wants to take care of himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U62	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U63	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't plan on coming here, but listening to Aivar's story, I couldn't help it. I too have doubts and doubts. I'm talking about what I've been doing a lot for the last few weeks, about the white ship. Yes, we have declared that Russian gas, its five sharps, will be cut. Yeah, no gas molecule is coming, and so on, and so on, but autumn is coming anyway. And we're waiting for the white ship now. White ship! And the white ship has to dock at Pakri Peninsula on November 1. I'm just saying. Pakri Peninsula, the former Port of Paldiski, ice-free, and all this history, I think you know it. These ports still exist today, but on the other side of the peninsula at the mouth of the Gulf of Lahepere there is a place in Balticconnector where this pipe, a gas pipe, has been cut into limestone that reaches Tallinn and so on. In his day, Taavi Rõivas took the initiative to neglect the project with Finland. Well, then we had a big Russian friend, and the Russian gas was fine. Now all of a sudden, there's no more and there's an urgent need. And now the game is in a hurry to wait for the white ship. I repeat: on 1 November, the quay must be ready, but it must be on the high seas, at the mouth of the Bay of Lahepere, about a kilometer long. Indeed, the earlier project envisaged two or three years of work, over half a million worth of dredging and 700 metres, a quay of nearly a kilometre. Well, now it's decided that by 1 November... Oh, then the defensive mule, too, 300 meters. These eggstones float into the sea, no storming at sea to build a mile of quay is no joke. And now it's gone that we're gonna make it quick. Savingsuvarian. The bridge doesn't go like this anymore, and we're finally gonna make a little pier like this and then we're gonna put the tanker in there. But there's no tanker yet. But on November 1, a white ship must be present. Why am I saying this now? And why do I have doubts and doubts? On the other side of the peninsula is the North Port, where all these things exist. I went to see him personally this weekend. A quay over 300 metres long. Defend against the north winds. Huge territory. There are means of converting LNG into gas. There's a contract with a Norwegian company, the name of which I'm not going to say right now, but in the correspondence, it's going to be there, and it's going to be ready to dock here on 1 November. Right now he's somewhere near Argentina. I looked a few days ago. So there's a contract. What do you need? We could use a tube of about two miles across the Pakri Peninsula to the Balticconnector. Everything! But right now, the Government of the Republic has decided that the game is going to one goal. The letters from Paldiski North Harbour, official letters to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, are not even registered. Some have, but they have not now arrived, but conversations and meetings have been held for at least three years, including with Elering's leaders, who have approved it. Accordingly, the port has also operated, including the conclusion of the lease agreement. This has not now taken place in the shadow of this Russian-Ukraine war, but has taken place in the past. And my question and my hesitation and doubt is why we do this here. I asked the Minister for Economic Affairs that a few days ago, but the answers were that I didn't know where the letters were going, and so on, and the security threat and all that stuff. Friends, official letters that I'm not going to quote to you in the short term, some are, the last one just went...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U64	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U65	Yes, I would.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U66	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U67	The last letter wasn't until Tuesday. It's Thursday. It's clearly stated... I guess I should quote that when I find it. But I will tell you briefly what its contents are. The essence is that all these security considerations that we need to move the school from the North Port when the tanker arrives are not true. There are all these tests. But at this point, the government is playing for Alexela's offshore quay, whether it's 40 million or so, it's like details. There's a quick option, but somehow the Government of the Republic has kept it quiet. And I stress, we're talking about the last three years. It is now the reality that, waiting for a white ship, we are talking about energy, we are also waiting for the huge sea winds that Kihnu and Saaremaa and Sõrve should rise everywhere and lead us into a green, green country. And we're looking forward to it like Godot. Now we wait for the white ship. But cold times are coming anyway. In any case, there will be no matter whether there is war or peace. We must act quickly. And we should also act using all the opportunities we have. So here I have my doubts, just as Mr Aivaril did, and my doubts as to why we are acting. I can't talk about sea wind parks and the excellent bill Kristen has run here. But that's what's got on my mind and worry for the last two or three weeks. So let's wait for the white ship, but let's not go crazy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U68	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't take your time for long, I just wanted to fix it, that there was a statement here that the subject of hydrogen has not been dealt with here. Yeah, it's a lot! And actually, the heat has been treated, but not in the way I said when I answered Indrek Island. The changes needed to introduce it are likely to be a little more extensive. Both issues are inherently present here, but there are obviously further changes to be made for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U70	Thank you. There are no more requests and I will close the negotiations. The amendments now need to be examined. The total number of amendments is five. The first amendment is drafted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Amendment 2, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 3, also tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 4, by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Commission itself, has taken full account of this. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. We have examined all the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 382 be terminated. No competing proposals have been received here, so the second reading has been completed. This has exhausted today's agenda and the session is closed. Just to remind you once again that in 30 minutes an additional sitting will begin right here in the Riigikogu Hall. So, I'll meet you at 11-43, which we'll meet at 11.43. The sitting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U71	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! We will begin the further session of the VIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday, 21 April 2022. I have convened an additional meeting on the agenda prepared by the Riigikogu pursuant to § 49 (3) of the Rules of Procedure Act and the Bureau of the Riigikogu on the basis of the decision of 18 April of this year. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. I ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair from the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U72	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates six draft laws. First, the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act, the Emergency Act and the Competition Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Civil Status Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior. Fourthly, the draft law supplementing the State Fees Act. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Workers' Working Conditions Act and the Employment Contracts Act. And the draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance and the organisation of health services. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when these three draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. All six draft laws have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U73	Thank you. There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted six drafts and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Dear colleagues, first of all, with regard to the verification of presence, such information that the Riigikogu's decision-making at the additional session of the Riigikogu is valid if more than half of the Riigikogu's membership is present, that is § 76 of the [Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu]. During the additional sitting of the Riigikogu, the presence shall be checked before the vote if any member of the Riigikogu requests a check of the presence. In the absence of a quorum, the sitting shall terminate automatically. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U74	74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 27. And now to the agenda. Pursuant to § 55 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the agenda for the additional sitting must be approved at the beginning of the session. The agenda for confirmation is, good colleagues, distributed on your desks. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall vote on the agenda for the additional sitting of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu on 21 April. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U75	In favour of 74, no objectors or abstentions, the agenda has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U76	Dear fellow Members, I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu of the Ukrainian parliament, Olena Šuljaki, so that she can present her address here in the Riigikogu Chair. Please! From a technical point of view, the address is read in Ukrainian and the Estonian translation is read aside.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U77	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply grateful for the opportunity to perform in this Chamber. In difficult times, true friendship, genuine care, and genuine support are especially precious. And that's what's fair to people and to the state. Estonia is one of the countries that we Ukrainians can call a true friend who has not failed and who has supported us at the most difficult moments in Ukrainian history. Ukraine is fighting on every front today. But there is no front where we would not feel real and active support from Estonia. You are helping with weapons, sheltering Ukrainian refugees, closing ports for Russian ships and cancelling visas for those who use neo-fascist and neo-Nazi symbols of the Putin regime. Estonia's decision to suspend Russian gas imports until the end of the year can set an example for many other European countries, also economically stronger. The fact that Estonian leaders went to Ukraine during our fight is a real sign of solidarity and courage to be with us against the aggressor. Once again, I would like to thank you, MPs, and the whole people for their support, solidarity and understanding of common threats. For being with us in difficult times. Today, there will be a historic vote in this Chamber for Ukraine. That Russia's action against Ukraine is recognised as a genocide, we have asked many nations, but for the first time it has been put to a vote at parliamentary level in favour of a European state. It is very symbolic that Estonia is the first to address this issue, because it was Estonia that first recognised the Holodomor committed by the Stalin regime in 1993 as the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Now you are dealing with the new genocide that Russia is committing against the Ukrainian people, but already in the 21st century. It's important for the tens of thousands of deaths. It's important to those who were tortured and raped. It's important to those whose houses have been destroyed. It's important to these people, to the hundreds of thousands who are forced to hide in the basements today in Mariupoli from bombings. Why is this important to the Ukrainians? [It is important] to those who have proved to be victims and to those who have survived this hell, because this qualification as a crime leads to irreversible punishment, starting with the perpetrators, ending with the Russian President, Vladimir Putin. We hope that this decision will be taken by the Estonian Parliament and that all parliaments of civilised countries will follow Estonia's [model]. Recognition of the genocide is important not only for Ukraine but also for Europe and the rest of the world. In Ukraine, people were not tortured or raped for being armed or for resisting. They were killed for being part of the Ukrainian nation. They were killed for living here in Ukraine. There is a threat to the whole world because it is very easy to replace the name of Ukraine with the name of any other country that was once part of the Russian Empire or in the Russian sphere of influence. If today the world does not recognise as genocide what was in Ukraine yesterday, genocide can reach other nations in the world tomorrow. Dear Speaker and Members of Parliament, At this moment, when we are in great Tallinn, Mariupoli has women, old people and children in the basements of AzovstaI. Putin's regime, bombardment with multiton bombs, and it's not excluded that he's also using a chemical weapon, as it's been before, our common duty today is to do everything to stop genocide. It is our common duty to make sure that it never happens again, anywhere, in any country. I believe that together we can achieve this goal. Humanity always conquers fascism, life conquers death, and light conquers darkness. Our victory in this terrible war is your victory and the victory of all mankind. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U79	Good fellows! We will continue to go to the second item, which is the members of the Riig Parliament Urmas Reinsalu, Siim, Priit Siul, Heiki Hepner, Raivo Tamme, Üllar Saaremäe, Aivar Koka, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Andres Metsoja, Tõnis Möldri, Mikail Lotman, Marko Mihhaiil Lotman, Marko Mihkelson, Ülle Rajasalu, Martnet vessel, Jüri Ratat, Oudekki Loone, Valdo Randpere, Kristen Michal, Erk Keldo, Jaanus Kari, Toomas Kivi Kivi, Toomas Kivi Ki Ki Ki Ki Ki Kivi, Paul Pu Estonia, Aivar Sõerdi, Andrus Sender, Andrus Seed, Toomas Järve, Sulev Kanni Järve, Mat Kand Mati, Ants Lates, Merry Ai, Rim, Rim on Kum, which are Kum, which are Kum, which we are the members are the members of KKKKKKKKKKKKKK, are K, are K, are KKK, Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Messsssssssssssssssssssssssssss, which are the members of the members, are KKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK, Me Me Me Me Me Me Messssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss, Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Messssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss, I ask Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U80	Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine! Good people of Estonia! Good people of Ukraine! At this difficult time, as the Ukrainian people continue to fight against the aggression of the Russian Federation, more and more crimes are being committed which require a clear and appropriate legal assessment. The acts committed by the Russian Federation's armed forces are no longer merely acts of aggression, but aim at the systematic and planned destruction of the Ukrainian people and their peculiarities and the withdrawal of the Ukrainian people's right to self-determination. On the basis of the above, it is necessary to immediately recognise as a genocide against the Ukrainian people the acts committed by the armed forces of the Russian Federation during the last phase of the military aggression against Ukraine, which began on 24 February this year. According to the United Nations Convention against Genocide and the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, genocide is an act committed with the intention of destroying, in whole or in part, national, ethnic, racial or religious entities in the following ways: First of all, the killing of members of this unit. Second, causing serious physical injuries or mental defects to the members of the unit. Third, the intentional imposition on an entity of living conditions that lead to the total or partial destruction of [the unit]. [Fourth,] the implementation of measures to prevent the birth rate within the unit, and [Fifteenth,] the forced relocation of children from one unit to another. In order to recognise genocide, it must be established that the actions committed are characterised by: First, they are directed against a certain group of protected people, which can be distinguished by ethnic, racial, or religious origin. Secondly, they aim at the partial or total destruction of the protected group. And thirdly, they must be expressed in at least one of the forms set out in the Convention and the Statute. It is important to emphasise several legal aspects on the basis of international law and criminal court practice. Firstly, the recognition of genocide does not require, in the example of the Yugoslavian tribunal, the existence of a general formal genocide plan. Secondly, the genocide case in Rwanda does not have to be the main objective of the perpetrators. And thirdly, the example of the Yugoslavian tribunal does not have a minimum border on the number of victims. The original texts of the Convention and the Statute shall use the term "national group'. The content of this term cannot be linked to just one nation, as often tried by representatives of the Russian world, because such a translation unduly narrows the content of the Convention and leaves without protection the whole communities of people, which may belong to people of different nationalities. The case law has introduced a broader approach to the national unit, the national group, which, on the one hand, corresponds to the objectives of the Convention and the Statute, and, on the other hand, to the semantic meaning of the English and national words. According to the decision of the International Criminal Tribunal of Rwanda, the national unit is a group of people who are perceived to be legally linked and that related reason is based on common citizenship and mutual rights and obligations. The circumstances prior to and accompanying the aggressive war unleashed and waged by the Russian Federation against Ukraine unequivocally point to the intention of the Russian Federation leadership to destroy the Ukrainian people. Even before the Russian Federation began a full-scale invasion of Ukrainian territory, Vladimir Putin denied Ukraine as a separate country and declared that Ukraine was an integral part of Russia. Putin's claim that Ukrainian and Russian nationality are not separate nationalities but are one nation does not, in fact, mean denying the existence of one of these two nationalities. The declared objective of Russian aggression is the denacification of Ukraine. This term has been designed precisely to link military aggression to the destruction of Nazis who allegedly live throughout Ukraine. The Russian authorities call Nazisists Ukrainians who deny that only one nation exists and are fighting for the right of self-determination of the Ukrainian people. The Russian national international news portal RIA Novosti had published an article entitled "What Russia Must Do With Ukraine," which pointed out that the denacification of Ukrainians is a regrowing process achieved through the suppression of ideological repression and strict censorship of Nazi guidelines: not only in the areas of politics but also in the fields of culture and education. This article states that denacification inevitably leads to deucraination. The armed forces of the Russian Federation carry out activities against the civilian population on Ukrainian territory with the intention of destroying, in whole or in part, the Ukrainian people as a separate ethnic group, causing serious physical or mental injuries to the members of the group, deliberately creating living conditions for the Ukrainian population which cause the total or partial destruction of the Ukrainian people by forced the transfer of Ukrainian children to the territory of the Russian Federation or to the territory of Ukraine temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation. In the temporarily occupied territory of the Russian Federation's armed forces, such as Butchas, Borodyanka, Mariupoli, Hostomelis, Irpin and many other settlements in the territory of Ukraine, these acts of terror are a mass fact expressed in numerous cases of killing, robbery, imprisonment, torture, rape, deportation, miscarriage of the bodies of people killed and tortured, people and whole families, including children, who attempted to evacuate Donetsk, Kiev, Luhanski, Sumy, Kharkiv, Herson, Chernikhiv Oblast. After the release of the occupied territory of the Russian Federation, more and more inhuman and horrible facts are revealed. The Okupandid deliberately directs war against the civilian population, objects and objects under special protection, hospitals, schools, kindergartens, as in Mariupoli's case: tossing bombs to the maternity house and theatre, where people were hidden and the building was marked "Children," destroying virtually whole cities: Volnovahah, Izjum, Mariupol, Ahtirka, Chernihiv, Shchastja and other settlements. In Hostomel, swastikas were systematically burned to the bodies of raped women, in an identified phone call the Russian soldier answers the question whether he is sorry for the dead Ukrainian children that they are not, because they are Ukrainians. Special attention should be paid to the numerous facts which demonstrate the creation of living conditions intended to physically destroy the Ukrainian population. The blockade of settlements, the destruction of civil infrastructure in the relevant settlements, the destruction of electrical, water and heat supplies, the obstruction of access to humanitarian cargoes and the evacuation of the civilian population, deprives the population of access to basic services necessary for survival, namely water, food, indoor warm weather, medicines and medical care, and is intended to cause extreme suffering with the ultimate aim of physically destroying the civilian population in several areas of Ukraine's territory. This activity involves the use of war[crime].. hunger as a method of war and crimes against humanity in the form of the destruction of the civilian population. The blockade of metropolitan areas such as Mariupoli and Chernihiv proves the intention of the Russian Federation to destroy at least some of the Ukrainian people. The fact that thousands of representatives of the civilian population in Ukraine, including children, have been forced to relocate to the territory of the Russian Federation or to the territory of Ukraine temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation, is also numerous. The forced expulsion and relocation of Ukrainian citizens, such as the Mariupoli people, also demonstrates the intention to destroy the Ukrainian people, to end their existence on a given territory. The forced relocation of Ukrainian children to the territory of the Russian Federation, their placing in a foreign environment, is evidence of the objective of destroying their self-determination as a Ukrainian. Several activities of the Russian Federation are also aimed at creating conditions that will lead to the gradual destruction of the Ukrainian people by undermining economic capacity and security. This is reflected in the destruction of economic infrastructure sites: damage to grain storage facilities, obstruction of the cultivation campaign, blockade of maritime freight routes, destruction of electricity and gas transport infrastructure. This activity is intended to create preconditions for the gradual impoverishment of the Ukrainian people, for the shortage of food and other resources needed to survive. In the temporarily occupied territories of the Russian Federation, an education is immediately introduced in the Russian language and in the Russian ideological trend, which also demonstrates the intention to destroy Ukraine's identity and nationality. Ukrainian historical literature and Ukrainian fiction that is not in line with the postulates of Kremlin propaganda will be removed from the libraries of temporarily occupied Luhanski, Donetsk, Chernihiv and Sumü territories. It involves so-called "military police" units in Russia. It should be noted that genocide involving the physical destruction of a particular protected group often involves the attacking and destruction of objects of cultural and historical heritage, religious objects and buildings. Targeted action to crush Ukrainian museums, Ukrainian historical monuments, places of worship, destruction of Ukrainian books, prohibition of the use of Ukrainian in areas controlled by the occupiers is an obvious attempt to destroy and eliminate cultural, historical and linguistic features that are characteristic of the Ukrainian people and unite them. This action proves that there is an intention to physically destroy the Ukrainian people. The above facts therefore allow the Russian Federation, in its entirety, to assume that its activities during armed aggression are aimed at the destruction of the Ukrainian people and constitute a genocide. At the time of this application, the Ukrainian prosecutor's office had already started more than 5,800 criminal investigations into war crimes. The list of these crimes is at the disposal of the applicants by the Ukrainian State. The draft statement [to be drawn up] is preceded by a review of the list submitted by the Ukrainian Government, an examination of the statement by the Ukrainian High Raad and an explanatory statement proposing that the world Parliaments recognise this aggression as genocide, testimony from witnesses and theoretical assessment of the three experts, sworn advocate Norman Asa, the expert in military law, Evgeny Tülonenko, and the analyses of Maria Hrabarcuk. Why is today's statement important? First, because the victims deserve justice. Secondly, because Estonia has also acceded to the International Convention against Genocide, according to which the Parties confirm that genocide committed during war or peace is a crime of international law that they undertake to prevent and punish. The right assessment makes the countries of the world more obliged to intervene in order to prevent and stop genocide. According to the former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, the countries of the world have collectively committed themselves to intervene and protect the population from genocide, war crimes and ethnic cleansing in 2005 after Rwanda and Srebrenica. Its ideal basis is the corresponding joint return of world leaders and the decision of the General Assembly confirming it since 2005. There is Article 5 of NATO. But there is also Article 5 of humanity. And this was felt very precisely by French President Macron, who stated last week: "The states that think it is genocide are obliged to intervene under international law. Is that what people want? I don't think so. "President Macron continues: "Everyone should maintain a sense of proportion; it will not help Ukraine if everyone enters the undiagnosed verbal escalation." The initiators of the draft act have drawn both moral and legal conclusions, and consequently our proposal to the Riigikogu is to declare the war of aggression of the Russian Federation a genocide. It is our duty to humanity, to the people of Ukraine. In order to exert pressure on the Russian Federation, it is necessary to seek stronger sanctions from the countries of the world against the Russian Federation and more extensive aid shipments to Ukraine, in particular, attacks on weapons and ammunition. In order to prevent criminals from getting away with it, we call for a separate international court to be set up in order to bring Vladimir Putin and his accomplices to justice under a transnational treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our procedure provides that a member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to either of the rapporteurs. There are no questions. Good waitress, thank you! I now ask Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to present the Chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U82	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good guests! Ladies and gentlemen, The Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu dealt with 84 members of the Riigikogu at a rapid pace of the draft statement initiated on 13 April, as it is an extremely important and necessary declaration of will that the Riigikogu is doing today in this Chamber. The Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore met already on Monday and Tuesday this week to deal with this draft at its meetings. As the initiator of the draft act, Urmas Reinsalu presented the points set out in the draft to the Commission and ensured that the central point of this statement was to evaluate the war crimes of the Russian Federation as a genocide and to call on other parliaments of the world's countries to do the same. The Commission held a very substantive debate, with members from all political groups represented. As amended, which mainly focused on linguistic rather than substantive improvements, you can see that these improvements have also been underlined, the Commission decided by consensus on 19 April to endorse the draft text and appoint Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as the representative of the lead committee at first reading. For my part, all I am saying is that what we are about to do in the vote, to express our will, is a very unique step. A unique step in the sense that we are not only the first Parliament, after the declaration and call for the parliaments of the world, to call genocide through war crimes in Ukraine, but also unique because we are doing this at a time when every minute, every minute, when we are discussing these issues here, the Ukrainian people are facing a threat. They may have been killed, raped, deported, tortured, and only because they're Ukrainians. By expressing our will, we call on our fellow Members in the world to call what is happening in Ukraine a genocide and to do everything they can to stop this genocide and do everything to help Ukraine, the Ukrainian people, in the fight for their freedom, to escape what the Russian Federation has planned in this war of destruction. I call on everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U83	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you. There is now an opportunity to open negotiations and the representatives of the political groups and committees can take the floor. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask the representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Anti Polandmets to the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U84	Good Ukrainian guests! Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Ukrainian War of Independence is ongoing. We've been through all this. Our neighboring nations have gone through this. This battle between David and Goliath is very similar to the Finnish winter war when a small country showed courage and won. The Russian attack in its brutality is nothing more than an invasion of the Mongols. Russia's history record depicts it as a particularly brutal brutality. And now they're doing it themselves. In 1240 Batu Khan conquered Kiev. During the conquest, 50,000 citizens left their lives, a few thousand survived. The city was looted and burned down. But Kiev survived in 2022. Russia is doing what Batu-khaan, Mariupolis, Izjum, Kharkiv and hundreds of other towns and villages do. The bows and swords have been replaced by ballistic missiles, but the brutality is the same as it was eight centuries ago. Russia did not consider the Ukrainian spirit. They read the weapons and made sure the Ukrainians had less of everything. But this imperialist madness didn't count on the Ukrainian people fighting. In their arrogance, they said you didn't even exist. But they exist and do what Finland did in the winter war, in front of the whole world. Russian imperialism refuses to recognise the right of neighbouring countries to exist, even the right to be a nation, the right to the lives of peoples, statehood and freedom. But it won't work. The Bat-Khan doctrine doesn't go through in the 21st century. Estonia has contributed the most per capita. There was a moment when we were almost ahead of everyone in absolute numbers. And that's how it's supposed to be. We proposed a flight ban right here in the hall. That's what the whole world was talking about. Europe must do its utmost not to feed today's Bat-Khan money. These mistakes are all done. It was amazing to know that Russian ballistic missiles were flying French engines. It was astonishing to learn that England banned the sale of electronics for the production of Russian drones. Why would they do that? The war lasted from 2014. Russian tanks were practicing with German simulators. Why would they do that? But it's never too late. Now is the time to react. We know that money is still flowing from Russian gas to Moscow for oil to keep the machine running. Extra time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U85	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U86	Let's get this wire out. Estonia has taken the right steps now. We set an example for everyone in almost everything in support of Ukraine. This is not the first time Ukraine has been exposed to genocide. Three artificial famines have been arranged in the 20th century. Massacres are a known fact of Ukrainian history. Who's made them? Mostly "brotherhood." It's the Batu Khan brotherhood, no one needs one. Paragraph 90 of our Penal Code speaks of genocide crimes against national, ethnic, racial, religious, opposition to the occupation regime or any other member of the social group, torture, damage to health. This is the sign that we can already take clear positions. It is clear that members of the social group and opposition to the occupation regime were destroyed. It's exactly the same thing as this. That is what has been done in Butcha and elsewhere. People resisting the occupation regime were destroyed by groups and systematically. Deported. We know what deportation is. Deportation in all its brutality. We do the Memorial Day twice a year. Soon the Ukrainians will also come to a great deal of grief, apart from remembering the Holodomor's famines, all these horrors. But I dare say this is the third fall of the Russian Empire. In 1917 several nations got out of the cage. Estonia fought free. Poland fought free. Finland, Latvia and Lithuania fought free. All aggression crimes, war crimes have been committed. But the Batu Khan doctrine doesn't work. The Grozny doctrine of bombing everything isn't going to work. It was developed by Gratchev, and everything would be bombarded if it couldn't be won. And now it's being carried out by Dvornikov, the Syrian butcher. All crimes have already been committed. The Bat-Khan doctrine is failing. Long live Ukraine! Glory to the heroes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U87	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party Mati Raidma. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine! Today is the 57th day of war, the bloody war. No one in the world could imagine what a tragedy it would be. Apparently, the world didn't understand Putin's statement that this was a special operation, and his sentence was interrupted. In fact, yes, it is a special operation to destroy the people, and there is also the word "genocide" in the world. That is why we are all united here today in expressing this truth, supporting Ukraine and giving the message to the whole world: do not be afraid to use true words because it gives the right character. What is happening in Ukraine is not just a war, because "war" has actually been a bit worn out in the world of speech throughout the ages. It's the destruction of the people, it's the destruction of settlements. It's torturing the people, rape. This is a deportation, over 100,000 children have been violently deported to Russia's expanse. It's genocide. Let's not be afraid to say it. We are with Ukraine today to assure the whole world that now, at last, open your eyes and hurry to help, because it is a very, very critical moment. A deep bow to the Ukrainian people for its heroism, its inner power to resist evil. We're with you. In fact, today we can use not "you and me," but we are "we" in our common values and our own feelings and support for each other. Today's statement is only one stage, but an important stage in the delivery of the message. Everyone has a role to play in this vortex of war. Everyone can contribute somehow. As a Parliament, we can contribute with such statements in order to explain how much urgent assistance needs to be taken up today in the world. You can't negotiate with the genocidalist, it's unthinkable. The organizer of the genocide must be fought to the end. Therefore, calls for arms assistance are very right. We can't talk about a truce, there can't be peace with a genocideist. We have to go to the end, and we'll go with you. Dear friends of Ukraine, we're right next to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U89	Thank you. Here, yes, there are representatives of committees and political groups. I would like to ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Mikhail Lotman. Of course, please! [[The performer's asking for more time.]] Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U90	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable guests from Verhovna Rada! Envoys! Ladies and gentlemen, The statement adopted today is not just another declaration, but a serious accusation and has serious consequences. Although the word "genocide" has often been used lightly in the press, it has a strong meaning in the international legal system. President Biden described what was happening in Ukraine as a genocide, but later it was explained that it was his emotional assessment and that the final assessment should be made by lawyers. On the other hand, President Macron called for the word 'genocide' not to be used, as this would require intervention. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a preposterous logic. We follow a different logic. If genocide occurs, it is our minimum duty to dare to call it that. Failure to do so is particularly shameful in a situation where the aggressor does not hide his plan to destroy the Ukrainian nation. "Genocide" is not only an emotional or legal term. This concept has a definite political dimension. The political declaration does not replace the judgment, but can shape the framework for the future prosecution. In this regard, we are not only based on President Zelenskõ's call and on President Biden's emotional assessment, but also on the three independent expert analyses of Estonian lawyers. Yes, what is happening now in Ukraine is genocide. Emotions must be abandoned and focused on the facts identified and their qualification in terms of international law. As regards the war in Ukraine, Russia must be accused of the following crimes: First charge: a crime against peace. Unprovoked aggression against a sovereign state initiated on 24 February is a crime against peace, in accordance with the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and UN General Assembly Resolution 3314. Two: war crimes. According to the Rome Statute, the targeted killing of civilians and the destruction of civilian objects are a war crime. The list of war crimes committed by the Russian armed forces contains hundreds of cases. They were also classified as war crimes by the OSCE report. In particular, the targeted destruction of the occupiers' cultural monuments, especially those with national character, must be highlighted. Third: crimes against humanity. When war crimes have been committed by the state and are targeted on behalf of the state, they are classified as crimes against humanity according to the Rome Statute. What the Russian army has committed in Ukraine qualifies as crimes against humanity. The state allows, directs and recognizes the perpetrators of war crimes. Criminals are encouraged and rewarded. For example, the 64th Motorized Rifle Brigade in Butcha organized several different acts of genocide. On this basis, the Russian President awarded the brigade the honorary title of the Guard. Four: genocide. Genocide is considered the most difficult form of crimes against humanity. The Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide, adopted in 1948, provides for five acts, each of which qualifies as genocide, and all five acts have been documented in Ukraine. Therefore, documented facts allow Ukraine to qualify as genocide, targeted at the destruction of Ukrainian nationality, Ukrainian population and Ukrainian culture. It can be said with certainty that since World War II, no other country has carried out such a large - scale and diverse genocide. All five types of genocide crimes have been committed in Ukraine. Genocide acts in Ukraine are not a few exes. They are part of Russia's overall military strategy, which in turn is the conduct of deucraination policy and ideology. There is an unbroken chain linking the Ukrainian senior leadership, the Putin regime ideology propaganda and criminal warfare methods with the marauding soldier and his wife, who urges this soldier to kidnap and rape Ukrainian women. It's all a complex. How do we describe Russia today? The outstanding German philosopher Karl Jaspers proposed the term "criminal state." The criminal state is not a country that commits one or another crime, but a country that systematically creates and restores the so-called 'non-right'. Putini Russia is a criminal state. The genocide in Ukraine was committed by the same criminal state that destroyed the beginnings of civil society and the rule of law in Russia, killed and imprisoned opposition politicians and dissidents on the basis of false accusations, and organised a raid on those who dare to support peace. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you once again that the heroic Ukrainian people are fighting not only for themselves, but for the freedom, honour and dignity of all Western civilization. The blood of innocent victims cries to heaven and demands righteousness. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that we will accept this statement today, but I call on you to adopt it unanimously. Thank you. Slava Ukrainiani!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U91	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Lauri Läänemets.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine! The courage of Ukraine's country and its people is writing a new chapter in the history of Europe and the world. This has prompted changes in the current foreign and security policy of several countries. It has given work to NATO and deepened cooperation in the European Union. The courage, strength and will of the Ukrainians to stand firm for their country and their people have become examples for democratic countries. Unfortunately, this has all come at a very high price. Tens of thousands of people have lost their lives. Millions of people's lives have been destroyed. The aggression is accompanied by extraordinary brutality on the part of the Russian political leadership and the military. The terrible signs of war have become the attacking, beating, rape, deportation and killing of the civilian population, not to mention kidnapping and stealing. The blood work continues, there are more victims every day. The Russian roof and the military leadership either deny or justify what has been done. This is a war to abolish the Ukrainian state, to abolish the people. It's genocide. We're going to take a statement in the light of this, or dark shadow. Some might say another formal declaration, just paper, but not. Today's statement is a guideline of the democratic and parliamentary Estonian National Council to its government and a call to other countries for condemnation and trial of crimes, but not just for this purpose. First thing we have to do is end this war. The right and fair end can be the victory of Ukraine, i.e. the decisive and final exorcism of Russian troops from Ukraine's territories, waters and air. Today's statement is a guideline to the government to make even more diplomatic and military efforts to ensure that democratic states provide Ukraine with so much arms and humanitarian aid and international support that the forces of the Russian Federation will be expelled from Ukraine. I stress, kicked out, because we can't talk Russia out. Democratic countries' support for Ukraine must be clearly targeted, not just aid for war, not just a random contribution from each country, but a clear joint support for crowding out every last Russian soldier. If it requires tanks of battalions, then they must be given. If it requires more driving-beam capability, then it must be done. The only way for an aggressor-state soldier to stay in Ukraine could be dead. The only way Putin can negotiate is to exchange prisoners of war. There's going to be a trial. The people of Ukraine will get justice and justice. It does not bring back lost lives, nor does it undo the crimes that have been committed, but it sets the frames for Russia that were not set after World War II and which unfortunately the West failed to meet in hope of good expectations in the nineties. Evil can only be fought with force, and punishing evil must be inevitable. Ukraine expects the decisive support of us and other free nations to do this, and that is what we will give as a staunch ally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U93	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Enn Eesmaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U94	Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, Ambassador. Good coworkers! According to one fundamental theory, there was a word at the beginning of the world's creation. And that word was light. We have the opportunity to say our word to ensure that there is no darkness at the end of our world, and to do so with the people of Ukraine, with all those who, even at this hour, are in the hands of a weapon, fighting for their people, for their own country, for their own family, and, in fact, for the whole European right to continue living in the world, which was probably meant by the one who said in the beginning: "Let there be light! " The Centre Party supports this statement, which is our opportunity to use the word weapon against real weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U95	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Dear colleagues, now we are going to examine the amendments. No amendments were tabled, and we will go to the preparation and conduct of the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will vote on the draft statement by 84 members of the Riigikogu 584. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-21_U96	With the result of 86 votes against and no abstentions, 584 applications from 84 members of the Riigikogu have been accepted. [[Let's hear it.]] Dear colleagues, the second item is closed and our sitting is also closed. I thank you and your strength in our work.
