ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Good fellows! We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 1st working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U2	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased by the Social Democrats to hand over the draft amendment to the Holidays and Celebrations Act, which aims to give people an additional holiday for a national holiday or a public holiday that has fallen to the weekend. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Compared to Europe, Estonia has more than average working days and working hours and our people...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U3	Good waitress, I apologize to you for a moment. Dear colleagues, please respect the waitress and those who wish to listen. Discussions are always positive, but we are doing them outside the hall now. Good waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U4	I tried to talk really hard, but I still didn't. Compared to Europe, more work days and working hours are made in Estonia than average, so our people can rest less. The number of days of rest varies from year to year. In the beginning of the year, our working people will be deprived of five free days, since the public holiday is either Saturday or Sunday. It makes perfect sense to change the law so that people can rest a little longer. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The draft Social Democrats will give an extra holiday for the weekend on the next working day. And, of course, the day off is not for a public holiday, which is always Sunday, or the first holiday of Easter, will not be compensated. Maybe some examples. Additional holidays for a public holiday on the weekend are given in, for example, Belgium, Bulgaria, Spain, Ireland and Luxembourg. In Malta, public holidays during the weekend are partially compensated. We are also confident that this will in no way endanger our economy. When people are rested, they also have greater work and productivity. Thank you. It's been wired electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U5	Got it. Thank you. More, please, good colleagues, questions, drafts. It is not just the representatives of the political groups here; everyone can give here. There's no more... Oh, procedural question, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U6	Yeah, we were hoping the Prime Minister would be here tonight. Monday and Tuesday were questions on the subject. Have you gotten in touch with him on the phone now and have we received an answer, or do members of the Riigikogu still have to go to Stenbock's house today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U7	Thank you. Yeah, I've made contact with the Prime Minister, he's answered that he's not coming. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U8	Thank you, good Chairman! But maybe it's...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U9	I'm so sorry! Good fellows, I'm asking for silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U10	Thank you, good Chairman! But maybe you have some hope that maybe next week the Prime Minister will come to Parliament and this would not be Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U11	Thank you. You know that, like me, next week we have working days Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. The law provides an opportunity for government members to make political statements. There's no way we can put a hand on it. I've told you, I even favor it if anyone has a wish. Well, you see, now there are no drafts and no questions are handed over, but maybe it's a warm-up for the bill and the questioning. Mart Helme, procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have basically the same issue...... question. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] There would be a request to the Chairman and the Management Board of the Riigikogu that we do not start next week with the same procedural issues as we started this week. It is the weekend, Thursday-Fridays are working days, perhaps you will be able to find out, in the context of next week, that the Prime Minister should discuss not only the increase in electricity prices but also the question of price increases, their compensation and people's incomes specifically here. We can see how society is literally boiling right now, and I totally agree with the Argo Ideon, who writes in today's Earthpaper that everyone is wired and batteries are empty. Let's try to unplug these wires and fill up the batteries, but for that we need the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's clear messages and visions and visions, which are still going to happen. I put it to your heart that you will find out...... that next week the Prime Minister will really be in front of us and not fulfil his routine duty in the form of Question Time, but come specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U13	Thank you. First of all, I'm really asking for silence in the hall. We are trying to implement the sitting, and it is very difficult to do so when there is so much noise in the Chamber. There is one way, of course, that I can take the manager's break and we can hold these meetings and then come back here, but let's try to move on right now. Thank you for the information. We will certainly convey to the Head of the Government of the Republic, the Prime Minister, that there is still a wish for members of the Riigikogu to come forward here. A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U14	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, there are no substantive work points on our agenda today, and Members of Parliament have proposed today, in the energy price crisis, to invite the Prime Minister to discuss the government's view and to hold a parliamentary dialogue in which the political forces can present their views. As an excuse that this cannot be done, the government responded that the energy crisis will be discussed precisely today, Thursday, by the Government of the Republic. However, I heard this morning about Rain Radio, where the Prime Minister spoke, saying that these proposals to resolve the energy crisis will not even be put on the table in today's government session, which the Centre Party has done. With regard to Kristen Michal's proposals, Ansip also made proposals that they were solo and would not be put on the table. In short, substantive proposals, no matter how good or bad they are in anyone's view, are not really going to be discussed by the government today. Consequently, the Prime Minister of the Government will have no solution today and the Prime Minister would have the opportunity to come to the sitting of the Riigikogu today. And I have a proposal, as you yourself referred to as an opportunity, to take the chairman's break of 30 minutes. If the government does not recommend discussing the energy crisis, we will discuss it in Parliament, which is the centre of the people's representation in order to find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U15	Thank you. My 30 minutes had to do with this, this recess, that there was a lot of noise in the hall, and I thought you'd like to discuss that we can do a nice break here before we check the presence. But I also said it would be wiser to go on without a break. And I understand your wish, too. I think that this, in the great sense, coincides with the wish of the previous speaker that the Prime Minister should come before the Riigikogu. This information has been passed on to him, and I'm sure, if he has that desire and willingness, I think he'll definitely come here to discuss it. The government versus the Riigikogu, I think, here in any case, we must proceed from the principle of separation of powers. Procedural question, Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U16	Thank you. I'm sure you know the rules of procedure and work much better than I do. On Monday and Tuesday, we really discussed whether we could discuss the issue of the electricity crisis today if there were no other points on the agenda. Then it was, on Monday, I think, if I remember correctly, the chairman of the Reform Party Group said that maybe we don't remember, but on Wednesday it is possible to meet the Prime Minister and then get answers. We met and found out that the family of the Prime Minister's parents had no problem. We learned that the proposals of the Centre Party Group are not being discussed today. My question is whether and what opportunities Parliament has today to discuss this issue of the electricity crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U17	Thank you. After all, there are opportunities for members of the Riigikogu to hold this debate, to invite more officials. Here, the Riigikogu Board certainly does not put any hand or seal on it. I think it is important to discuss and the discussions are always good. Discussions should not be killed; in discussions the truth is always born. Peter Ernits, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U18	Good manager! What I am saying is that we have such a loose regime here, and this week's work programme in the big hall is practically nonexistent, five out of ten are opposition, the government coalition has been very weak. And now, coming up on Monday, I don't know what menu we're offered on Monday. I know what they say that the committees have not proposed anything serious. There was one pointless bill this week, the importance of which... that maybe some Dutch sailor will come to the Border Island and want to work on a non-existent bill that we discussed here. Please make every effort to make sure that next week is a bit of a working week in the big Chamber, so that we do not start discussing such empty Euro Directives here, but talk about things that are really important right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U19	Thank you. The Bureau will certainly meet, either physically or digitally, and then we will discuss next week's agenda the way it has always been. My information, preliminary information says there's at least an inquiry at the moment, or even two on Monday. How's it gonna turn out? I suppose, in cooperation with the permanent committees, this agenda will develop. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U20	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting and President of the Riigikogu, Mr Jüri Ratas. In fact, there is such a well-established methodology in labour law that the owner of the company or, let's say, gives orders to subordinates and they are executed, and if the employee does not want to comply with it, he must choose a new job for himself. The obvious thing is that we say that there is no regulation of the standards in relation to our Riigikogu and the government in a similar form. However, we do not get past the fact that the government is actually here to report on its activities so that the Riigikogu can know what the activities of this government are and whether everything is legitimate and whether the decisions that are taken are justified and justified. At the moment, we have experienced the behaviour of Kaja Kallas and the desire of the Riigikogu for quite a long time. Here last year was, and this year too, these issues are very topical, where, in fact, the contractor, figuratively speaking, ignores the employer's orders. I have a question, Mr Ratas, is there any way to apply similar sanctions here, if Kaja Kallas continues to ignore the demands of the Riigikogu and acts in principle as he sees fit, because our Estonian state is now moving in every step towards disaster?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U21	Thank you. I think that, in a democratic country, and Estonia is certainly a democratic rule of law, this form is dialogue. The dialogue can be held when both sides hold the dialogue. Now, I wanted to say that since I see that there are more procedural questions here, I just wanted to inform the members of the Riigikogu that I also have at least one very important message today after the procedural questions. So to get to this important message, just for information, to move faster, then we can cancel that message. I can't go to the message first. A procedural question, Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U22	Thank you. I am sorry that we are currently discussing the personal question of Kaja Kallas. I understand that you have received this information that Kaja Kallas must come before the Riigikogu. The energy crisis is a very important thing that we must definitely discuss, and it is with the Prime Minister. Here's my proposal, there's two important steps coming up, I think there's one at Stenbock's house today, and the other is somewhere in the Liberty Square. I believe that they also draw Kaja Kallas, our Prime Minister's attention to the fact that he must come to the Riigikogu. I have a proposal to go ahead and finish the procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U23	Thank you. Yeah, I've given that information to the Prime Minister. I also replied that the Prime Minister has responded correctly to this information that he is not coming. Now, with this proposal to move forward, I support this proposal, but at the same time procedural issues may always be linked to a technical issue, so let us look at the interest that follows here. Andres Metsoja, please, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U24	Thank you very much. I understand that we are already discussing this issue collectively on a large scale next week, so that it is still very substantive. Yesterday, indeed, the Question Time, where the Prime Minister said and opened a new chapter, in principle, towards business and in the energy crisis, sounded that entrepreneurs should better assess their risks. I, like now, think that maybe we have a minister like the Minister for Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, so maybe he should also listen to what the risks are and how they should be better assessed in this crisis. Why don't we ask him to come and open up some of that backside?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U25	Yeah, thanks! As I said, every member of the government has a chance to come, a political statement. We do not currently know in cooperation with the State Chancellery that at the moment, who will be in Question Time next Wednesday. I can't tell you if that minister is or isn't. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U26	Thank you, good Chairman! I have two procedural questions. The first is that we have repeatedly proposed that we have a Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister cannot find this political will, then we have our officials sitting there in Europe in negotiations, full of water, because we have not given them a mandate when talking about important matters. That proposal sounded like it, too, but it didn't. My question is, what day would the ambassadors have to make proposals for the next working week through the public, as is the case with our sitting? Because if we do them in writing, they may not get to the voters, that there is a proposal, for example, to discuss this green matter or to discuss the Prime Minister here. And my second question is that. I got to hear it, I'm not listening to Vikerraadio myself, but if the Rainbow Radio said it wasn't suitable, the Punk of Isamaa is a cool group, and it's willing to come up with all kinds of proposals as a triona. It's three times more powerful than a solo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U27	Thank you. These proposals on the agenda can be made by the members of the Riigikogu every day through their committees to which they belong, certainly also through political groups, through their ambassadors, how to provide for the agendas for next week, weeks, which will be discussed by the leading committees. This solo and trio, I'll leave it to you more, the musical insight will certainly be better for you than for me. But yes, it may be interesting to note in the verbatim that at least here in Northern Estonia we are talking about a frequency of 104.1 megahertz. A lot of people call Rain Radio, maybe some don't know that 104.1 megahertz is this. Reuben Kaalep, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U28	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I have a suggestion. In order to avoid the continued explosion of fire under the ashes in the form of procedural questions next week, the political statement of the Prime Minister could be included on the agenda presented to the Riigikogu on Monday, everything would be clear and in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U29	Thank you. Well, I looked at this procedural question for a moment on the end of Paul Puustusmaa sitting in front of you, who always legally helps, at least I've been very helped here. We know this, the Home and Working Procedures Act says that first there must be will and will can come from the government. That's the rule of law today. But, of course, a prayer we can convey, and I promised, that's what I'm gonna do. We could really now, Heljo Pikhof left, but he also came to my aid so that he could really move on. I'm going to accept a procedural request for a moment. I'm looking at Helmen Hunter here so that, in fact, when these procedural questions end, I would very much ask Heljo Pikhof to be in the Chamber at this point in time, I would have a small question for him, that would be an important, important procedural question for him. A procedural question, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U30	Thank you very much, Chairman. Indeed, as we know, the Riigikogu Board is meeting today to discuss next week's agenda. And I do have a request that you exercise your authority and authority. Our work and rules of procedure, however, set relatively narrow limits for members of the Riigikogu to participate in shaping the agenda. This can really be done through the committees, and I am talking here about the use of influence and authority, I am thinking precisely of the Committee on European Union Affairs. The Committee on European Union Affairs tomorrow, when it meets tomorrow, to make such a proposal to discuss a matter of national importance in this Chamber so that each political group can then make a green turn or, as we know in Estonian, a 'Objective 55' and that every member of the Riigikogu can also be asked at least one question. And actually, given the scale of this issue, the scope of this question, it could be Wednesday, where we could then discuss it calmly and at length and thoroughly. Because it is actually true today that in Brussels, where our feedback is expected, how Estonia intends to proceed, this has not come now. And it may well happen that another Europe simply decides on us and says how we will have to live for the next 20, 30, 40 or 50 years. This is as acute in itself as the current energy crisis. We will probably be reminded if we fail to do so today, perhaps in the coming years, or even decades, we will be reminded of it. I really have a sincere request, use your influence and authority, and actually please solve this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U31	Thank you. In order not to get into any trouble here in the future, I will certainly not use that influence. In your group, you will be able to tell your fellow group members who are on the European Union Affairs Committee to bring the OTRK form into this Chamber. As you know, ELAK brought it, but to discuss it again, it can always be done. There are no restrictions here, just as the political groups have once a year, right, in our Home and Working Procedures Act, the commission does not have such a thing. But to convey this signal, I am sure, Mr Hepner, I also agree to say here too: in any case, call on the lead committee to always bring important debates to this Chamber if there is a desire to do OTRKs. Priit Onion, please! You also have a procedural question, you have a second one then.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U32	Honourable Chairman! Yeah, the other one, but I'm not sure it's the last one. If I look at the momentum with which Parliament started at the beginning of the week and today it does not want to slow down in any way, although there are no points on the agenda, the requests that have been made to you that the work programme for next week should still include the daily tasks for us would be appropriate. You said, and that was probably the only possible answer, that you would not prohibit me from having various discussions with various members of the Riigikogu in different places. But I'm afraid as soon as this hearing ends because there is no sitting here today, what Mart Helme suggested at the beginning of the week will be done, the lights will be extinguished and it will be quite difficult to continue these discussions in this room, because this hall will be closed, so I will have to look for a cafe or some other place. My concern is that yesterday several journalists asked me about the health of the government. I'm not a member of the government, all right? And on the other hand, I'm not a doctor, so I don't know what their health is. I can't ask you that either, because I don't think you know that either. But I have a question. What kind of assessment do you think Parliament will look like if we do not actually work? I am afraid that next week I will have to start responding to the public about Parliament's health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U33	Thank you. I'm so sorry, I'm looking at Dr. Everaus here because I'm not a doctor either. But this appeal that next week every day we will have the points of discussion, of course, the Bureau will try to ensure this. But that is what we can always do in cooperation with the committees. It doesn't work every time, but let's try and do it. I'm not a member of the government either, just like you. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U34	Thank you, Mr Jüri Ratas, President of the Riigikogu. I'll let you know one important piece of information. It is undeniable that the country is now on the brink of disaster under Kaja Kallas, first of all. Secondly, the members of the Riigikogu have repeatedly tried to get Kaja Kallas here to account for his activities. One of the obstacles, Mr Jüri Ratas, is that you have not been able to bring Kaja Kallas here before the Riigikogu in your actions. And there have also been proposals here today that we could still take a short break so that you and Kaja Kallas could somehow get a deal, I don't know whether with an order or with knee marks or I don't know. But I'll let you know one thing. Some members of the Riigikogu are prepared to continue with the procedural questions started today until Monday, doing exactly the same protest action that is taking place today in front of the Stenbock House and next week on the Liberty Square. Are you ready to join us, continue procedural questions until Monday, or are you ready to take a break and try to get Kaja Kallas here somehow?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U35	Thank you. Well, what you said was that this prayer of mine was the voice of a shouter in the desert, well, that's true, isn't it, now? But let's hope that happens next week. Now this second thought, to continue with the procedural questions until Monday, am I ready? We must comply with the Home and Working Procedures Act. We can continue with this today until 1 p.m., then the hearing ends. At the same time, I say here in front of such a little spy, we can propose an extension of the sitting until 2 p.m. Once the hearing has been extended, we can do the procedure until 2 p.m. Then what happens is what our co-worker, Priit Onion, predicted will turn off the lights here, the power will go out. At the same time, we're allowed to be here in the dark, so we can basically go on with procedural questions, but without the cameras and the electricity. And theoretically, we can bounce this ball here until then Monday and come back to the white room on Monday at 3:00. That's basically how you take it. A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U36	Good manager! Yeah, well, that last story's a good start for me. Extraordinary times require extraordinary steps, and is it now a procedural avalanche, but I look in the hall and incredibly many colleagues sit here, although there is nothing we can do officially because there are no menus. Here sit colleagues of Esmaa and Mihkelson and Ligi and Repinski and Everaus and Signe Kivi said that there are, and Akkermann and all respected people sit here, Viidik-Admissible and so on. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Everyone wants to work. Not to mention the opposition: Heljo Pikhof, Igor Kravchenko, and everyone would. And we have multiple crises or cluster crises at the same time: the energy crisis, the corona crisis, the security crisis. The economic crisis is coming or has already begun. And all the colleagues would like to work, but the procedures won't allow it. And like you said, we could talk here in the dark. Maybe we should take this opportunity. Can't you use it? Extraordinary times require extraordinary steps. We're gonna split up right now, and our voters are gonna tell us what you're up there, eating caviar, and, I don't know, whatever, right? But the earth burns under its feet. Can't we take advantage of the potential I see right now, colleagues? It could be open. I repeat: emergency time requires emergency action. Or are we prisoners of procedures?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U37	Thank you. In the state of implementation of this sitting, we are not prisoners of the procedure at all. I, too, see that this potential and the will are now pretty much working hard in this Chamber. Since there is still a procedure for transferring drafts and enquiries, in this sense the Chair of the Riigikogu is still fully open at the moment if we can move forward from this procedural issue, so we have not closed the procedure. Right now, you can come forward with your drafts and your inquiries. Procedural question, Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U38	Dear Chairman, You said the right thing. Do you copy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U39	I can hear you very well. Very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U40	You said the right thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U41	I heard you say "very right."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U42	I'll continue. In order for the Prime Minister to come in contact with the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister must have the will. From this answer, I clearly conclude that the Prime Minister does not have this will to communicate with the Riigikogu, because as you are sure to communicate closely with the Prime Minister, you know whether or not he has this will. And you understand what this will mean if the Prime Minister really does not have the will to communicate with Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U43	Thank you. Yeah, what I said was, about this week's request for him to come here on Thursday, he said he couldn't come. What's next week's notice, I haven't talked to him at the moment. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U44	Did the Prime Minister explain why he couldn't come? Will he go to the store or go to the country or somewhere else, or what tasks he has so urgent that he will not be able to come to Parliament on a matter of general national importance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U45	As far as I know, there should be a meeting and an office of the Government of the Republic at about this hour on Thursdays. How is it today, I can't say for sure. Yes, a procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U46	Thank you. I'm concerned about what's going on right now. And it must be quite frankly said that, if we have also had a serious lack of governance alongside all these sectoral crises, we do not need to have a very thorough monitoring of the situation when assessing that this government is actually in political agony. This is also reflected in the inability of the government in the current crisis, firstly, clearly communicating solutions in the crisis, and secondly, the failure to make the necessary decisions that the people expect us to make, which the entrepreneurs expect from us, the people of Estonia expect. And our situation compared to other European countries is... In our region, the Baltic States have actually been hit hardest by this electricity price crisis, by the energy price crisis in our price area, both in absolute terms and by the relative wealth of people. It is in fact that we, today, on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, tens of Members are asking, asking, asking for what Parliament has chosen here, Parliament is discussing important issues, and the government cannot be an autonomous party to discuss these important issues from Parliament. And we're getting behind some kind of cut hook. It is not a question of this; we understand perfectly, in some of the sections that the government should formally do or comply with. This government does not want to.. I appreciate these four days, this government does not want to have a dialogue with Parliament in a crisis. And what does that mean, Parliament, in this situation? He does not want to have a dialogue with his people. The time for this government is over, this government must resign, this government must fall. And my question is that Mr President of the Riigikogu, Member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu who chaired the sitting, Hanno Pevkur said on Tuesday when we had a similar controversy that this situation would be discussed on the board. And the question was, what position did the Bureau take on Tuesday? And on these four days, on the basis of the requests made by the Members of Parliament, what do you think, Mr President of the Riigikogu, of the coming of the government or prime minister to this Parliament at today's session of the Riigikogu Board? The question is, if we ask that the board of the Estonian Parliament, the chairman of the Estonian Parliament, the Estonian Parliament is not a waiter in a cheap bar, and the Prime Minister is not a customer who is being placed on a menu and asked if you would like to come if you want us to order a taxi for you. This is not the situation. The representative of the people demands that the government should report in the prime minister's name. Mr President of the Riigikogu, please tell us what your approach is at the Riigikogu's Management Board meeting today, how the Riigikogu Board ensures the dignity of the parliament and the protection of its prerogatives, so that the Prime Minister should come here without stretching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U47	Thank you. This approach is the same as it was on Monday when I answered you, and that's next. Point one, this request from the Riigikogu to pass on to the Prime Minister. That's what I did, I'm gonna do today. I think it would make sense today, and also on Monday I thought that if there was this will, the political will to hold this debate, I think this debate is necessary. But once again, by law, this will, this proposal must come from a member of the government. But this proactive move, like I promised I'd pass on that information, I will. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U48	Good manager! I'm going to move on from this last question of mine. I can see now that our lines have grown in a row, that there is a colleague, Michael, who is the chairman of the Reform Party Group and who has come up with a very excellent idea. [[Voices from the floor.]] You're not? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But in any case, with a very interesting idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U49	I'm asking for silence in the hall! Mr. Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U50	Yeah, well, I'm just pointing out that my colleague Michal has arrived here next to all of us...... the heavy artillery Enn Frontland and Mr. Mihkelson and them. [[Voices in the hall.]] And it's like everyone wants to work and discuss. Why don't we let you use that chair right now? Extraordinary times require emergency measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U51	Thank you. I think it's nice that we have each other's support and that this positive message towards my fellow official Kristen Michal is very welcome that you will also let us know who is coming here. That's very good. Now I have to make a little bit of a clarification for the sake of the verbatim. At least to 15.30, Mart Võrguship is, as far as I know, the Chairman of the Reform Party Group. If there's been any change here, I don't have that information today, so in that sense, I reject it. But at 3:30, the board is meeting, I don't know what letters come from the political groups. We always go through all the letters quickly. Okay. There are no further procedural questions. Now I apologize for a moment, fellows, I have to turn to the procedure for a moment... [[A voice from the hall.]] Uh, we didn't, for information, just, we didn't, when Heljo Pikhof handed over the bill, he said it was transmitted electronically, it wasn't. I would have asked him to hand over this from this chair. But now the information came that it just arrived electronically. So, good colleagues, I have adopted a draft on behalf of the Riigikogu's management board, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau is seriously discussing the further processing of this draft. Good fellows! Messages. But just as it is, let's say, a tradition, yes, a procedural question, Priit Onion, please! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U52	Thank you. I have a procedure in the context you just said. If colleagues, good colleagues, had not had so many procedural questions today, how would this be resolved? You could not have informed the Social Democrats, and this bill would not have happened. He told you that it had been handed over before he came to this remote control, he didn't want to give it to the remote. What would these procedures be like if the trial was over by now? You had the knowledge that it had been transmitted, actually didn't give it during the hearing, we were told something. Can I come over on Monday to talk about any talk and say that somewhere probably along the channel [it's moving], maybe the electricity is worse, that the bill doesn't reach you so quickly, or what it is like? How can this procedure be delivered?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U53	Thank you. It is about that, if there is either an inquiry or a transfer of the bill and it is said that it has been made electronically, then usually the manager looks left to his fellow official, the competent staff of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu [half] and asks if it has been handed over. If there's an answer, yes or nod, then it's solved. At the moment, it was said that it has not reached our system. Now, in the maze of these important procedural issues, this came along, and now this thing is fine, this problem is broken, so I don't have to go to the weekend with this problem. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U54	Thank you. Dear Jüri Ratas, since the procedure has already gone down here, we are now the energy...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U55	Some have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U56	Huh?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U57	There have been, I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U58	Yeah, yeah. We are facing a problem now on the energy issue. Since the procedure was already asked how these drafts move here, I recall that the Estonian Conservative People's Party has issued a bill to solve the energy problems that have arisen and to bring this problem off the table. Perhaps the situation would return to normal. Now, I'd like to know because you're the one who's running these things, at what stage this EKRE bill is at, so people can get rid of this madhouse sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U59	Thank you. On Monday, the Bureau has appointed this commission, which is the Committee on Economic Affairs, and as Mr Ernits said, I will simply say for information, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is in the Chamber now that the Committee on Economic Affairs is going to process it. Okay. There's no more. Now, good colleagues, there are reports. I said we have a message today, I'm asking for attention. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the founding meeting of the Estonian National Interest Protection Support Group, convened by Urmas Reinsalu, will take place in this Chamber in the European Union climate package. We're looking forward to active participation. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U60	57 registered and no 44. I'm so sorry! The sitting is not closed. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal. I'd like a microphone for Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U61	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! With this terrible amount of work, you forgot the important procedure, I'm calling. You didn't do the call, so I'm asking you to cancel this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-13_U62	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. Yeah, we don't need a call sign in front of the presence check. So I think it's probably a first time, I don't remember you being wrong, but there's a little mistake in your procedural question right now, you don't need a call. [[Laughing.]] Dear colleagues, since today we have no agenda, the session is closed. Have a safe journey home and strength to work!
