ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Tuesday session of the eighth working week of the VII plenary session. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I am handing over the draft Act amending the VAT Act. The aim of the draft is to reduce VAT on gas, electricity and heat to 9% and thereby reduce the impact of the surge in prices of gas, electricity and heat on Estonian consumers and companies. Gigantic increases in the price of gas, electricity and heat have significantly increased the VAT receipts and thus the total revenue of the State. It is unfair to punish consumers and our business twice: first in terms of price increases and then in terms of a higher tax burden on gross domestic product. The energy price leap resulting from the green turn policy decisions and market distortions is the most serious problem for our business and consumers in the near future. In order to alleviate this problem, the Fatherland offers a reduction in VAT on gas, electricity and heat from 20% to 9% from 1 May of this year to 1 May of the following year. The costs of gas, electricity and heat are mostly compulsory costs, for which there are no alternatives. The cold winter has increased these compulsory costs further. Russia's war against Ukraine is also greatly accelerating the rise in energy prices. In the winter of 2023, it will be possible to re-examine the situation and decide whether or not to extend this excise duty reduction further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U3	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! In connection with the war in Europe and on the basis of § 154 (1) of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the Riigikogu decides to make the following proposals to the Government of the Republic and these proposals are initiated by the Fatherland Group. First, to develop and submit to the Riigikogu within one month of the entry into force of this Decision an action plan to supplement Estonia's defence plan in relation to the international situation, based on the need to speed up the implementation of the capabilities developments set out in the National Defence Development Plan and considering it important to achieve additional capability developments that were excluded from the National Defence Development Plan in relation to the financial framework. Secondly, within one month of the entry into force of this Decision, the Government of the Republic shall submit to the Riigikogu an Estonian defence plan and its financial volume and proposals to cover the financing needs with the aim of doubling national defence expenditure as a ratio to GDP. Thirdly, the Government of the Republic, in cooperation with other countries of the European Union, is seeking a distinction from the principle of the balance of the budget of the European Union, so that expenditure on national defence in Estonia can be treated outside the budget balance rule. Fourthly, the Government of the Republic is seeking, in cooperation with other countries of the European Union, to conclude a defence agreement that doubles the defence capabilities of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U5	I have adopted two drafts and the Bureau will, of course, decide further according to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, presence control, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U6	70 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U7	Our first item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, which was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. Riigikogu speech chair Riina Sikkuti, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U8	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I guess it's a good thing I don't come here to surprise the remote. The subject is familiar, I have talked about it before, and I fear I will continue to talk about it. The Social Democrats and Raimond Kaljulaid have proposed to amend the Income Tax Act and increase tax-free income to a minimum wage. When such a major tax-free change took place in 2018, tax-free income rose to EUR 500, the aim of this change and the idea of increasing income and coping of low-paid people on the one hand, but also reducing the need for social benefits for employees, lightening the burden on the social system as a whole and, on the other hand, motivating the adoption of work and labour market retention even in the case of low pay. Analyses show that lower tax rates increase the motivation of low-paid people to work, reduce wage poverty. Last August, the University of Tartu survey confirmed the impact of the minimum wage on Estonia's socio-economic development, that the increase in the minimum wage has had a positive impact on employment, reduced inequality and relative risk of poverty, but also reduced the gender pay gap. Since a large number of care workers, service workers and trade workers are women and their monthly incomes are affected by this minimum wage agreement, the increase in the minimum wage has also helped us reduce the pay gap. The increase in the minimum wage has also been found to have a positive impact on the reduction in the pay gap between ethnicity and age in lower wage groups. Fortunately, the minimum wage has increased strongly from EUR 500 to EUR 654 this year. The average wage, of course, will continue to grow rapidly, already reaching EUR 1600. An increase in average wages is also expected for the coming years. Of course, the consumer price forecast is not equally positive. In order to cover this year's costs, which were in 2018, when this EUR 500 tax-free minimum was agreed, more than EUR 110 is now needed. After all, the last few months have been particularly surprising: inflation was 12.2% in December, 11.3% in January, and now 12% in February. And while in January the price increase was really due to housing costs of almost 50% or more, electricity, heat and gas were more expensive, in February Statistics Estonia already pointed out that the price increase is more affected by the increase in food prices. And when we read in Statistics Estonia's press release the sentence that the most expensive potato has been compared to February last year, we realise that, in fact, this price increase concerns products and product categories, the avoidance or replacement of which is difficult for a very large number of people. And the question is, should we even do that? Whether we are talking about transport costs, housing costs or food costs, these price increases are precisely in those cost groups where we are not saying that there is a person's choice whether or not to make these costs. There is no doubt that such a two-digit increase in prices will affect the livelihood of a very large number of people. Yes, of course, we have subsistence schemes and other social protection instruments in place, but if a person is working in a low-paid position, then [that] in order to meet the goals agreed in 2018 in order to improve subsistence, motivate the adoption and work of work, I think that the tax system should be modernised. [We have to] keep the tax system somehow linked to changes in the general environment, and the increase in the minimum wage should actually be accompanied by an increase in the tax-free minimum. That is the proposal that has been made. The objective, which was in 2018, is still valid, we actually want to achieve these objectives. If the annual tax-free income were to rise to EUR 7848, the total cost would be 60 million, as was the last assessment by the Ministry of Finance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. That is, if it entered into force on 1 July. Yesterday's news of tax revenue in an inflationary environment was also that although it is difficult for people, all costs, including those inevitable and irreplaceable costs, it is not a negative development for the state budget, on the contrary. Rather, we see, as we can expect, that tax revenues will grow faster than projected and actually allow us to cover this type of change, as the Social Democrats and Raimond Kaljulaid have proposed. In an environment of current price increases and in the context of general anxiety, there are undoubtedly different instruments to create certainty. In fact, the value of people's work and the improvement of their livelihood is the right way for our tax system. This is a relatively simple change and, in the case of current tax revenues, a viable change. We are not saying that we are giving someone an inappropriate advantage or tax distinction, or that we are creating motivation for some kind of perverse behavior. In fact, it increases fairness in our tax system. This will improve the livelihood of those for whom [in particular] we would like to do so. A person makes a contribution, he works, he earns an income. We have agreed, as a society, that [some] positions we value less than some other positions. But the fact that [a person] has a job, especially a full-time job, is undoubtedly necessary for all of us. There is no doubt that there is no need to increase the risk of coping with the current inflationary environment for people who are doing the work that is necessary for us. I hope that you will support an increase in the tax-free minimum to the minimum wage. And I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U9	And with these questions, Aivar Sõerd begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'd like to ask you if you've thought these things through properly. You change one parameter in the formula currently in force, and then it is that EUR 654 is the minimum tax-free income, but it falls to zero within a certain income range. What's the income range, you don't have that in the explanatory memorandum. At present, this income range is 1200 euros and is reduced to zero at 2100 euros. What is the income range of your bill, during which the tax-free income of EUR 654 per month is reduced to zero? What's the income range? Please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U11	Thank you for your question. Indeed, this proposal concerns only an increase in the tax-free minimum and these so-called hump edges remain in place: 1200 and 2100. However, I fully agree that if we are talking about a more in-depth restructuring of the income tax system and we expect, for example, that the minimum wage will continue to grow with a 10% step in the current environment of price increases, really, if the increase in the minimum wage could compensate for the average price increase, then that means that this 1200 euros, the end of the hump from which the tax-free minimum is starting to decrease, will be very close. In fact, it would also be necessary to revise those EUR 1200 and EUR 2100, the criteria from which this change arises. Finally, we come to the question of whether such [system] 6,000 [euros per year] tax-free income is reasonable to sustain, or whether it would be more useful and easier to implement in another way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U12	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riina! It is clear that, in the current situation where prices are rising very quickly, this is a very necessary draft, which really will significantly improve the livelihood of low-paid people and reduce the risk of poverty. But how would you comment on what is the reason why today's government does not support this bill, although very many members of the government union have actually said in this Chamber that this is a good proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U14	Thank you. Yes, the eternal question: What does the conscience say and which button is pressed by the finger in the vote? I think it's kind of incomprehensible, too. This is nothing more than a change. This will increase the fairness of the tax system and help achieve the objectives that were once in the process of creating such an income tax exemption scheme. This does not in any way create upside-down motivations, but actually raises the motivation to work in low - paid jobs. For me, too, it is incomprehensible why this draft is not supported, especially given that the government's opinion on this particular draft under discussion was that yes, its objective can be supported and indeed the current system is not fair. So the government sees the need to change the current system and increase fairness, but this particular draft is not supported. But since we all have the freedom to vote according to our conscience, the ambassadors can say that this is necessary both in terms of justice and in order to guarantee people's livelihood.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U15	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U16	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear waitress, It is understandable that inflation and energy and all other prices are eating all the little bits that people who work on the minimum wage get and maybe are happy about so far. This winter came, and it's all been eaten, they're back in poverty, in real underemployment. This bill helps a little, but at the same time, this bill is just like reacting afterwards, okay? Wouldn't it be conceivable to take another step forward and actually automatically link the income tax-free minimum and minimum wage, so that if the minimum wage rises, in principle, it rises every year, then there will also be an increase in the income tax-free minimum? Then we shouldn't start this discussion every time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U17	Thank you. It's a really good suggestion. In the case of pensions, it was decided that there was no need for a political decision to make an extraordinary increase in pensions. We know that pensions must keep pace with the cost of living, which is why this indexing came. Now we actually understand in the same way that maybe it is not moral to tax the minimum wage. It's not gonna change, it's a so-called value-based assessment that we're making. This is valid this year, next year, in ten years' time. Indeed, in such a situation, it seems reasonable to link the minimum wage with the tax-free minimum in the longer term. The difficulty of coping with the minimum wage came out very nicely. But I also point out that servants of up to EUR 1200 will now be able to use this 500, but in the future, perhaps the 654 euro border. This also means that rescuers, kindergarten teachers, assistant teachers, all of them with a salary of less than EUR 1200, would benefit from a maximum increase in the tax-free minimum. In fact, it concerns a very wide range of people who do very necessary work in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U18	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U19	Good manager! Dear waitress, If I remember correctly, last December the same initiative failed, I think it was 29 votes. And I remember my colleague Jürgen Ligi there talking passionately, as usual, about how he despises. And my question to you is, since this is another experiment with something like this, how would you explain it? I remember what Jürgen said was that it wouldn't save the poorest of them. We could continue the discussion on whether to save and how.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U20	Thank you. Really, today is like a reenactment. Jürgen Ligi will also be able to hear from this remote unit and ask questions today. However, if we have a fifth or more than a fifth of people living in relative poverty and some percentages of absolute poverty, there is no such measure as we can say that the situation for all will be resolved immediately. Fortunately, the state has different instruments. If we are talking about people who do not work and live in absolute poverty, be it because they receive a national pension or because they receive unemployment benefits, then local authorities are entitled to income support to avoid this really complete poverty. But when we talk about people who have a job, who have a desire, a desire to work, skills, and tell them that, you know, you fill out the full job, and if you still can't do it, go to the queue for applying for income support, maybe it doesn't make sense. On the one hand, it places a burden on the social system, on the other hand, it is to some extent a matter of dignity. Although a person works, earns income, it is difficult for him to cope with such a salary. We are now talking about a two-digit rise in prices, and [what we are offering] is an important instrument to improve the livelihood of very large numbers of workers. We are saying that it will bring maximum benefits to all people earning up to 1200 euros, and there are actually very many of them in Estonia. However, this EUR 370 [add] per year is not a magic key if prices continue to rise at the same rate. For example, the price of district heating could be set on top of the ceiling and these risks of people's livelihood can be mitigated in other ways. This is one of the proposals that will make it possible to improve the situation of people who work and earn relatively low wages, while performing very important tasks in society. On top of that, I think we should raise our subsistence limit. And indeed, in the current climate of energy appreciation, if we have to meet the next winter, the risk of specific cold months' bills hitting people's pockets very hard should be mitigated. This should include setting some limit on the price of district heating, so that it does not fall on people alone. So this is one instrument, an important instrument that affects people who work in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U21	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U22	Thank you, good waitress. What do you think of the idea that was obsessed with the Prime Minister's party today or the red line? This was even claimed to be one reason why they did not form a government with the first momentum after the election. Two years later, they were willing to give up this red line to become a government, but this idea will certainly burn with a bright flame among those in favour of this worldview. What do you think it would make sense to throw away this hump and make 500 euros for everyone so that members of the Riigikogu can finally enjoy the tax-free minimum again? And not just members of the Riigikogu, many other people with good income, would certainly be happy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U23	Thank you. Two sides. On the one hand, inequality increases in itself, it's in income or property, it's going to happen anyway. And when we talk about the crisis situation, this growth or this absorption is even faster than usual. How to level out income inequality must be a clear policy of the state. The tax system is a very important instrument. I have said several times before that this 500 is currently under-proposal. It should be at least EUR 650 free of income tax for all. That would be a change to go on. To make a higher tax exemption for everyone? No, I'm not in favour of that idea. This does not allow income differences to be evened out. But each coin has two sides. When we talk about the fact that a hump of 6,000 paces may not be viable, it is difficult both to apply and to understand. That's what I'd be willing to give up right now. And then for everyone EUR 650 tax-free, of course, but he should be budget-neutral. So, for example, that I get a higher income tax exemption could cover a higher tax rate on the rest of my income, for example, from a part exceeding EUR 2000 or EUR 3000. So, in administrative terms as well as in terms of people's comprehension, I think it would be a simple tax system, which, as we have emphasised and recognised so far, is important. But the system must also be fair. So if a higher tax-free rate is set for everyone, it should be compensated for by a higher tax rate. Those in this hall receive all [good] incomes, and all of us should pay a higher [rate] income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U24	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U25	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, rapporteur, for presenting this very excellent draft and for answering the questions thoroughly. You have already introduced the topic of social workers, the increased burden on social workers and the failure of the person receiving the minimum wage goes to the local government to ask for support. I now have a good opportunity to congratulate all the social workers, the people who do this job, as well as the carers on the International Social Work Day, which is celebrated today in Estonia and around the world. My question concerns what this excellent draft would mean for the elderly, for those receiving a pension. We all know that it has been decided that from 1 January 2023 the average pension in Estonia is exempt from income tax. But what would that bill mean today? The decision that the average pension is tax-free, I consider it very right, could have entered into force on [this year] on 1 April, but even better than on 1 January. The elderly then had a very high tax burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U26	Thank you. Of course, good International Social Work Day for all and strength for social workers! This bill is not differentiated according to the way it earns income; pensioners would also receive this EUR 654 tax-free minimum. That would apply to all income servants. And these 1,200 and 2100 euros, these hump limits, they're the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U27	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U28	Thank you. I'm still gonna keep asking. Do you really have these things figured out? Right now, this hump is a problem, it makes no sense for us to argue about it here. In it, the tax-free income of EUR 500, which is now, is falling to zero in the income range of EUR 900. But now, in this very income range, EUR 900, you will have a reduction of EUR 654 to zero at an even faster pace and even more steeply. After all, this further reduces the incentive to earn additional income up to 1200 euros. Each additional euro earned will be subject to a normal income tax and each additional euro will reduce tax-free income at an even faster pace. Have you ever thought that you would aggravate the problems of this tax hump?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U29	Thank you. Indeed, the marginal tax rate, which is currently 31.3% between EUR 1200 and EUR 2100, is undoubtedly rising. There is no argument in this sense. Now, the question is, whose coping is now the most difficult in the face of price increases, for whom we would like to increase this fairness. But in a purely realistic way, it is easier to find support in this Chamber and also to find budget coverage simply to increase the tax-free minimum. I'd love to lose the hump, but I don't know, Aivar, if you'd support a higher tax rate for the servants of higher income. If such a solution were appropriate, we could immediately give up the hunchback and move towards progressive income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U30	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U31	Good manager! Good Riina! I will come back to it, well, right now it's like a reenactment, that unfortunately, in the case of quite a bill, impact analyses cannot be discussed in more detail. The real content of the tax proposal cannot be discussed. But I remember the last time you handed over such a bill, you said that it would reduce the risk of poverty and inequality and probably also quote the gender pay gap. I'd like to expand it a little bit. Why is the word "probably" for the gender pay gap, but is certain about inequality and the risk of poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U32	Thank you. If you look at the impact assessments of any tax change, the link with people's livelihoods is very clear. It is understood that if you increase the tax-free minimum or change some tax rate, that will have an impact on a person's monthly income. This relationship is much clearer and stronger. The gender pay gap is affected by so many aspects: segregation in education, segregation in the labour market, all these things. It is generally understood what causes the gender pay gap in Estonia, but if we now want to reduce it and know what the impact of the increase in the tax-free minimum is, for example, it is much more difficult to find this link. This link is weaker and has a smaller impact than, for example, the average monthly income of people. It's just the way she lives, and that's why I was more modest in what I said. In Estonia, too, the impact on overall livelihood has been analysed more than the gender pay gap. As regards the analysis of the impact on the gender pay gap, the impact of the minimum wage on it [has been analysed], but in my opinion it was actually the first time that such a link had been found. This was statistically significant and was also mentioned in the conclusions of the analysis. I do not consider this to be of any minor importance, which is why I mentioned it both in December and now in my speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U33	Good waitress, no more questions for you. Thank you! Let's move on to the presentation by the Committee on Monetary Affairs by Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was discussed by the Committee on Finance on 15 March and decided to propose that it be rejected at first reading by six votes. The main argument, of course, which led to a relatively large consensus, came from the budget. In a situation where we actually have three crises at a time, the elimination of taxes is in no way sustainable. This does not correspond to the actual situation of the budget. We have not lost the extra costs of COVID; we have rather uncontrolled refugee costs that are growing rapidly. And, of course, all political parties now have big ideas about how to increase the defence capability of the individual, whether they are meaningful. However, the fact is that there is a very high and high level of interest in increasing budget expenditure. Losing taxes here will certainly not help. The rapporteur mentioned the latest news that budget receipts have increased. This is one of the most unfortunate news that can be produced in the first place. Because, according to one month, saying that the state budget is in surplus is completely ridiculous. This is ridiculous! Especially in a situation where forecasts are corrected, where the pressures of war and energy or the energy revolution or the energy crisis, the pressure of the price crisis, how to call it, the effects are still unattainable. The projections will definitely be revised. January is not the time to decide on the actual state of the budget in one year. It's cynical that such news ever came. And we have very difficult budgetary problems. It also relates to the fact that our budgetary problems are chronic. Yesterday's news, which the waitress was fond of, did not concern the central government. The receipts are higher than expected, but the central government is currently down, just as it is entirely expected. This minus was actually written in precisely with the election promise that we are discussing here. This strange income tax system was extremely expensive, scratched from every corner. He certainly has not been sustainable since the beginning in the sense that we can index 500 euros thrown roundly into the air all the time and increase budget expenditure at the same time. This minus occurred at the same time that this system was introduced. The budget situation is structurally negative, and the budget situation will certainly suffer, as has already been said, with decisions in the short term. [I mean] the need for money. It is, in itself, bizarre here, the repeated argument that we have some sort of state-paid people who can then be paid more wages. Well, I'm sorry, these people get their pay basically from income tax, public taxes. And this is certainly not a method of making wage policies in the public sector, that we exempt wages from income tax, that it looks bigger or that it is bigger. No, collected taxes must also be paid with a dignified salary and it should be an honest wage policy, not such teeth around the corner and somehow reverse treatment. So what was mostly the debate about? First of all, however, there is no substantive justification for this repeated argument that the minimum wage must be exempt from income tax. This has nothing to do with public finances. The minimum wage is actually agreed by the social partners: entrepreneurs, trade unions. And the minimum wage usually rises faster than the average wage. It's been a long-term trend. This is a situation in which the state has to assess its costs. Whether it is some kind of reform or some kind of crisis, no matter how much money is needed. Or if there is such a situation where a country does not have control over its own finances and cannot react automatically in a fiscal policy that it automatically indexes some of the results of the social partners' negotiations all the time. No, this is not how budgets can be drawn up. In this way, social workers cannot be paid wages, so they cannot be paid to teachers. This has been said before, but it is still said that a part of people's income tax must be completely exempt. Yes, income tax has a lot of trouble, it is the most restraining tax on the economy. However, it is ensured that it is less restrained by a low tax rate and a wide tax base. But if we create a situation where some people do not have to pay income tax, but they still have the right to vote, then we are certainly not actually sustainable with regard to the state or democracy either. Here, there is some kind of different view of the tax system, which gives rise to the expectation that someone else would pay the taxes and that the voter himself would not. In the case of pensions, the situation is slightly different, although we have exempted the average pension from income tax here. First of all, this order of magnitude is quite close, but in the case of pensioners, the ability of a person to determine his own income is very small. In this sense, this parallel is not quite appropriate. And what else [over] was debated? Of course, the same [over] thing that arose here at the outset of the presentation that this tax-free minimum must be. Yeah, you can throw the members of the Riigikogu on the nose here, right, so they shouldn't have a tax-free minimum. Well, there's a difference of opinion. And I would draw the attention of those who are pushing this pedal to the fact that we are all proud recipients of the energy dose here. Is it very proud to get several dozen euros every month for having the opportunity to consume more electricity or gas, that we have more expensive heating systems thanks to incomes above average? Let's not go there alone with that argument. Tax policy must, in itself, be seen in conjunction with subsidies. It is, in my opinion, a common shame in this hall that hundreds of millions of energy doses will be paid in a short period of time to those of whom most do not need it and more to those with higher revenues. That's the situation, actually. Let's admit we're getting an unfair energy dose. If there is now a great deal of inflation and this tax-free minimum, then yes, it can be said that if we want to do universal indexation, then this tax-free minimum should be universal. When we say that everyone needs to be relieved according to inflation, there is a uniform tax-free minimum, a share of revenue that is free of national burdens, a more logical policy than the payment of an energy dose to everyone. The payment of energy consumption is certainly worse than a non-tax minimum policy. So these ideological differences, of course, sounded in that committee. I stress more over the arguments against the six votes against this bill. But, of course, all the same arguments that Riina Sikkut put forward here sounded already several times in the Commission. But the result is that, for purely budgetary reasons, we cannot take such a step now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U35	And questions will begin with Lauri West Forest. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I agree with that there are structural problems with the budget. Somehow I don't see a coalition working on them. And I also agree that a decent salary should be paid. But [as far as] public employees, such as policemen, rescuers, teachers, who are really getting exceptionally low wages and whose salary rise was well below inflation and general wage growth this year, this raise was decided by the coalition and the esteemed waitress himself. And now that we have proposed to support these people, there will only be evil words about this proposal. But this proposal, in principle, should help people. We have nearly 300,000 people at risk of poverty, which should help them cope. I am interested that if you do not want to support it, do you have any other proposal, an alternative to helping these people in this price increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U37	Thank you. I'm gonna clean up your mind a little bit. As has already been said, the same public earners you mentioned will receive their wages from national taxes and, if they lose taxes, will not be able to raise their wages. That's what you're offering right now. It's a bad recipe. The remuneration policy must be separate. Why aren't we capable of sudden wage increases? Look, Social Democrats, your history. Since you changed the coalition, the budget has been structurally negative by several percent. There has always been a gap between revenue and expenditure, and as a result we were very badly prepared for the COVID crisis, then for the fuel price crisis and also for the current security crisis. If you just say why we're not raising our wages, the answer is in the previous two governments. The budget situation got out of hand at the time. If you really haven't read the statistics and it's funny to you, then I suggest you review when the structural minus began to develop. It began to develop in 2017 and [divide] it kept rumbled. There's a problem. This has been a problem for every next budget. I admit that previous governments tried to get out of it too, but they couldn't make it. And to say now that we're losing taxes, then there's a problem solved by.. it's cynical. No, I'm sorry, you can't get that way. We are the first to be in favour of tax reductions and income tax as such critics. And you and I defended the tax-free minimum in the coalition negotiations in 2015 as the only three political parties. But then it was said that there was no interest, that it was a cost interest. Yes, budget levies are one set.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U38	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U39	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Indeed, as you said: that the minimum wage is tax-free, it has nothing to do with public finances. Right, it's a value-based decision. We do not solve any mathematics problem here; we decide what would be a reasonable way to ensure that society survives by using instruments. You indicated that budget problems were chronic. I have to say that people's livelihoods are also chronic. And I totally agree that the budget is structurally negative. But in order to resolve this structural concern, the solution is not to exfoliate small incomes more from servants, but to ensure that people with assets and incomes should start to contribute more. Do you see any other way of solving the structural budgetary problem than that we actually have to collect more tax from those who have the strength to pay it more?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U40	Thank you. If you want to promote or germinate the dispute that we have here in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I am a representative of the Commission, then a sustainable, competitive tax system will contribute to structural balance. This means a broad tax base and low rates. High tax rates do not contribute to this because they reduce the attractiveness of the business environment. And that is why, unfortunately, I cannot support this thinking of raising income tax higher, so the budgetary problems will be solved. No, the investment environment is one through which the structural situation can be improved. I'm sure you're familiar with the research that the Development Monitoring Centre is doing. One of the latest was the analysis of the sustainability of the tax system. Already the task of erecting, right, the sustainability of the tax system is what is the answer to you. It's a matter of whether everyone likes all the recipes there in the same way, but basically it's not like we're digging the tax base with our value-based sugestion, that paying the tax is somehow unworthy. I say I'm not undignified. I think that the right to vote also creates a tax liability, and it is the tax base that keeps this country going. I think we all need to reconsider a little bit about the idea that it is the country that guarantees people's livelihoods, too, which is hidden in your question. That's exactly what we actually fought to free ourselves from 30 years ago. No, we guarantee the state's livelihood and he solves our common problems. This certainly includes the fight against poverty. But this poverty is weakly affected by this bill, because it does not really concern those weakest who either do not pay income tax at all or already pay its maximum minimum. The issue of poverty is much more important than the issue of equality. You automatically think that income inequality is somehow unfair. I'm sure it isn't. It is unfair when it is somehow caused by unequal assumptions created by society, which somehow failed to do anything. No, public finances are to create equal conditions, not to guarantee equal results in incomes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U41	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You are talking about the importance of a broad base and accusing the initiators of examining the tax base, as you said. At the same time, I recall that, before the elections, your party wanted to give a very large gift to the wealthiest and most lucrative servants in order to establish the same tax-free minimum for everyone. How is it that if we want a completely moderate increase in the tax-free minimum, which is aimed specifically at people earning lower incomes, it is bad and bad and irresponsible, but giving a gift to those earners who do not really need this benefit is a very responsible and sensible monetary policy? I think there is a slight contradiction in your position, I have to admit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U43	Thank you. There is, in fact, no contradiction. I am, of course, the rapporteur for the Commission here, and I must now reflect this in some way through the Commission's discussions. This 500 [euro] after the income tax-free minimum jump, what year was it in, was it 2018? It wasn't sustainable. It was too steep and there to draw up all the sources of cover that were... In principle, weaker citizens were taken away: the additional income tax-free minimum for pensioners was taken away, the allowance for low-wage earners was taken away and excise duties were raised. It was all a huge effort in itself, but in the end, it carved a big minus into the budget, no matter what. We would have preferred, or this part of the Committee on Monetary Affairs must be worded in this way, which I also represent under normal circumstances, would have preferred a smooth increase in the tax-free minimum, but always the avoidance of tax exemptions. One of the major purchasers of such a tax base is tax exemptions. They are also particularly regressive. It means that whoever has a higher return, it absorbs. There have been, like, a lot of very strange initiatives here, such as tax exemptions for fuel and food. As long as things are cheap. But when you start to see how it works socially and how it works on the basis of social tax, it's a pretty ugly picture. Those who have the money will get the benefit, but the budget will run out of money. No, of course it's a whole view. A simple, as uniform a tax system as possible is sustainable and competitive. But such tricks with a tax-free minimum simply to shout out 500 [or 1000 be it the tax-free minimum or the defence costs of a billion] such cries will ultimately pay back. They don't guarantee sensible decisions. Round numbers in party slogans do not have public finances or national defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U44	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U45	Thank you, honourable Commission waitress. First of all, thank you so much for refreshing our memory here. We'll also find out what's happened in the meantime and who's responsible for what. But I would like to ask if the people with the lowest pay will have to pay for the crisis costs that have been discussed here. What good is it to Estonian society?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U46	Thank you. History helped bring your party leader into play here. And I still have to describe public finances in time. The strength was the desire to talk about January's tax receipts, which is why it was inevitably necessary to look at the longer view. It's a very strange conclusion if someone thinks that the low-wagers are keeping the country up and covering the costs of the crisis. That's weird! In fact, people's tax contributions vary by size. No, there's no view. All in all, the servants of the higher income are also the main public financiers. But you can't put the tax burden in one corner. This is one of the key issues for the competitiveness of the tax system, so that we do not narrow the tax base, especially in a situation where demography itself narrows it down.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U47	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It seems that you continue to think that it is possible to cut yourself out of crises. You've talked a lot about such a popular economic logic or tax logic here, but I can tell you that no right-wing economist has won the Nobel Prize in the last 20 years. I suggest you read about new developments in the world, get acquainted with them. It also seems to me that it seems normal to you that we are not dealing with the problem of having people in relative poverty, living very badly, and that they must somehow manage themselves. But I'd still like to ask. You didn't answer my question. This proposal here, this bill, would solve the problem of price increases and people impoverishment. If you do not support it, how do you intend to deal with this issue with the Government Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U49	Thank you. What it seems to you, you can talk at your Komsomol meetings. I haven't said a word of cutting around here. I can describe the fundamental differences in crises to you, however, a young politician. When it comes to overheating and the financial crisis, cutting is the only way out, because budgets simply cannot stand it. The economy is full of air and heat to be released. In this sense, managing the crisis during the recession was the only possible, very quick and very effective way. It's a different situation with the COVID. In the case of COVID, economic closure has been a matter not of economic health, but of human health. And to survive this, really borrowing, leverage, central bank intervention was a very adequate response. Quite the opposite method. Now that we are talking about the security crisis, all these [crisis] scars leave in public finances, it must be said that war taxes are being imposed during war, not that taxes are now being used. We pay ourselves to be wealthy. This is where society as a whole must accept that inflation weighs on us all, but submit to Putin's blackmail, that I will not give you gas, okay, be obedient, we must not. We still need to show that the state is smarter than the emotion [directs] and help those who are in real difficulties. But we must not instill in ourselves that we are all in difficulty at the same time and that we must somehow guarantee this prosperity to ourselves nationally. The country is now having very high budgetary responsibilities during these three crises, and I do not know how the government coalition will finally manage to get out of it. In itself, the additional budget is quite likely. Perhaps national defence procurement is not so rapid that they need to be carried out with an additional budget. They won't start so fast that this extra money can go fast now. National defence procurement is always long orders, but the medical situation is a reality for this reason. And, of course, as a result of inflation, the country also has new obligations. If we had done as I have tried to explain to you that in good times we would have set aside money, Mr Western Forest, we would not have such problems. Right now, in good times, the reserves were burned, and now they're broke. The extra budget, yes, must be made by borrowing. And we have to borrow all the time to pay the medical and defense costs. All the time! But the solution is not that we lose taxes, then we are wealthier. At the moment, we do not have a reserve in the budget, unfortunately there is a minus. The structural minus means that we are not financially in a security situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U50	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U51	Thank you. I think that the focus should also be on the change that is under discussion today. We are not talking in any way about exempting low-paid people from paying taxes. All these VAT, excise duties, social taxes, all of which are paid in exactly the same way. And the same is true of the fact that the tax distinction is won by the wealthier. Well, that is entirely appropriate, but the exception for books, for example, in the form of a lower rate of VAT, does not concern the subject currently under discussion. And indeed, we have three crises at once: the corona, energy and security crisis. But in all these crises, people need to cope, be satisfied, trust the government. I find it very difficult to cope with any of these three crises, when most people are struggling with their daily food costs and housing costs, dissatisfied, seeing that they cannot get help in difficult circumstances. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How can we cope with three crises if low-paid people fail to cope with their daily costs, and are dissatisfied?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U52	Thank you. In my opinion, there has been some sobering in society. This model of society that Putin is trying to restore by eliminating this major geopolitical disaster, the model in which the party, the government and personally the comrade ensured the well-being of the people, rather it has lost its credibility. Let's not promote it here. The country is currently facing growing difficulties in coping with medical problems, refugees and defence costs. And that, in my opinion, is something that citizens understand relatively well. Now, if you could just clean up a little bit, Putin would be happy to agree. Looks like it's an artificial construction, maybe, but I reject that opinion. After all, Putin managed to create price panic in Europe, widespread price panic with exactly the same timing as he began to surround Ukraine. At exactly the same time, last spring, when he began to surround Ukraine again, he started turning the gas screens. And the price of gas was what really caused this price increase. After all, the last players on the market were gas stations. From this, Estonian society became hysterical and began to instil itself that everyone is now poor. And that hall clapping on that thing. That's not true! Our average inflation rate last year was actually 4.6%, our wage increase was, I don't know, 8.7% or what exactly the decimal place ended up being. In any case, real wages increased. Real wages were projected to increase this year during this panic. Inflation was projected at 6.8% and wage growth again at 8.8%. In any case, the real wage was on the rise, but people were heating up, or parties were getting people's minds to think they couldn't do it anymore. This is crisis management in two words. We will lead the crisis, we will instill helplessness for you, and then we will come to the aid of money that we do not really have set aside. In that sense, it has been very cynical. We have had almost unprecedented prosperity growth for ten years in a row. Real wages have grown all the time, not as fast as they grew during this stagnation. Okay, the new government came up saying we're in a state of stagnation. At the time, there was no inflation, but the wage increase was still 7%. Today, inflation has reduced this wage increase, but we can nevertheless say that real wages are increasing every year. There is no point in instilling poverty. Savings in the fight against crises must now be introduced. And that's a pretty small thing you're offering right now. This matter actually needs to be corrected by wages, not by going into the tax system, which you were eager to defend here. It is not that it is the negotiations with the social partners that determine the tax rates. Unfortunately, this is not the way to rebuild public finances. We have emergency needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U53	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U54	I have to admit, of course, it's incredible that you accuse the initiators of the bill of populism and talk about stupid slogans and stupid numbers on these slogans. I am forced to remind you that 15 years have come from the fact that your party, and you were certainly a very influential person there at the time, promised that we would be among the richest five countries in Europe. So how are you doing with this goal? And before you did something to my good colleague Lauri of the West Forest about Komsomol. I'm sorry, but the slogan I'm talking about right now, in this 15 years, you worked out a slogan to get to the top of the five richest countries, with someone who was the Prime Minister at the time, and right now, MEP, who knows these Komsomol things much better than my good colleague Lauri Läänemets. To be honest, I think it would be better if you stayed within the framework of your committee's report and perhaps did not share general political assessments here in front of the Riigikogu. They're about 20 years behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U55	Uh, well, I'll take it from here. There has never been a debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in itself, on the pace at which we should reach the five most prosperous. And I don't know any of the members of the Monetary Commission who would ever wave that slogan. I certainly am not. I can simply say to you that this has also been beyond our expectations, how quickly Estonia has actually risen in this wealth chart. And even if we look at statistical numbers in the Commission, we have left the whole socialist camp behind, which was once the land of our dreams. We have left much of southern Europe behind. We need to look at the latest figures as to whether Spain is more prosperous than we are in terms of income. According to some data, there isn't any more. Portugal is far behind, Greece is far behind, and there are very strong links to public finances. We have not contributed to ensuring prosperity, borrowing and giving money to people. We have kept the country's decisions relatively reasonable and, for a long time, the initiators of this draft have also been reasonable politically. It has created an environment in which the state is considering its decisions. But, yes, too global, I wouldn't want to bring this debate. You have dragged me into spheres with your questions, which were not specifically discussed on 15 March. But if it is connected to public finances, yes, Estonia has proved that it can also be used without laziness in public finances. This [latitude] means that the path of less resistance is to go by borrowing and reducing the quality of spending decisions [to] increase prosperity quickly. Glory to all of us who have contributed to this [prohibition]. You could say that once.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U56	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U57	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear waitress, I can't believe everything you've been able to tell us about here! You have already been thanked for your history lesson, I think you should also say thank you for your lecture on fiscal policy. You're gonna bring both Komsomol and Putin. But on the main subject, you don't really want to answer. You accuse us of instilling poverty in people, although we know very well that poverty in Estonia has been extremely high and worrying for decades. You are talking about the fact that we have to care about the country, that our goal is to manage the country. But our people are our country, and it should be important for every person to survive. Isn't that right? I still hope that you will also answer this question, which has already been asked repeatedly by several colleagues. What are your proposals for helping those who receive the minimum wage and yet a large proportion of this minimum will give the state tax? What are your mechanisms for helping people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U58	Thank you. I generally respect you that you are not offended, but I warn you, if you start to blame me for history, your history began last night, given your political experience. You may not perceive the length and diversity of the entire debate room where we are and where you have actually dragged me with your questions. The previous questioner claimed that I have accused populism and that everything is incredible and that you are not all talking about here. And then those new keywords that I haven't used at all. You're always expanding this sphere. I will naturally debate, but I must somehow stick to the framework of this committee's report. I can talk about the arguments that the walls of the Committee on Monetary Affairs have recorded on the same topics when you drag me there, but don't give me sentences and thoughts, including the word 'populism' that I have not expressed. No, public finances are a matter of responsibility. And in times of crisis, you see it especially. If governments had had the courage to recognise earlier that the economy was doing very well, then we would have been better prepared for this crisis and we would have had to take money from reserves both for the COVID crisis and for the defence crisis. Now we have to be more careful about this. And, of course, the abolition of taxes is an issue that all of these problems inevitably open up, it is a major financial problem. Government agreements can be presented to you here, even by the mouth of the Committee on Monetary Affairs when they are done. But what happens to these crises this financial year and the next financial year, which requires new decisions that have not been taken today, requires new knowledge of developments, new macro indicators and an assessment of the operational needs of the country. Certainly the additional budget that we are talking about now will not solve the problems of the whole country. This is not directly related to the macroeconomic situation, but it is certainly linked to the costs of the crisis. Then we'll talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U59	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U60	Thank you. Honourable Commission waitress. Raimond Kaljulaid has already pointed out that Lauri Läänemets has belonged to the Komsomol. But he couldn't even be a October child if he was talking about history. But today, it's the Homedaughters, the Defence League, and so on. Lauri belongs there. But I have not received an answer to this question: if we want to solve the problem of people living in relative poverty today, who are living in underemployment, what are your solutions for improving the livelihood of low-paid people? You've been talking about austerity, but what are you gonna do when you have nothing to spare when there's no money? What, then, are the proposals to improve the situation of those in relative poverty who receive low wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U61	Thank you. I wasn't in the Komsomol either, I have to admit, but when I see this red mark in my colleague's chest, I just have to... [[Someone's commenting on the floor.]] Then I'll just have some sort of imagological connection when it comes to the view that the state guarantees people's livelihood. This is a communist ideology or a communist ideology for me. However, the starting point is that the state ensures that the weaker citizens [are] able to cope, but above all citizens guarantee the state's livelihood because they are the taxpayers [and] the resource is taken from there at all. This left turn, which the Soviets have been trying to do here, has, in my opinion, also had a very bad effect on Riina Sikkut. He was pretty much argumented, but right now, I have to admit, he's under some kind of comrade terror all the time and he's got to put his words and his thoughts to the party, not his very smart head. So, what are we planning? I think that, of course, if we are going to continue or build some kind of social policy support mechanisms now, what makes sense from the current mechanisms is what is not bureaucracy-free. That is, what is really directed to people's needs. Can he be so wide that we have some 800,000 people who are subsidised on energy consumption? I don't think it's sustainable. But, yes, above all, it must be needs-based. Especially in circumstances where there are three crises, we cannot pretend that we are all in the same kind of crisis. There isn't, and then you have to be well-differentiated. I say once again that you drag me into this debate and add new aspects to be answered by going through the history of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But in general, no one in the Commission is opposed to raising the tax-free minimum. Well, that's basically good. We think it's supposed to be. Only when and in what form, this is the point of dispute. Now the timing's really bad. Our finances are ominous.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U62	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U63	Thank you. Honourable waitress! It has been a very interesting discussion and a tax-political history lecture. Interestingly, I noticed that there has even been a convergence of views between you and the waitress before you. I've never heard of any sorcerers wanting to lose a tax hump before. But I have a question for you as a Commission waitress. Did the Commission only deal with the draft that we have on this table, or was tax policy more broadly treated in the same way? And if so, what results or perceptions were reached in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U64	Thank you. In general, I've told you almost everything, because all the time, it's been provoked. I have had to go much wider than this meeting on 15 March. Well, he was a bit of a reenactment, where we marked out old arguments, but we forgave each other for differences of opinion, which are fixed in many protocols and verbatim. I personally, as a mere mortal member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, have had amazing coincidences with Riina Sikkut, but I must say that, after the party's left turn, I do not recognize Riina anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U65	The President shall be empowered to correct the rapporteur in relation to the time of the Commission's [session], which he noted] at the very beginning and now. The Commission meeting took place on 7 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U66	Sorry, yes, the memory cheated!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U67	It's March 15th, today. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U68	Thank you. Dear waitress, If you promise me that I have an opinion of some kind, even though your attitude is such that no one should even have an opinion other than you, then it seems to me that the liberal democratic outlook also involves accepting the multiplicity of opinions. And it certainly includes not taking a patronizing attitude toward one another, not telling people how to think. It also does not allow itself to go to the Riigikogu Chair and to draw inappropriate parallels up to today's aggressor Vladimir Putin. That too, you were able to use in demagoguery and tagging. I'm asking you not to do this to each other. But my question is about the new Nordic. Your good fighting partner, Taavi Rõivas, promised more equal opportunities and a new Nordic country in 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U69	Time, Mr. Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U70	They are among the happiest countries in the world, but they have done the same things in all these tax policies that we are talking about here. How is it that there's been a good run and you're telling us you're going to disappear?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U71	Thank you. I will try not to repeat the compliment I have made that during the [managed] social democracies of Indrek Saare, Riina Sikkut was my very good thinker, often more likeable than my own partymates on the committee, extremely rational. But the left turn is probably some kind of macho terror that's been applied to him. I can't get that good contact with him anymore. But I can't talk about it, I understand. However, for you: patronage, tagging, inappropriate demagoguery, these are all the labels you put on me. Don't say that, don't break the door. Actually, Putin's an elephant in this room. It is the most immediate factor in this inflation, apart from what [has] been caused by the crisis in COVID, the supply difficulties. He's the one who's amplified this thing. The problem of electricity prices has been the main source of inflation, but inflation has been the main argument for your draft. This is because the pipes and storage facilities were left empty since last spring, while the soldiers were carried to the border. Due to the uncertainty of the [emerged] hysteria markets, these energy prices have been raised. And there's no way we're gonna get over it. And in this situation, if [this talk] is somehow demagoguery, if you say so, I would like to recall something once again about the roots of social democracy. It is very regrettable if we lower the resilience of our society so much that we think that we are all weak together now and must no longer make wise or reasonable choices. It is the case that if there is a security crisis involving price increases, the solution is not that we are going to make unreasonable, financial decisions that are beyond our control. No one argued against the basic idea of this bill. The Commission argued against this tax-free minimum system, arguing against timing. And the government also gave its assessment on the basis of timing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U72	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. For the Socialists, Lauri Western Forest, please! I recall that only the representatives of the political groups will be able to speak during the negotiations. Please, eight more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This Socialist proposal will secure hundreds of thousands of Estonians against the upcoming price increases. I suggest you look at this as Estonia's security guarantees just as the livelihood and security of its people also determine the strength of the state. Our proposal is to completely exempt the minimum wage from income tax, starting from 1 July. So we leave up to 360 euros more money per year to the employee and the pensioner. We all see how high energy prices are, heat, gas, petrol, how high food prices are and how expensive services are. There must be no spectators on this issue. High inflation and price increases were a problem even before the start of Ukraine's large-scale war. The sanctions imposed on Russia and the transport of goods stopped due to the war affect the Estonian economy, businesses and people both indirectly and directly. Two predictions about a very unpleasant situation have now come out of Eesti Pank's analysts: recession and two-digit inflation. Without doing anything, this means increasing inequality and reducing the livelihood of Estonian families. The war is directly about food security. I am afraid that the doors to the granary of Russia and Ukraine will be locked in Europe for the summer ahead. Although grain is grown enough to feed our own people in Estonia, the open market still influences its price. Two thirds of the mineral fertilisers came from Russia so far. These and many other impacts will gradually reach food prices in the coming years. Nearly 300,000 people are at risk of poverty in Estonia, and this is an insanely large number of people, many of whom are elderly. Today, unfortunately, the entire pension is not exempt from income tax. Our proposal is to abolish the obligation to pay income tax on pensions. In view of the modest size of pensions, every euro saved is a very important contribution from the social democrats to hundreds of euros. Our proposal also provides support for companies for whom price increases and inflation lead to wage race pressures. The already high wage growth is only gaining momentum, which, in turn, reduces the ability of companies to invest or manage at all. However, if a person has more money each month, the need to ask the employer for [higher] wages is lower. I do not understand the view of the Reform Party and even the Centre Party not to support this proposal. However, I have not heard any such comprehensive solution to the increase in the cost of living, if that is the exemption from income tax on the minimum wage. [There are no ideas that would at least help pensioners and families with lower incomes. However, we had to listen to the rapporteur from the Committee on Monetary Affairs from the coalition, who told us yesterday about economic policy, which I do not know that any European country would practice today. [It was] a story about how to pay a decent salary in a situation where it was decided himself in this very hall six months ago that those who are rescuers, firefighters, policemen, teachers, doctors and nurses would not receive this dignified salary from the state. Somehow it goes against you. Similarly, there is no understanding of how these structural problems, which have been discussed here, and which have been addressed to all of the previous ones, will be addressed. I have seen no initiative to solve these structural problems, and I think that cutting or saving people, leaving people in trouble or poverty is not a solution that will somehow help our economy. Honourable reform parties have liked to quote and highlight different world organisations, I don't know, OECD or IMF and so on. I would remind you that, if you have not read it, in recent years they have made it very clear that the growth of inequality is holding back economic development. Very simple: the growth of inequality is holding back economic development. And yet they say, it's the old truth that most people cannot come out of poverty for nothing, that it requires some help and support. Hope that, honourable people, who, because of expensive prices, are going to fall into an even greater risk of poverty or complete poverty, you will somehow get cut out of there by yourself, it will not work. It just doesn't work. So, ladies and gentlemen, 360 euros a year is a lot of money. We're talking about half a month's income for a lot of people. It's a clear security guarantee in a fragile time. If a person is doing well, he is satisfied with the functioning of the state and society. I therefore ask you to support the Socialist proposal, to support our people, not to leave them alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U74	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, here the previous speaker described the global problems of the moment: war and the resulting rise in the price of raw materials and fuels, global inflation, economic cooling. But the solution proposed here is completely incomplete. From this point forward, as follows, when I am talking specifically about this draft. Indeed, the tax-free income reform announced in late autumn 2016 and entered into force in 2018 made the tax-free income rate dependent on the amount of the taxpayer's annual income and introduced a general regressive tax-free income that will gradually decrease as income increases. Let it be said here that the Reform Party was opposed to this system from the beginning, because it made the tax system difficult and unfair, because the so-called tax hump eats up a large part of the wage increase, particularly for those who receive the average salary. [It also concerns] the income of savers, teachers and other people on a lower than average salary, not to mention those on an average salary. The biggest drawbacks of this system are that the income range, i.e. the tax hump between 1200 and 2100 euros, which is now in force for the fifth year, has remained unchanged for many years. But look what the consumer price index has done in the meantime. To date, we have reached a situation where more and more people are moving to this income range with their revenues, where, at a income of EUR [more than] 1200, the tax-free rate of EUR 500 starts to fall sharply and reaches zero at EUR 2100. Now this solution, which we have on this table, is: [if set] a tax-free rate of EUR 654, [from] 1200 euros will start to decrease even more steeply and reach even more steeply to zero. And as the rapporteur who introduced the draft admitted, indeed, if the currently marginal or effective marginal tax rate in this income range or within the tax hump increases to 31%, it will increase even more with your solution. I didn't figure it out, it could have been the initiator of the bill. But if it rises to 40%, maybe it's possible, then what does that mean? This means that every euro earned in the income range of EUR 1200.2100, each euro earned is normally taxed at 20% of income tax, but every additional euro earned dramatically reduces the tax-free rate and thus increases the tax burden. And with your bill, this anomaly is even bigger, and the problem is actually even more acute. People who earn additional income or receive an additional salary in the range of 1200 to 2100 euros will lose. So this... Can I have an extra two minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U76	Three, eight minutes tops.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U77	So this solution is incomplete, without thinking it through. This does not address the shortcomings of this fifth year system. Here in the Riigikogu, political discussions have heard whether tax-free income should be changed for some target groups or whether it should be paid to different target groups for their tax hump or shifted to this income range. It has also sounded, there has been a choice of a solution where the tax hump formula is turned into a way that tax-free income does not reach zero. So there are different solutions, but none of them work. This shows the bankruptcy of this tax system. The only solution to this tax system, where the tax-free rate of income is made dependent on the amount of annual income, is to abolish the tax system. That's the solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U78	There are no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading and we need to vote it through. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you all that we are discussing the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and member of the Riigikogu, Raimond Kaljulaid. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 503 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U79	The commission's proposal was supported by 48 members, with 28 against. The proposal of the lead committee was supported and the draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U80	Our second item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Holidays and Celebrations Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Speaking chair, please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! With the draft under discussion, the Social Democrats want to amend the Holidays and Holidays Act by giving an extra holiday on the next working day for a weekly holiday or a public holiday. An extra holiday is not given for a public holiday, which is always on Sunday, so it is the first holiday of Easter and the first holiday of Pentecost. They shall not be compensated by the day off on the next working day. The public holidays, accompanied by a free day, are ten in Estonia, while the average in the European Union countries is 12. From neighbouring countries there are 13 moving holidays in Finland and 12 moving holidays in Latvia. Additional holidays for a public holiday on a weekend are given in, for example, Belgium, Bulgaria, Spain, Ireland and Luxembourg. In Malta, public holidays during the weekend are partially compensated. The number of paid days per year depends on our calendar for a specific year and less can be rested when a public holiday has fallen to the weekend. We have been especially blessed this year. In 2022, there are five festivals, on 1 January, 1 May, 20 August, Christmas Eve and the first Christmas Day, on either Saturday or Sunday. In 2023, four public holidays take place: 1 January - New Year's Day, 24 June - Midsummer Day, 20 August - Re-independence Day, and 24 December - Christmas Eve. The fact that our working people deserve more holidays has been mentioned in Estonian politics for years. In 2017, the proposal "Add a holiday if the national holiday or public holiday falls to the weekend" received 1065 signatures in four days and was processed as a collective address. With similar regulation, the draft was discussed in the Riigikogu in 2004. Previously, the idea of giving an extra holiday for the weekend has been expressed by representatives of the Centre Party, the EKRE and the Social Democrats. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We also have a European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, whose job is to make a scientific contribution to social, employment and work-related policy-making and to organise joint European Union surveys on working conditions and quality of life. They stress that people with a balance between work and private life have better health and spiritual well-being than others. The worker's work-life balance is therefore a blessing not only for himself but also for the employer and society at large. Although the work week of almost 40 hours is valid in half of the European Union countries and although we share the latter with other countries in our narrow ninety public holidays, the Estonian is the sovereign leader of the annual work hours. The analysis of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu reveals that the working hours of the annual period are most worked in the European Union in Estonia, Greece, Lithuania, Hungary and Poland, while the least worked is in France, Denmark, Sweden, Germany and Norway. The European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, mentioned above, also maintains a table comparing working time, the length of annual leave and the number of public holidays free of work. According to this, the Estonian working person worked an average of 1748 hours in 2018, while the Frenchman worked 1602 hours. The EU average is 1714 hours per year, while it is 1555 hours in Finland and 1699 hours in Latvia. The average number of hours worked would decrease, but it would still remain significantly higher than in our neighbouring countries. At a time when [other] Europe and we are increasingly talking about a four-day working week and a six-hour working day with which some employers have gone along in practice, the simplest thing must start. The extension of a few weekends poses no threat to our GDP; rather, the impact may be positive. I repeat: the various studies carried out in Europe on working and rest periods show that there is a link between shorter working hours and the productivity of the work and the satisfaction of the worker. One thing is that the actual number of holidays varies from one year to the next depending on the number of holidays falling on the weekend. Many countries in the European Union use their own specific arrangements in the second day off from work to compensate for these days. Not all of them. But there are 15 public holidays in Slovakia, for example. On several sides the simplest regulation is used: if a public holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it will be transferred to the following working day. However, there are other solutions, such as holidays or holidays added to the annual leave, and a paid holiday is given to the employee at the same time as a public holiday. There is also a so - called bridge system for the transfer of days in order to maintain the integrity of the week. So the Social Democrats are proposing to the Riigikogu to release the working person on Monday when the national holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday, or to find other suitable regulation to compensate for the holiday day. Certainly, it does nothing to harm a person's working and productivity if he gets more days a year to rest up, such as going to nature with the whole family. I call for support for the draft Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U82	Jaak Juske would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Good Heljo! As came out of the bill and speech, in other European countries there are usually more public holidays than we have here in Estonia. I really think that there could be a lot more public holidays in Estonia, too, and I suppose you agree with me. But I would ask you that the critics of the bill have claimed that this bill, if it were to become a law, would reduce the school days we already have in deficit. How do you respond to that criticism?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U84	In fact, if we look over the years, the number of holidays falling to the holidays has so far not depended in any way on the length of the school year. When we look at 2020 there were only two holidays in my memory that fell on the day of rest. In fact, most public holidays did not fall on a holiday. And I can also say that the school year has always started on 1 September and also ended as a rule at certain times each year, no matter how many holidays fall on working days and how many holidays. In fact, we also discussed this in the Commission, and there were such opinions that I share, that this regulation gives certainty to both schools and businesses: they know that there are exactly the same number of days available each year. It's a situation where they have to watch what holidays fall on weekends that don't fall on weekends. Now there is such a moving system, but with the regulation proposed by the Socialists, free days would be fixed and technically this would make planning much easier. I don't think that's gonna be a problem for schools. But thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U85	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U86	Thanks! Madame waitress! There is certainly an analysis that measures the economic impact, including the budgetary impact, if this draft is approved. What could be the economic impact or impact on the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U87	Thank you. It's a very pertinent question. I can tell you that we have already discussed this draft for the second time. The Social Democrats have submitted this draft to the Riigikogu proceedings. And last time we discussed this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there was Risto Kaarna, the chief analyst of the Fiscal Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and the same question arose. I'm going to read what the protocol says so I don't lie here or overdo it by thinking. Risto Kaarna said that it was important to think about different sectors. The economic impact is not so great for manufacturing and industrial companies, as there are different shifts and everything depends on demand, i.e. how many orders there are, not specifically how many holidays there are. Shops are also open on weekends and public holidays. On a free day, there may also be an incentive effect for certain behaviours, such as trips, and this will have a positive impact on the tourism sector. People use more entertainment services and go to restaurants. There is no economic impact, for example, on energy and communication services, as people use them on both working and holidays. In terms of consumption, more than half of the population has a fixed monthly wage, which is not directly dependent on the number of working days. They have no major economic impact. And maybe what he said about the economic impact. He pointed out that an average of 1748 hours was worked in Estonia in 2018, 44 hours earlier, while GDP grew by nearly 5%. There is therefore no direct link between GDP and hours worked. But there may be certain statistical peculiarities. The impact on the economy will certainly depend on the economic cycle. At a time of economic growth, production capacities have been used more and there is less chance of losing the day back. There are fewer employees and there are probably more extra charges to be paid. If the economy is in recession, the impact on economic growth will be smaller. Risto Kaarna also said that if you try to estimate the impact of holidays on GDP according to GDP statistics, you cannot see it directly. Each month does not have the same number of working days, both due to the length of the month and the holidays. And these differences do not appear directly from the quarterly estimates of GDP. He also brought a number of other calculations, but finally added that an accurate assessment would depend on the economic situation and the specific year. There are certainly positive aspects to the extra holidays. People need rest, but it is hard to measure [its effects] in money. He also said it would be useful to put an extra day off for the weekend. Many companies, for example, put their production to a halt for the weekend, so there will not even be an extra cost, for example, if the day of rest is in the middle of a week.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U88	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U89	Thank you. The question of economic impact has already been asked here. But I'd ask the other side. Those ten public holidays aren't just like that. That's when we celebrate the anniversary of the Republic, the Midsummer Day, Christmas. These are events of a certain symbolic value, and we assume that people are celebrating them, whether they make sprat sandwiches or make a fire. This day off is for a reason that we can think about the past, meet families, families, or collectives, and celebrate what we have been given this holiday for. Do you see in the same way that an extra holiday would actually be to celebrate the symbol that we have agreed and for which we have been given a public holiday?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U90	Thank you for your question. Yes, of course. It's not like we don't have public holidays or national holidays, it's still a symbol for us. Families and [at all] people also want to keep them together and maybe talk about the past during certain holidays, but perhaps to keep plans for the future. And it is very important that, when holidays fall on Saturday or Sunday, it would in any case be a free day on Monday to have several days off in a row. Today, many children and parents live in different cities, even different countries. And surely public holidays could be those days when people go to each other to spend time together. Yes, I think this is very, very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U91	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U92	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I do not have such a question, I simply have a comment on the previous debate when it was said what this economic impact is. I checked it out, there are six public holidays this year that fall on the weekend. Maybe if this law were in force today, this year would mean six extra holidays for workers, which would make about one week of work that people would lose out of their working hours. When there are 52 weeks a year, four of them rest, one month, [there will be] 48 weeks of work. So we are talking about the effect of 1/48 working time, or about 2%, would be lost under this bill. I didn't have a question. It was just here that they tried to analyse what this means for entrepreneurs, employers and employees, and I calculated it quickly here. 2% of the hours lost are the effects of this bill. But more than that, let's say one week's rest would come to people this calendar year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U93	Thank you for your comment and for your quick calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U94	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Good Heljo! I began to see that we had three months without a single national holiday: September, October, November. These are the kind of grey autumn months that actually need extra holidays. I think we should consider making the beginning of the school year, for example, a national holiday. And why not November 28th when Earth Day made a historic decision? Was there any mention in the Commission that there might be more national holidays? And if so, which ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U96	Thank you. I can safely say that those who supported the bill felt that it would be good if today's situation changed, and if public holidays or national holidays fell on the weekend, it would, in any case, be returned on Monday. But I think that also the days you were talking about, we should definitely speak here in the Riigikogu in the future so that they are also included in our calendar. Indeed, however, we have little public holidays and national holidays compared to the other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U97	No further questions. Thank you! The co-report is from Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U98	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna start right now, and I'm gonna do a little bit of work in this room, too. And I start with that, every year, on average, a national holiday on a Saturday or Sunday takes place on a 3.4 day. This is how I got it. If we consider that the national holiday is one and the public holidays are 11 or there are 12, and the probability that [some] will be on Saturday or Sunday, well, 2/7 [of the days] is just Saturdays and Sundays. So if you take the average of how much each year falls on a public holiday or a national holiday on Saturday or Sunday, it's 3.4. I think that this adjustment should be correct and really shows its effect. The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft at its meeting on 8 March. Heljo Pikhof also made a very thorough presentation there. Now for the topics that [woke] the discussion. Firstly, it was indeed the remark made by the chairman of the committee that this draft lacks an impact analysis. A good colleague, Raimond Kaljulaid, found that 2% has an effect. In fact, 2% is still a very big influence. If we still take the Estonian state as a whole and take 2% of the revenue out of the budget here, of course, there is no one link, but 2%, I think, in itself is not small. At the same time, indeed, there is a certain compensation mechanism there. Heljo Pikhof also stressed this on my note that if people are restless, their motivation to work and productivity will increase. There's an undisputed connection. However, my [question] was whether it was sufficient to compensate it for one additional day off. I do, however, have some doubts about that. But directly, of course, certain effects exist and certainly the person is more motivated when he is resting. The second issue arose from the impact on GDP. In fact, Heljo Pikhof stated at the meeting of the Commission that there was no direct link between GDP and hours worked. To that I would like to applaud, which I also did in the committee session. In fact, the added value is, as a rule, created when working, and there is certainly a link in that sense. How big or small this connection is, it is indeed very difficult to assess. It is certainly not [called] 2%, it is certainly significantly smaller, but there is still some link to GDP. It is very true that the comment made by Heljo Pikhof in this Chamber, as well as in the sitting of the Commission, is that this same cyclicality really affects the economy more. This, of course, will have a significant impact on the economy and our incomes more than some additional rest days. But there's definitely a connection. Oudekki Loone supported Heljo Pikhof's view that Estonians really work very hard and pointed out that the French work significantly less, but create more added value. This is where I remembered a line from the days of the Economic Commission. If we look at GDP, in fact, GDP also has a very significant impact on wage levels. Please give an example: if a bus driver in Estonia receives a salary of 1000 euros, he will receive 5 000 euros in Finland. But I do not dare to claim that the Estonian bus driver is less efficient or that he has less productivity. Absolutely not. But the same wage difference, if we get EUR 1000 and there is EUR 5000, of course, all of this does not go to GDP, then there will be a significantly larger difference in the contribution of one worker to GDP. So, in fact, the level of pay will certainly have a significant impact on this. Another factor, of course, is the level of technology, which is certainly not comparable. These are the reasons why the GDP per capita in France is incomprehensiblely much higher than in Estonia. Once again, it is the level of pay and certainly technological developments that affect it. There was also a discussion, and as a reply, I pointed out what about those who work on a combined working time basis. Is this unequal treatment for them? Heljo Pikhof mentioned that this is actually the case now. Indeed, it is. But then again, if we give more rest days, obviously this inequality is growing somewhat, right? Is it a lot or a little, it's like another question. The third block of topics mentioned touched schools. Here, too, there have been some statements. My argument at the committee session was that you still have to complete the same curriculum with more limited time, or in fact there are fewer school days during which you have to complete the entire curriculum. Heljo also replied at the Commission's meeting, as in this Chamber, that the school year still begins on 1 September and usually ends at a certain time each year, no matter how many holidays there are on working days and how many holidays. Yeah, it's been like that, but let's say that if we're now creating extra rest days, let's say, an average annual increase of 3.4 in school, according to my adjustment, obviously the load on the remaining days of study will increase somewhat. You still have to go through the study program. And now there are two options: whether the work is more intensive and the work volumes are somewhat higher on the days that are currently planned, or there is also a theoretical possibility that this might mean that the [year] length of the school might increase. There was a discussion about that, too. The government of the Republic, the surprise surprise, did not really shape its position on the draft. However, the positions of the three ministries on this bill do exist. The Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice have expressed their views. And, let's say, the Ministry of Justice was the one who, figuratively speaking, shaped his position on behalf of the government, although that is certainly not the position of the government. But they had reviewed the positions of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs and proposed to the Government of the Republic. Here's what they're proposing. Point one is this very fundamental question, to which the good colleague Riina also referred: is this day off on a public holiday to celebrate this holiday or is it more than that? Now, if you narrowly consider it to be a celebration of this festival, this is [that] the day off. It's like one claim that it doesn't really ban celebration. There's still a public holiday, and that day is free anyway. The question is, do we see more there? If ideology is that public holidays are free days to celebrate them, then as a matter of fact, there is no problem. The question, however, is whether it is still [representing] the expectation that it could be replaced by an additional day off. That is the question of this bill. This is definitely a discussion place. But the Ministry of Justice and, by the way, the Ministry of Social Affairs also pointed out that if the purpose is to celebrate the holidays, there is no [obstacle]. This one day is still free, when the holiday ends on Wednesday, you can still celebrate one day. When he gets on Sunday, you can actually celebrate two days. But now you want to add a third one. So it's a matter of discussion. That's a pretty exciting idea, which is actually the main goal. The national holiday, I suppose, is more of a celebration. And that's not a problem. But, of course, a person is disappointed that it's Sunday and there's a holiday that I'd like to get another day. I totally understand that. Secondly, the Ministry of Justice also referred once again to the aggregated working time calculation. But Heljo Pikhof, both in his presentation here and in the Commission, pointed out that there are indeed very many who are not affected by it, and that is not absolute either. Now, on education, the Ministry of Education and Research talked about the same thing I referred to. One of their views was that the additional days available in the academic year means completing the same curriculum with a more limited period of time in the planning of the academic year. Maybe the same thing I said before. This means an increase in the study load for students at a limited time. One of their arguments is that such an amendment requires a more substantive and longer analysis of whether it would, for example, require an extension of the academic year. They threw it up once, too. Moreover, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research have said about the impact analysis that perhaps one effect is indeed on GDP. I'm sure there's an effect. Is it enough not to support it, or is it not enough? But it certainly has a certain impact on employers, which means additional costs for them. So in this sense, it obviously requires some analysis. But to sum up once again the government's positions. They're so great. As I said, the Government of the Republic gave up its opinion. However, the final position of the Ministry of Justice was that the Government of the Republic is proposed not to support the draft. The position of the Ministry of Education and Research supports the idea of the draft, but does not support a specific draft. Reference is made to the problems that should be analysed. The position of the Ministry of Social Affairs is that it supports the objective of the draft and the proposal put forward, while it highlights a number of concerns that require special attention. Such a plurality of opinions exists on the government side this time. And maybe before we go to procedural decisions, I say that I, too, have actually expressed my opinion very many times, as Mr Juske suggested, that we rather do not have too much public holidays. It's 11 in total, like I said before. My greatest expectations and desires have always been the same September 1st when children go to school. It is such a sacred day that people should not be involved in their work that day, but be able to send their children to school. So, if you look further, I'd rather be in favour of creating a public holiday. But maybe when we agree to create more, we won't replace them. Option B is that we do not create more, but consider replacing it with your proposal. Here, as should this choice. You see, if we really want to create more holidays, and then those holidays that fall on weekends, [compensate] as extra holidays, maybe a little thing gets out of hand. So I think this is one of the options that should be discussed. But the procedural decisions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were very nice. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 15 March, the decision was consensual; secondly, to propose that the first reading should be stopped; this decision was also consensual; and thirdly, to appoint the chairman of the committee, Toomas Kivimägi, as the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This decision was also consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U99	Thank you. Now you can ask questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U100	Good manager! Dear waitress, If you look at Europe as a whole now, the Spanish model is considerably more public holidays and even Latvia-Lithuania. But I'm going to ask you this when the Reform Party will come up with new public holidays. But more than that, I'd like to know you were talking about celebrating, you were discussing that if you were celebrating, it would be justified. Would you define what "marking" is? What's the point of celebrating that it's serious, otherwise it's like something's gonna start tripping?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U101	Thank you, good questioner! As far as I know, the Reform Party does not intend to come up with a draft to supplement the list of public holidays. It is not my personal view that 1 September could and should be a public holiday. But at least, as far as I know, there's no such plan. Now, the second question concerning the celebration. It is really up to everyone. I think it starts with freedom: if there is no obligation, then every family is sufficiently aware of how to celebrate one or the other public holiday. And people's perceptions of what "announcement" means are absolutely different. In this sense, my personal opinion doesn't matter at all. However, the prerequisite for celebrating is, of course, that there are no other obligations. I guess that's the idea of the same bill. But I'm gonna say once again, coming back to it, there's a chance to celebrate, no matter how anyone interprets it. This public holiday day is free, whether it be June 23 or June 24. These days are free, and you can celebrate victory day or Midsummer day. It's like there's no problem. The idea behind the bill is that if the holiday comes on the weekend, you can have an extra day off, you can also celebrate after the celebration.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U102	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U103	Thank you. I don't have a question like that again, but a comment. I think that if we try to estimate this impact on GDP, of course, 2% of GDP will not fall behind. The initiators of the draft act have not proposed a similar reduction in people's salaries. This, of course, does not reduce the revenue of the state like this, perhaps even increases because, as you know, on the free days and before them, when you go to Selver, you go to Prisma, you see long queues there. Consumption is increasing, and maybe this increases the GDP of Estonia. But, of course, philosophically speaking, you are absolutely right, Mr. Stone Mountain. It is a philosophical question whether this day off is to celebrate, for example, February 24 or whether it will be a day off for February 24. Here I admit that, personally, I, too, am of the opinion that it is not intended to participate in events, and maybe we should add new dates.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U104	Thank you, my good colleague, for a very professional remark and for the reply. As far as GDP is concerned, I am absolutely convinced that this will certainly have some impact on it. The GDP of the additional holidays [because] is lower. And I also absolutely agree that it is very far from having a negative effect of 2%. Far from it! And once again, this compensation mechanism also exists that when a person is more rested, he is more motivated, he is happier, his work results are better, his productivity is better. So in this sense, the compensation mechanism is completely in place. I am afraid, however, that it does not fully compensate for this minus, but it is indeed not significant. At the same time, during the debate in this Chamber, there was a very fundamental question: as a Parliament, we should make a choice as to whether we want additional public holidays. If this desire is obvious and clear, then we may not be able to go as far as this bill prescribes. If we think it could be locked, this is a completely discussion place. In fact, this was confirmed by the procedural decisions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U105	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U106	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have repeatedly emphasised in this Chamber that whatever political decision we take, we should really consider how it affects the cohesion of society and whether it also has any regional policy effect. Indeed, remembering holidays, celebrations, celebrations that are important to the country is important to me, just as it is to meet family or friends. If you look at the regional political influence, if I travel from the centre of Tallinn to visit you in the centre of Pärnu, you can do it on Wednesday, you can do it on Saturday. But if a person from Räpina wants to visit his grandmother in Kärdla, then this race may be influenced by whether or not an additional day off will be added in addition to the public holiday falling on the weekend. How does it feel to have such coherence when families can be more together and regional political influence if we give an extra day to the holiday that falls on the weekend?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U107	Thank you, very respectable questioner. There is no doubt that this will, of course, increase this coherence. Once again, the problem with our society is that there is not enough time for social action. However, it would be a place where perhaps the wounds will be patched up and the hatchets buried, and people will be in a happy mood. So there is no doubt about it that it is certainly pleasant and positive for people, so to speak emotionally and psychologically. The question is simply how much, as a country at the level of development we are in today, we can afford it. There is no doubt that countries that are richer than us can afford more holidays. There is no doubt about that. Some talk about a Thursday week, and so on. But for me, I'm such a kind of rational person, maybe too rational anyway is [argument] that we're not yet rich enough to have the same number of holidays and holidays as there are in France, for example. However, I think that we are moving towards this goal every year. So once again, in a narrower circle, we could really discuss what we have planned. Do we want to get more public holidays compared to what is today? If that's the goal, maybe we could put this bill on hold a little bit. But if that is not the case, then we should definitely move forward with this draft and consider what further [to be done]. But yes, there is no doubt that people expect it, there is no doubt about it. And when I was talking about celebrating, Peter Ernits went away, I guess I realize that sometimes I want the day after the celebration, too. I didn't really understand it when I was young, but now I've experienced it sometimes so that the day of celebration could be followed by a day off. I mean, if the public holiday falls on Sunday, I'd like Monday to be free. So, in a human way, we completely understand that. At least I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U108	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U109	Thank you. Actually, Riina asked me a question, but I'll fix it one more time. Where are these possible compromises for me in the new calculation? Well, obviously, this solstice theme is a compromise for me, so it's Christmas, or it's Midsummer, if really people come together for the root, families gather. Then there should really be this compromise, there is no question here. There's got to be more day in here if you have to. This is, I don't know, I personally feel every year how these things should be arranged. Such social cohesion could certainly at least be achieved by fixing equinoxes. But it was more of an opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U110	Thank you, good questioner! That's a good opinion. That is, I think, a completely new and good dimension, how maybe to proceed with this draft, unless there is a significant increase in the number of public holidays. I'll even have one more. Not to be populist, it is my personal opinion, but as the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, 24 February, it is Sunday, then on Monday... You can't celebrate. Then you still can't celebrate it to the extent it is, I don't know, Thursday or Friday. In this sense, it may be one of the points of compromise that really need to be discussed. Maybe pick out a few days, in which cases it would be possible. But this is purely, once again, my personal position. This was not under discussion in the Commission, but we can, of course, table all these issues in the ensuing debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-15_U111	Thank you. No further questions. Then we can open negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Then it is that the lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 514 be stopped and the first reading is finished. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. of 29 March this year. That concludes the agenda for today, and the session is closed.
