ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good afternoon! We will begin the session of the third working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu and first ask the members of the Riigikogu for a speech chair who wish to hand over drafts or questions. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair, Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As the security situation is serious, I am now handing over the fourth question to the Prime Minister of Russia, concerning the action plan in the event of a military attack by Russia, so what are we going to do? Perhaps, in the introduction, it would be said that, in fact, the world's undemocratic powers, or the totalitarian China and authoritarian Russia, do not hide their main strategic goal of destroying the current United States-centred world order, where the West is in a dominant position. China wants to occupy Taiwan, Russia wants to restore its former Soviet sphere of influence. They both work together, coordinate different activities. And they take advantage of everything in society, according to Gerassimov's doctrine, maybe turn them into weapons and turn them into war like everything. We have been in more serious contact with the cyber war since 2007. There's been an information war all along. Now new weapons have come to the arsenal, i.e. a migration war, used as a weapon for migrants, used against our allies in Latvia, Lithuania, Poland. There is an energy crisis, Russia has restricted gas supplies to Europe. Energy will be used as a weapon in the future. Of course, the fighting itself, preparing for it. So are we raising military alert? And what are we going to do with all this complex crisis? And that is why we have 15 questions for the Prime Minister and also for the State Chancellery as a whole to consider. They may be meant as a helping hand here, as a positive spy, so that we can think better together and prevent this crisis from happening, unlike the previous ones to which we have reacted more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U3	I ask the Riigikogu Chair Heili Tõnisson, please, representative of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U5	Good waitress, I understand that the good news has come to us. Excellent! I'd really like to know the news myself. [[There's a comment in the hall.]] But a good representative, please hand it over, and then we'll get to the good news.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U6	Two draft laws: first, the draft law on public water supply and sewerage; in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Environment in the proceedings of the draft law; and second, the law on the amendment of the Air Services Act and other laws (public organisation of the use of aviation and airspace for defence purposes). In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence. Both of these drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U7	Good fellows! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. And the truth is that we have good news: Estonian athlete Kaia Kanepi has won the Australian Open and is moving forward, so I think we will definitely join her big congratulations. Happy birthday to him! [[Let's hear it.]] And after that message, it's good to have a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U8	70 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 31. Dear colleagues, now we must get to the approval of the agenda. In fact, we need to confirm the agenda for the third working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. At the moment, as far as I am aware, no changes have been made to the agenda that has been distributed. Let us begin the preparation of the vote on this agenda. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the third working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U9	With the result of 71 votes against and 1 abstention, the agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U10	Good fellows! Let's start with Monday's agenda. We have three questions at the moment. I want to tell all my co-workers before you leave here, good co-workers, after some questions, as usual on Mondays, a free microphone. You're all welcome in a hot, free microphone. First question. Urmas Reinsalu, Helir-Valdor Seedri, Heiki Hepner, Mikhail Lotman, Priit Sibula, Raivo Tamme, Andres Metsoja, Tarmo Kruusimäe and Üllar Saaremäe, members of the Riigikogu, have been asked about the problems of compensating energy price increases on the 9th Christmas day of 2021 and bears the number 98. Inquiry, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U11	Madam Prime Minister! Honourable representative of the people! On 9 December last year, Members of the Isamaa Group submitted an inquiry into the problems of compensating for energy price increases. In this we pointed out that the measures imposed by the government at the time, the measures decided on and, in fact, some of these measures were still being discussed at the time, while it is also known that, as early as the end of September, Parliament was drawing attention to the need to urgently find mitigation measures in relation to the energy crisis. We wanted to receive a friendly and supportive response from the Prime Minister on 9 December, which is the result of this disorder, the delay in launching the support measures, and who is personally responsible for this. We also wondered how it would be possible to pay them out more quickly and to offset the money with the state allocation through the municipalities, if this model had been chosen through the municipalities. Taking into account, I stress, the timing of the situation and the gravity of the situation, even for the low-insured people, Christmas and New Year's Eve, we considered it important that these compensatory measures should still be implemented over the last year. We asked the Prime Minister to come to Parliament on 13 December and to give an answer, and we could hold a debate on this. Christmas has taken place, Orthodox Christmas has taken place, New Year's Eve has taken place. In the meantime, the measures have been redesigned, redesigned. And now it is time for the Prime Minister to answer. In addition to the questions we have asked, I would ask the Prime Minister to give some brief answers to the specific problems. Firstly, as regards the government's approach to the exclusion of inflation. The energy crisis, we know, is central and is one of the greatest pressures on inflation today. Inflation was over 12% in December last year, the highest in the European Union. And our request would be for the Prime Minister to give the government a political approach to anti-inflationary measures so that the cost of living does not destroy the competitiveness of our economy and people's livelihood. In this regard, I would ask the Prime Minister to answer the question of why the government does not consider it appropriate to reduce the value added tax (VAT) on energy sources, both gas, heating and electricity. Since this would be a clear and understandable measure precisely in the fight against inflation, at least one-and-a-half, if not twice the economic impact, given the extent to which VAT would reduce the price increase for energy carriers. This would be positive for consumers, it would be neutral for businesses, because they will get VAT back. The second question concerns the fact that the government's measures relating to the increase in electricity prices focus on short-term compensation for a few months, but in fact we now have a future, and life will not end in spring. What is the government's treatment this year? Let us put aside the long-term, medium-term perspective of five to ten years, but this year, what are the measures to mitigate the increase in electricity prices? The Fatherland has proposed a plan for the reform of the electricity market. I would ask the Prime Minister for the position of the government in relation to the electricity market reform programme, which in fact means that small consumers, both households and businesses, will be able to acquire electricity off the stock exchange in the same way as before 2013, before the power exchange opens. Thirdly, I have a request. Why the government supports the continuation of this pan-European emissions trading system rather than, as many business organisations have proposed, the introduction of a uniform pre-emptive payment. These are the four small sub-questions, in addition to these two fundamental questions, to which, in view of such a long-term delay, part of the time has already given an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U12	I now ask the Prime Minister of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Kaja Kallas, to answer this question, which bears the number 98. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U13	Thank you. First of all, the honourable Riigikogu, respected heirs, § 74 of the Constitution provides that questions must be answered within 20 days of the sitting, and that is exactly how I will answer these questions and will be before you. And if you have any further questions, of course, in order to prepare them thoroughly and provide the members of the Riigikogu with correct answers, please submit an inquiry where all such questions are written. But I'm coming to this question. Question number one: what is the reason for this chaos and delay in launching the support measures and who is personally responsible for this? And the answer. The government has decided on the following measures to compensate for the rise in energy prices. Firstly, the 50 per cent reduction in the electricity grid fee at a total cost of 88,25 million concerns all electricity consumers, both natural persons and legal persons. Secondly, the full loss of the gas network fee at a total cost of 25,08 million. This concerns every gas consumer, both natural persons and legal persons. Thirdly, the measure is targeted at households where the income per person of the family is below the median wage. In this case, we will be compensated for the cost of energy, and I will talk about the increase in the price of electricity, gas and central heating by 80%. And that's from September to March, also retroactive. Then there are further measures agreed last Thursday. First, the price cap for all household customers is 12 cents per kilowatt-hour, for electricity consumption up to 650 kWh. This is calculated by the electricity seller himself and is valid from January to March. Secondly, the price cap for domestic customers is EUR 65 per megawatt-hour and the excess is compensated by the State for 100% until consumption of 2.75 megawatt-hours. And that's from January to March. For business customers, we will also compensate 100% for the network charges for electricity and this will also apply from January to March. The government adopted the first support measures for energy price increases at the end of October and the first support measures reached the population in two weeks. For example, the measure to reduce the electricity grid fee was already reflected in November for October. And at the end of November, i.e. one month after the government's decisions, the Minister of State Administration approved a targeted support measure regulation and its implementation, together with the test period, was developed in 1.5 months, which is a very limited time for IT development. The usual duration is at least nine months. But it was a necessary time for local authorities to prepare. And from January onwards, local governments started faster, such as Tartu, to inform their residents that support could be obtained, and already on 13 January money was transferred to the first applicants. Tallinn and Narva started receiving grants on 17 January and therefore they can help their residents later. The second question: is it forbidden for local governments to grant subsidies on the basis of applications and then to offset this money with the State allocation? If so, please explain why such a system has been chosen. If that is not the case, why are the municipalities not doing so? And the answer. The government has not adopted a corresponding ban. The municipality is a municipality provided for in the Constitution. It is the right, ability and duty of the democratically formed authorities of a municipality or city to organise and manage local life independently under the law, based on the legitimate needs and interests of the city and its inhabitants and taking into account the particularities of the development of the city and rural municipality. Local authorities must act in accordance with the Financial Management Act of the local government unit. The principles and conditions of the grant scheme, including funding, were developed in close cooperation with municipalities. The agreed settlement system seemed to be the best possible option, which, given the proposals and wishes made by local authorities, was the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U14	Thank you very much. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U15	Good manager! Prime Minister! I would like to ask you about the last measure proposed last week. When I look at these numbers, I wonder why today's coalition does not support those people who have bought fixed-price electricity and bought gas for ten years, but only supports those who have played on the stock market. If you look at these prices, it's 120 euros for a megawatt-hour. However, Norway supports EUR 70. So it can be said that Estonia has now received five of the richest in Europe, I understand, at least in its solvency, the government thinks. But what about today's electricity price, you know how much today's electricity price if you've always had fixed electricity? This is a fixed price of EUR 120 if it has been extended every year from 1 January. And the second question is, if I have gas and electricity at home, can these two things......can also be offset by each other, both of them. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Can the electricity cost be added to the gas consumption, or how have you ever thought about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U16	Thank you. I understand that everyone in this Chamber really likes this Norwegian example, but I stress, just in case, that Norway only compensates for electricity, that it does not compensate for gas, that it does not compensate for central heating, as we do. The Norwegian measure is four months to my knowledge, ours is seven months when we are talking about a targeted measure. So those who are... Also, in the case of fixed prices, for example, in Finland 90% of all contracts are fixed, only 10% are on the stock market getting their own price. There are half of them in Estonia, and therefore everything that goes beyond this price is also compensated. But in any case, in the long run, in the summer months, it really makes sense for those who fear these high peaks to still fix their prices. And it turns out that those who have done this before have done it wisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U17	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U18	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I understand that we have this so-called autonomy of the local authorities. However, if we still have one national crisis, then the solutions could also be national, not that there is a demand for additional proof from different local authorities, something else. And that's why people turn to us, so why don't we harmonise them? Have you received and how much of the signal that the required documents or proofs vary widely between municipalities and whether the government plans to harmonise them, or at least explain what principles one or the other is required to follow? Because, well, maybe if you ask for some corporate tax returns there, let's say, I'm gonna be asked why it's being demanded.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U19	Thank you. We have national solutions, they have been agreed nationally, they simply have to be implemented by local authorities. As far as this proof of income is concerned, these are precisely the same revenues that people must also prove in the tax return. If you don't have those benefits, you just don't have to make a cross in that box, you only have to make the return that is. Local authorities have been, some have perhaps been a little faster to implement these things and have been thinking about them already during the development of these measures, bringing out these problems in order to get things better. Others may not have done so much. But I believe that all local authorities want to help their people and that these national solutions will still be able to work. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the last measures we have taken do not require any application at all, that the bill will then be deducted from the bill, that the bill will therefore be cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U20	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U21	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In the evening paper today, there is an article entitled "Mama's Rattling in a 15-degree room," and it is an introduction to a subject that has not been brought to any attention in relation to high energy prices, but which is clearly one of the most serious components of energy consumption, energy deficit and high electricity prices. I quote: "At the same time as the pussy is in a 15-degree room, because she cannot pay the electricity bills, there are crypto mines attached to the Estonian power plants, which receive power from Eesti Energia at up to a third of the cost. It is estimated that 2% to 3% of the country's total peak consumption is needed to make the global business of a rather small group work. Crypto mines are directly attached to Estonian power plants, neither VAT nor network charges have to be paid. Is it really true that Eesti Energia has let its Auvere station into closed territory that mines bitcoins there? The company is said to have been allocated one megawatt of capacity on preferential terms. Do people groaning at the price of unreasonably high electricity also pay off the network fees of a state-run crypto mining company? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Is such an activity at the expense of all of us...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U22	Good questioner, I'm so sorry. Good questioner, your time! [[The questioner keeps talking.]] I'm sorry, your time! Please, Prime Minister, give an answer to this question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U23	Thank you. I have no such knowledge that these crypto mines are, so I got it from you right now, so we can find out if that's true. I really do owe you an answer in this regard right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U24	Siim Pohlak.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! We are talking about basically private consumption here, but you can also talk about business consumers. In addition to reducing network charges, will there be additional support measures for businesses? Our small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, especially in rural areas, is on the brink of disaster, these signals are coming on a daily basis, and our small family businesses, who are important employers in rural areas, have so many temporarily stopped their production or provision of services. Does the government have any plan to support our business in any way, or will our good entrepreneurs be left in a storm?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U26	Thank you. It is a great desire to help entrepreneurs. And we've been looking for this measure. I'm just describing what these difficulties are. These are the difficulties compared to domestic consumers. We have rules of competition and if, as a country, you pay some kind of support or some kind of advantage to certain companies, for example, in this case, who consume gas, for example, in the case of gas, the question immediately arises that others will not get it. So it's like they're getting some kind of competitive advantage over the others. Therefore, these things must be very much considered. In addition, there are a number of restrictions that companies can or cannot do. So we are looking for an opportunity to take additional measures. We are aware of the nature of this problem, but we are trying to ensure that these measures are legal and feasible. There's been a lot of thought going on here, but I can't say it today because there are things that still need to be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U27	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U28	Thank you. Prime Minister! There has also been a great deal of talk about energy saving, energy efficiency and time production up to 200 kilovolts of plants, to solar plants. Today in the Committee on the Environment, we also had a debate with the owner's representatives, both Elektrilev and Elering, present, including a minister who opened the chapter that the state is about to take on as if it were a commitment that this accession would be borne by all of us, or the taxpayer. It wouldn't have to do with a single station because it's a wider topic, this network has to hold on, and there's a lot of details. However, in the course of this debate, there was an immediate dispute where there was one state company on one side, on the other side, and there was, frankly, a situation where there was a political sentence that could be resolved, but it soon came to the conclusion that there was still a complete ambiguity. We actually want businesses, private consumers themselves to help, but how can we get over this quickly now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U29	Yeah. There are a number of such issues. One side is all the energy efficiency and solar panels or small production measures that actually go off. It has been my great wish that they are greater than what is now foreseen, because we have, as if, from the recovery facility, money coming up for these issues. That's one side. The other side concerns these accessions in order to speed up these accessions. We really have over 8 000 megawatts of connections on hold, for various reasons, and some of these reasons are related to the fact that network operators are always modeling around this network in order for each production to fit into that network. And that could really be the responsibility of the system operator to get this process going. Now, there are no different views from market participants. We have a core network that belongs directly to the State, and then we have network operators who are connected to certain producers and these producers may not always be interested in having other producers access to the market. But let's try to solve this situation. It seems to me that MKM has proposed a solution that could work. The network operators also say it could work. So we can get away from the stump precisely for those productions that big consumers, for example, have thought more about themselves to solve their energy needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U30	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. And thank you for leaving me with the questioners. Prime Minister! You have also promoted and promoted wind farms and sunbathings here. But just when I got here, I was talking to the owner of a solar park who said he was paying for it, he was paying for it, and he wasn't paying for it. And it actually adds a considerable load to his electricity bills, especially during the winter period. So at least this isn't the solution right now, in the current situation. And my question is what the government is going to do to bring electricity prices down permanently, say, somewhere 35 to a maximum of 40 euros in megawatt-hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U32	Thank you. First of all, I am not promoting a separate wind, I am promoting renewable energy. Renewable energy is hydropower, wind, solar energy as well as biomass or biogas in the same way that can be used, and because their input prices or their variable costs are lower, which brings this price down. The supply-demand ratio is not functioning on the market, and if we have little supply and a lot of demand, then the price will go up and therefore either increase supply or reduce demand. That these are the basics. On the one hand, energy savings, for which different measures are envisaged, when we are talking, for example, about making apartment buildings, institutions more energy-efficient, which would bring this savings side. On the other hand, the construction of various production capacities which have not been sufficiently developed during this period. And the third, which is also linked, is still connections with different other Member States in order, for example, to become part of the cheap electricity prices that these renewable sources have in other countries. So last Tuesday I was here in front of the Riigikogu and I listed the various steps that we all take. We are now starting to take these steps in order to better manage these prices overall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U33	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U34	Thank you. Prime Minister! Let us be precise and let us not mislead the listeners and here members of the Riigikogu that there is one solution in Norway and we have another solution and Norway is valid for the long term and we have seven months. In the next sentence, you said that this measure, which was the subject of long disputes, was the subject of an agreement between January and March. I'm counting it's three months, not seven months. And this bureaucratic system, which is not going to work and which is not going to work, is valid for seven months and today we are in a situation where there are two schemes, one is then the scheme of the Reform Party and the other is the scheme proposed by the Centre Party. But the fact is that the gas used for district heating is not compensated, which means that in Pirital and Viimsi, the new houses that are heated by gas are eligible for aid and, for example, in Vändra, which are raised up, apartment dweller, sell or teacher, are not eligible for aid according to the new scheme. It is aimed entirely at the forest, contrary to your own proposals, which you have made in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U35	No, it's not. First of all, there are two different measures. Again, what is better for our system is that we actually have more of these measures than Norway. We have both out-of-the-line measures - a 50% reduction in electricity grid charges, a 100% reduction in gas grid charges and then these price caps for both gas and electricity, which apply to all, and in addition to the targeted measure, to those whose income is below the median. This is precisely to help those who need more help. So these are these sides. As far as district heating is concerned, district heating is covered by it, and in this respect gas price easings actually help those district heatingers who use gas to bring this price down.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U36	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U37	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Kaja Kallas! You will answer today's question about the problems of compensating energy price increases. This enquiry was submitted on 9 December. It's January 24th. Yes, your reasoning is obvious that the reference to § 74 in the Constitution must be answered during the session of the Riigikogu within 20 days. Of course, formally, you are right, but given that this is a crisis situation where practically the whole population is in trouble, either you are showing either now a condescending attitude towards both the members of the Riigikogu and the people, or you have no full competence to deal with the crisis, because you do not even know what the price of one megawatt-hour is, which is 30 euros per kilowatt. When will you resign?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U38	Yeah, thanks! I don't think I'll ever be able to meet the expectations you have about me being in this room how often I should be. Yes, I was a member of the Riigikogu, I was in this Chamber every day, but now that is not the case and indeed I am not every day. Procedure for answering questions. § 74 of the Constitution says that you must come to answer within 20 days of the sitting, and during these 20 days of the sitting I have come to answer here. So it's exactly what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U39	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Echo! First of all, this beloved Norwegian-Estonian theme. I say right away that if we take the ratio of Norwegian wages to the price of electricity and the ratio of Estonian wages to the price of electricity, then in Norway the price of energy is six times lower than in Estonia. This is, first of all, about statistics. But we are talking about the problems of compensating energy prices. And you know that the biggest problem at the moment, which would certainly expect an answer, is that in itself it is extremely nice that we are developing and proposing various measures in this government. Well, anything helps, anyway. But the moment we look, we have targeted measures that are a few months long, and we have long measures, well, nuclear plants, windmills, whatever, in the sea and on land. But the problem we have now is that it is estimated that these problems will last for years, four, five or six more years. The question now is that long measures will not come into force, we will run out of short measures. How do we proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U41	Thank you. However, first of all, I must correct this example of Norway. Therefore, if we take a purely market area, Norway will be divided into several market areas. Yeah, it's cheap in the north, because there's a lot of hydropower, and there was an electricity price on January 24, 12.47. However, if we take southern Norway, there's 134.20. So, in fact, your reference isn't true that our price is so much more expensive. Secondly, our measures are 2.5 times more extensive if we take as an example the ratio to GDP. Also, if we take per capita as a relationship, our measures will be greater. So this is the stop. If you are asking about the future, I agree with you that we need to look at how we can help people in such a narrow perspective, in the medium term, how we can bring prices down, and also in the long term, how to ensure stable electricity prices in our market. That was a long story last Tuesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U42	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U43	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! Today, in essence, one population group has been excluded from support, and these are our nursing home residents. Indeed, last week you also said that in a week, at most two, you will have a solution on the table how to support them. Last night, when I listened to the Minister for Social Protection, I didn't get that kind of confidence. It is already convinced that it has been adequately supported through the reduction of network charges. Are you rejecting his claim and saying that the government is still going to support this population group, or are you going to agree with him and say that they have already gotten it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U44	Thank you. The Minister for Social Protection has considered the various solutions to this problem, and we will certainly be discussing these solutions. Whether these solutions are all still working, I do not have an answer to you now, but we are fully aware of the concerns of this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U45	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U46	Thank you. Of course, our people are in very great trouble, and those who have a fixed package are also in very great trouble. Although you commend it, but this package will also run out, and not only in the summer, when the price is hopefully lower, but also in winter, and the new package will not be able to benefit at all. But all this insane price of energy will also lead to huge inflation, Europe's greatest, and price increases. How do you intend to alleviate it? And how are you going to help our business so that they can still stay on the ground and survive this crazy situation? Their input prices are constantly increasing, they are forced to raise prices, and it is like a big squirrel wheel that does not run out or start. But you help and compensate for only one end, you deal with the consequences, but not the cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U47	Thank you. On the one hand, the reason is that our economy has done very well. If we compare our economies to the European average, or to those of our neighbours, our economies have grown more than those of Latvia, Lithuania, Finland and Sweden. Our unemployment rate is lower than in Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Sweden. And the fact that we have done well, our society has been open, that also means that the economy has had a chance to develop. Now, worldwide, the problem is that demand for all inputs has increased and prices have gone up. We saw it last summer. This is not just an Estonian problem; it is a global problem. What do we do with it? Firstly, these are the same electricity support measures that help to bring this inflation down and have actually had an impact on the braking of inflation. Eesti Pank has also admitted this. Now, one more thing I want to comment on. You say that the fixed package is somewhat inherently bad. But in reality we also have, I mean, at the moment of Riigikogu's proceedings, there is an amendment to the Electricity Market Act, which gives the possibility to conclude fixed packages over a longer period of time, for which electricity sellers have said that if this amendment to the law enters into force, it will also be possible to bring the fixed price package down to a few dozen megawatts, because they have the assurance that they can distribute it over a year. And I also know that electricity sellers make agreements that their electricity bills can be paid in such a way that parts are equal between different months. If it's a low price in the summer, you'll pay more than that price. But for over a year, you have a stable electricity price, and you don't have to worry about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U48	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U49	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good lord! I have a question about some of the same thing. Do you, or to what extent do you consider it reasonable that a large number of consumers in Estonia, including private consumers, have many pensioners in stock exchange packages at all? To what extent do you think it makes sense to people to understand or understand it before December-January's bills, which rose to the people of this problem? Since at the beginning you were not prepared to discuss the proposals of the Centre Party to compensate for the electricity market at all, later not only did you discuss it, but you agreed with them, I have a request and a question together: would you be prepared to discuss and support the proposal of the Fatherland on the reform of the electricity market, so that, at least temporarily, people can enter into direct agreements with, for example, Eesti Energia, which has been our idea that people should not be involved on the stock market or in a context where there is probably no point in changing this package now, because it does not affect much?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U50	Thank you. The question of fixed prices. In fact, there is an opportunity to enter into such contracts with Eesti Energia, where it fixes the price, or with any electricity seller. Now, why do you ask why we have or older people could have more of them at a fixed price, why is there a stock exchange? It seems to me that this has been linked to the fact that very little has been said about the functioning of this electricity market and that these risks have not been acknowledged because the price of electricity has been low. And if you get the lower end, no one complains. But when the price gets high, it's hard for people to understand. There is also one concern that, for example, if you are not, you will be asked and you will not choose the package, you will automatically receive this stock market package. So, in fact, all people who don't feel safe are automatically like those stock exchange packages. It seems to me that perhaps one effect of this crisis is that there is more awareness and more talk about what one or the other package will bring. And this may increase people's awareness of the various risks involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Please explain how the measures imposed by your government, including targeted measures, will help people whose home is located in a district-fired house, such as North Tallinn, where Adven Eesti AS will broadcast the warm-up gas and where prices have been raised for three consecutive months and now there has been a notice of the February price increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U52	Thank you. This targeted measure, which we did in October, concerns the increase in the price of electricity, district heating and gas, and 80% of the price increase is reimbursed to families whose income is below the median. As regards the general measures, the total reduction of the gas network charge will also affect the price for those district heating that use gas as an input. And as I said before, we are also looking for additional opportunities for entrepreneurs who use gas to help, but there are some problems that we are currently struggling with.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U53	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You touched them in part, but I'd like to ask them again. We are talking about, for example, Northern Pärnumaa, Vändra, where it seems that this situation is quite difficult. If the heat bill for a three-room apartment tends to go to 500 euros, it is not good, it is not a long-lasting situation. Do you also have any monitoring system that if measures in some area prove inadequate or something is overlooked, the government can respond adequately and quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U55	Thank you. Yes, there is no such automatic monitoring system, of course, but this monitoring is carried out through the fact that comments and proposals are or will be brought to the attention of these bottlenecks. So this information will definitely reach us, if there really is such a bigger problem that we can't help people with this system in Vändra either, then we need to see how we can improve this thing so that this problem can be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U56	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U57	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! We have talked a lot about individuals' compensation here today, we have also talked about companies. But now the state budget is all kinds of agencies, foundations, hospitals and others. For example, ERR was simply paid 2 million more, but not everyone can be granted exceptions in the same way. Let me give you an example here. In Pärnu hospital, if usually half a million euros is this fixed price purchase, it is expected to increase by half on expiry, upon termination of this current contract and when the stock market situation falls. And there's a lot of them. That municipalities turn out the lamps and. So what are we doing, is there just the money in the state budget to pay them off these sharp increases, and not just once, what do we do if the situation continues?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U58	Thank you. Local authorities, who are also both electricity and gas consumers, are affected by reductions in electricity grid charges in exactly the same way and should receive aid from them. Now the income base of local governments is increasing by over 100 million this year, and at the moment we only have January, so all income is distributed over the whole year, and at least it should be now. This problem may actually arise at the end of the year, if it is clear that there are shortcomings there. So, yes, I would be more concerned about people's livelihoods now than with local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U59	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Last year, as we know, the price of the CO2 quota increased sharply. Has the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications prepared a forecast for this year, five years and the end of the decade, so how could the price of the CO2 quota behave, or how much could it rise? And have they also analysed how this could now affect the price of energy, or electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U61	Thank you. Discussions on this ETS system are also ongoing in Europe. After all, the high price of CO2 has actually touched everyone in a uniform way, and because these discussions are going through the whole review of this system, I think there is still some result. What has our attitude been? The fact is that this price should still be predictable and linear, because it is especially for businesses to be able to take account of it when it is constantly fluctuating. And secondly, there have been doubts that this price has somehow been manipulated. This is currently being examined by market surveillance as to whether this is true. But if you ask me for specific prices, I don't have that paper on me right now. I don't dare shoot off my hip like that, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U62	Prime Minister, thank you. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair in the Riigikogu Aivar Koka.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U63	Good manager! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Let's talk again about something as promised. I have not seen any government orders that, in January, the price of gas or electricity, to some extent and at some marginal price, will be compensated. It's just talk. But I am saddened by the fact that very many people in Estonia are conservative. And they've been on the stock market 10 years ago, fixing their gas and electricity prices. And now, if I look at the subsidies that the government will probably decide at some point, then in November there was a announcement that the fixed price for electricity would end at the end of the year and the new price would be 120. Perhaps people who have bought fixed - price electricity for all 10 years can continue to reap. And everyone who has played on the stock market, in a good way, is still in the profits mostly at the end of December, even though prices have risen, because the previous 9.5 years have made a profit. They win. It's the same with gas. And when we talk about the electricity market law, which the Prime Minister also mentioned, it has been standing in the Riigikogu for four months. The first reading has been completed in early November. There is indeed this option that if a fixed contract were to be concluded in such a way that it would not be possible to withdraw from it in a month's time, then Eesti Energia has said that she would give up the price quickly from that end and the fixed price would be somewhere 80 euros per megawatt-hour. And Eesti Gaas has said that if you make a three-year contract, it will be less than 60 euros. Perhaps these prices would be much cheaper than today. As a great victory, they say the coalition has made some kind of agreement. I think that in this energy crisis, one of the most important things has been forgotten, which has not been spoken once in this Chamber or in the government. For the last two to three months, our people have turned down their home heating. Who's talking about 15 degrees, who's talking about 18 degrees, but everything's turned the temperature down. We'll talk about people's health after a while. If you're in a cold room for days and go outside, it's not warmer. It's always possible to stay inside with your coat and socks, but what does it do for health? This is a very important issue. And if you look at it, you wouldn't want to set this example in Norway or give an example. For me, the question is that somewhere in the coalition agreed that a certain amount of gas would be compensated at a certain price, and with the same amount of electricity. Is electricity and gas both meant for this family? Can he choose which one he'll compensate for? If he doesn't want electricity, could gas compensation be bigger? Do you calculate the size of your family? How big is your home? We have been talking for 30 years, no matter which party has said that Estonia needs the middle class. Needs good families. And a good family always has an important home. People have built homes for themselves. Young families have bought homes with loans, are private homes or apartments. Most of them have also leased a car to work. And many of them have small children growing up at home. They have not taken into account the fact that instead of EUR 150, energy costs have to be paid at EUR 600. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U64	Yeah, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U65	And now they've taken into account their loan burden. And if at one point you have 450 euros coming up with a cost that you wouldn't have thought in your sleep, how will these families manage? It is our young families, to whom no support will come. This €1200 support will not come to help these families because they have done well, because the maternity allowance is higher than she is at home with her child. Dad gets as much as he gets, and he doesn't belong to anywhere. He's fixed his electricity, gas prices. These prices are something that is currently being compensated, but the price of electricity has increased at least twice in January, even at best. Many have grown threefold. We do not know yet today what the price of January gas is. That's what we'll find out when the bill comes home to us. On Thursday last week, the Ministry of Economic Affairs realized that not only is the electricity issue, but there is also the gas problem in the same way for a fixed price. If the draft has been brought to the Riigikogu at the end of September with the electricity system, no one has talked about this matter with gas. Gas is one of the cleanest fuels, for example, a gas boiler does not need chimneys. And then we're talking about what we're doing here? Today, we have put young families, especially middle-class families, in the most difficult position. They don't get benefits, they have loans, they raise their children. In fact, I hope that today's coalition politicians will look back on it once again. Yes, no one should complain about our members of the Riigikogu; we can handle our salary no matter how big the energy bill is. But the average Estonian person cannot. We have 75 percent of people getting average pay or less. How many owners of the estate are they trying to make big criminals here, that you can see, that they have fixed themselves with their own money and perhaps with the support of the state, proper heritage conservation objects? They should be thanked, not bullied. I hope once again that today's government will not tell us that you see, in October, we made a decision, we came at the end of November, we understood that there was a need to amend the law. This was done quickly in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, added to another bill, and now local governments are accused that they have failed. They couldn't start sharing money and subsidies because there was no such law. You can't do things illegally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U66	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Henn Põljaala.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U67	Honourable Chairman! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, what we have to deny here, we have repeatedly and repeatedly said that we are in an unprecedented crisis, and it is not at all wrong to repeat it. The hope behind this is that it will be noticed that it will also be noticed by the government. In Estonia, Europe has the highest inflation and price increases. This increase in energy prices, crazy and insane is not only hitting our people, but also our entrepreneurs. And today we are in a situation where their input prices, their production, have become more expensive than what it was at so-called normal times. We have very many examples, through newspapers, via the media, where from a few thousand euros the bills have grown to a few tens of thousands and from a few tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands and from hundreds to thousands of thousands. But what does that mean? This means that businesses are forced to raise prices. And so, our people are hit not only by the rise in electricity and gas prices, but by all, all food, transport, whatever, all prices are rising. And that's what we're seeing every day when we're going to the store. But this is just the beginning. This is just the beginning. And the worst part is that it can take our businesses to close doors because their goods no longer have buyers, people just can't buy and they can't produce at this cost anymore. And this also applies to agriculture, poultry farms, livestock farming, the food industry, where most things are done with electricity and also some, for example, bread factories also work with gas, where this increase is even worse. And there's no way out. And there's no way out from the government. I was just asking the Prime Minister here what the government is going to do to reduce this inflation, to reduce the price increase. And the only answer was that even if we give people a little bit of money at the fingertips, we partially compensate for these high prices, that it reduces inflation. Well, I don't know, my economic perceptions are quite different. that if we share money, it will have the opposite effect on inflation. But today we see that what is being scrambled off this finger is being eaten many times, after all, by this price increase. When I asked about these future scenarios where, as a result, we could have businesses going bankrupt, our people becoming unemployed, I heard that we have had such good economic growth so far and the lowest unemployment rate. Indeed, so far, at the beginning of last year, our entrepreneurs were very optimistic, more optimistic than those in the other Baltic countries, but today this situation is quite the opposite. And today we are already hearing how people are gradually being laid off, how Estonian Cell, one of the largest energy producers and also the company at the forefront of the number of people at work, closed its doors in the meantime because of their crazy prices. In fact, it is very real that one day we will see the next 100,000 people leaving Estonia again. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U68	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U69	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U70	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U71	And that last departure was precisely because of the actions and omissions of the same Reform Party in the previous economic crisis. And today, we're being steered in exactly the same direction. There are no business-oriented aid packages and measures. The result may be exactly the same. If we are actually talking about unemployment, that we are small, then we can also freely deal with the 100,000 people who left here precisely because they did not have a job, that tens of thousands of companies went bankrupt and were forced to go abroad to get their daily bread, if we put a bunch of other people on the end of it, then I would say that we are completely in disaster. But these people are being forgotten and they're trying to make a face like there's nothing wrong with us. Now, from these last measures. These first measures, they are absolutely appalling, totally insane bureaucracy, time-consuming confusion, where a very, very, very large number of people who should actually qualify for these grants simply cannot do so. Even if it is because their income is perhaps only one euro larger than that envisaged. It's nonsense. But even now those measures, which were proclaimed with a great cry of victory and hurrah, come on, forgive me. That's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, And if you compensate for up to 650 kilowatts, then maybe the person gets twenty euros a month, but when the bills are in hundreds and hundreds, it doesn't help him and it doesn't help the people who have built their own house or brought the apartment to electric heating. After all, for years and years, the country has supported and encouraged it, talking about how clean and simple and good it is. Once, the night electricity was half the price, and people made a choice and chose it. And today they say that people have made the wrong choice. You've made the wrong choice! No, they didn't. They did their best to make sure they knew. Exactly the same thing they say you've made the wrong choice when you've chosen this stock market package. No, it's not. Because on a fixed price, just this high price is evenly spread over the year. After all, we have nearly 100,000 people, somewhere in sight, who just finished or will end these packages, and they are still paying this full price and have still paid a significantly higher price than those who own the stock exchange package. And in Finland, for example, and in England, everywhere else, many providers of a fixed package have gone bankrupt. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So this isn't the solution and the government isn't offering us any solutions, it's just trying to look like they're helping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U72	I now ask the Riigikogu's speech chair, Priit Sibul. Are you asking for a little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U73	I'm not sure. If I have to, I'll ask. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ruler and colleagues here and there on the screens! Of course, each of us has realised that we are in an energy crisis and that these measures, or not measures, were foreseen, but that the problems were foreseen. But I do not dare say that there is a person or can blame the government for not foreseeing how the Russians deal with gas, how the low-pressure regions move in Norway, and all the other things that end up in December 21 or January 2022 at a difficult moment. It would be a sin to blame the government for that. What's the problem? The problem is that solutions should come from the government. And, of course, ministers, members of the government have talked about long-term needs and solutions, which obviously also need to be addressed. And here, the most important issue is that Estonia should select the strategic regions at national level where to build sea wind parks and also on land. And, probably by looking over the stones and stumps that we have gone through, even state-owned companies, it is reasonable to agree and the state will process these plans for its own part and then either a competition or, as a result, search for those investors to set up these necessary energy productions there. Now, however, these measures. Last week, several times from this remote control, this version was spoken and praised, how well Tartu has been and how it is going and how they started all week earlier and even already had the opportunity to pay out benefits when people were just thinking and preparing in Tallinn and just starting last Monday. I do not think this is fun and fun, because, as far as I know, these costs, also looking at how many officials were employed, certainly these procedural costs are much higher than the support granted by the government to local authorities to deal with this bureaucracy. It's a huge avalanche you have to go through. This is what concerns the local government. I got a call from a friend who helped his parents make that request. It took him two hours because he didn't have access to the older banks, one didn't have an Internet bank, so the IRS page had to look for these incomes and things. It took him two hours to get them all together electronically from different databases. The other guy who did it for himself, the younger person, he only took 40 minutes, and then he got nine euros. As a result, it will then be compensated for the measure that Minister Aab has given us here and very much commended by the government and the Prime Minister. What Aivar Kokk now referred to was that we had a Prime Minister at the beginning of last week saying that he would not even discuss the proposals of the Centre Party, in the end, just as I said on my question, not even took it into consideration, but also supported them to a large extent. It is still difficult to comment on them, because we do not have government regulations, orders in this opposition. We can comment on the communication that has been communicated to us by the members of the government. But I don't think it's very reasonable to start commenting on other people's comments. If there are specific arrangements, then you can praise or curse ahead. The thing I agree with, and when I asked the Prime Minister, it is that I do not believe that there should be a normal small consumer on the stock market. This is probably the part where it's the fault of each of us here that we didn't explain that the stock exchange isn't exactly the place where every person should move and think. Of course, anyone who wants to take these risks and carry them must have that opportunity, but it should not be the first choice for a person. A person should still be able to predict his own costs. But it's not that simple when we're trying to make it look like we keep going off the stock market and fixing prices. In today's context, it makes no sense to go fixing these prices. First of all, we're not offered a good option. I would, however, take this extra opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U74	You have it. Just a question of how much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U75	I'm gonna take three, but I'm not gonna use it all. Therefore, I really have a request and a proposal that the government discuss this package of reform of the Isamaa electricity market, which would consist in people buying directly from a larger producer in Estonia, in today's context, from Eesti Energia with a direct contract. In Estonia enough renewable energy is also produced in Eesti Energia, they are able to offer this price reasonably, just as it is in Lithuania or France. I think that this would be a sensible measure, in the short term, that we as a country could do and that is compatible with European law. I don't know, it would make sense for the government to discuss whether and how long. I think this could be a permanent opportunity in principle, but maybe it should really be limited to a period when we have enough of these capacities built up here. But I'm sure there's a need for today's power, and I'm very much asking for it to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U76	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Heiki Hepner, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U77	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! Indeed, what has been going through here many times has it been that, under the conditions of the energy crisis, you have really come here, well, within the time prescribed by law, but if there is a crisis, there is a response to it, and these expectations have certainly been something else, so that we can really agree on solutions more quickly. That is why I am not spending any more time on this subject, so it is up to everyone to decide whether to come when the last minute is almost there or to try to react quickly. But what I would like to put to my heart are the measures that have been taken today on the one hand, but which leave the ends open in many places. Well, I understand that people are still thinking about how to help district-fired apartment owners a little better than this targeted and extremely clumsy measure allows. After all, the clumsyness and how to tell, not the properness of the e-governance, have been commented and pointed out from every corner. It is true that it is funny that we apply this option, where basic data must also be recorded manually in the population register and cannot be automatically transferred. Not to mention that there would have been some sort of completely automatic possibility of reimbursement, given this aim too. But today it is, and it is quite clear that you will not ride far with such a horse. Another issue that I really hope for, and the Prime Minister said, should be discussed seriously, is that it is still important for the government when it answers my question, and it is the residents of nursing homes. Here's two moments. Firstly, it is a general increase in prices, which increases the place fees for nursing homes. But the second is the principle of equal treatment, that if we see some kind of easing for the homeowner about rising energy prices, this group of people has still been left largely unaided, even though they should be the most aimless one, I would stress: this is the most aimless target group we are helping. Today it's so-called rich, and it's like something's pudding against the will of the government. Of course, the way forward is very important in dealing with this whole issue. We really do have short measures, well as good as they are, but they do exist. We have ideas on how to move forward in ten years' time, or at least thoughts on long-term investments, even the possibility of making a nuclear power plant in 15 years' time has been thrown into the air. All of this is worth discussing, and when the common ground is finally found with the people, so is implementation, of course. But this intermediate part is actually uncovered. In fact, this intermediate part is already coming to us in the next autumn, where we are again expecting high energy prices, where energy consumption will increase, where energy prices are expected to increase as a result of security threats. So... Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U78	Yeah, sure, please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U79	... it is high time today to think about how to proceed with those interim measures that act on self-regulation that are not a burden on the state budget, so we will endlessly pay someone's bills. Here I can say and call on the government to consider seriously the solution proposed by the Fatherland, where the citizen can at least buy directly from the producer in terms of electricity and, at the same time, trade in CO2 so that it does not add to the price of electricity in this form. It is irresponsible to say that today's high price of CO2 will not have an absolute impact on the price of energy. That kind of talk is irresponsible. It is quite directly reflected in the price of electricity. So, with these tasks, the government should be working very hard to ensure that when we gather in this hall in the autumn, we do not have to ask questions again about why the situation in the energy market is so poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U80	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Andres Metsoja. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U81	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Indeed, it is the custom of society to act as a reason and then as a result. That that's what we've been doing here, and at the same time, we're actually dealing with the cause. That we all understand that today's situation in the energy market, where there is basically a change in energy, requires intervention, but we all obviously understand in this Chamber that there is not enough clean air on subsidies for very long. In order for something to come forward, we must look to the future and try to plan these following measures so that this same green turn can survive. And indeed, the European Commission has laid down this through this CO2 measure, through CO2 trade. And they have, after all, rightly formulated the idea that the whole green turns and the carbon market should work in conditions of economic growth so that the economy really can survive all of this. Inevitably, what must have happened was something that no one in particular dared predict. What has happened is that the price of CO2 has jumped 100 tons from EUR 25. And there is a crazy situation that we are trying to resolve with all the countries. But today, in the Committee on the Environment, we were actually trying to look at this glass ball, this future, called the energy economic development plan, as a document until 2025. And indeed, it is very easy to give this answer to the public that nuclear energy is green energy and that solves all our problems. It's like the problem is solved, the subject is off the table, we repeat the mantra ten times, people start to believe. But we all understand that this is a very distant future, even if it somehow happens in Estonia. And on the other hand, what's at the top of this chain, which is our problem, is the controlled energy, oil shale energy, which is the most expensive, and in the bottom, in terms of cheapness, is wind energy and actually the same solar parks that could give us competitive and cheap electricity. But if we go into content and we think about how a citizen or an entrepreneur can help himself in this situation, so that not only can we rely on state-owned tax incentives, well, let's say, reduce the network fee or pay off some electricity. There are certainly many among us who wonder how I can ensure energy savings in my household, ensure that we can help change the energy market and do something about it or use modern heating solutions. Well, then we're actually gonna be in a situation where we're gonna be filling out the application on the state company's website to join the network, when more than 15 kilowatts of power is on this station, it's gonna be a little easier, but if you're already on the 25 kilowatts, time starts running, and the self-help plan is gonna last 150 days. 150 days is the minimum time for replying, where it will be possible to get an answer about your future, whether or not it will be possible to build this station. And while we are waiting in society for such clarity that, where or where to go, whether to put ground heating or to do a power plant or what else to do, to heat up our households and businesses, there is a message coming out of the government that it would actually make sense to intervene with the funds of the recovery fund at all and, in fact, to bring these costs down socially so that if we were to build energy plants, solar power plants, for example up to 200 kilovolts, society would bear this cost. I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U82	Yes, may I ask how much? How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U83	Thank you. I'll take three if I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U84	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U85	Thank you. And then, as a member of the Riigikogu in public session today, there was once again a chance to wonder that if you are trying to find this path on this energy map, that there will be a debate between two large network companies, who I think rightly says it is a critical time and socially must intervene in order to improve this infrastructure in competitive conditions, because indeed, the Estonian energy network is built to sell electricity rather than to buy electricity from all sides together, that this principle needs to be revised and that quite high costs should be incurred. But then another state company says no-no, it's not justified in any way. And thirdly, the minister, says that he has a personal experience of his own little station, and actually it's still very bad, that in fact such small stations should not be encouraged so lightly that there should be some smart expert somewhere who would say what from the country at all, because otherwise there might be a situation where you have to pay for this station. Then you listen and you think, "What's the message now?" That if we talk about the future in the same way, I understand that when we talk about the nuclear station, we can agree that this is a very remote project, and maybe that will solve all the problems, despite the fact that Belgium and Germany have closed down their stations now, that Germany is buying 35% of its gas from Russia and so on, and so on. But, well, maybe so. But if we wanted to do something now, we still have a lot to do together, frankly. And I hope that, indeed, as a matter of urgency, this energy economic development plan, in its renewed form or in its updated approach, will soon be able to reach us in this Chamber. Because it is very difficult to communicate with anyone as a vigilante, to talk to a local government whose bills may have risen to street lighting five times, or specifically to a nursing home, or to a family or entrepreneur. So what are these solutions by the end of the day anyway? Well, the government's direction in this sense still seems to me that this crisis has served its purpose, has sat much together and been discussed, and then even several packages have been agreed. Is that finally the solution? In the long run, it's probably a drop in the sea. However, we should strive more to shape a person's way of thinking every day with our discussions, not to get that support, digitally or on paper, but to see how we can develop our economic space, how we can compete internationally. Because, in fact, energy prices have often been the reason why Estonia has come and invested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U86	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Helir-Valdor Seeder. Yes, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U87	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The inquiry was presented in relation to the problems of compensating for price increases. Of course, this is a topical and topical issue today, but we know that this is a topic that will remain for years, and this is a very long-term and fundamental problem. Therefore, in addition to compensating for this price increase, we should now also discuss very thoroughly the longer term and strategic decisions that must be taken at the level of Parliament, which must be taken at the level of the government. This concerns the creation of additional generation capacity from renewable energy, it is the sun, it is the wind. This is an issue that will certainly also concern the possible construction of a nuclear power plant. I think there are very different views in Estonian society here. It is also a question of oil shale energy, of how sustainable it is in the near future and whether it is also one of the possible alternatives. As it turns out now, we've spit in the old well too soon. In today's moment, even in the current European Commission's policy and CO2 policy, as revealed in the crisis situation? It turned out that Estonian oil shale plants had to be put to maximum use in order to bring down the market price. This is a serious place to think. So I think that all of this must be taken into account, thinking that next year and the year after next will be winter, it will be cold, it will be a dark time. The same with connections to our European Union's financial period is one of the priorities of decoupling Russia's networks. However, integration into European networks is not happening at enough speed. When will Estlink 3 be completed in the near future and other transmission options? It'll take all the time. Of course, also investments in electricity and energy saving. What is the state policy here? Here we have been, say, through the ages and modest, though very much has been done, but much more could have been done. And the current government, I understand, does not intend to channel any additional resources into this area. There is certainly a need for changes in CO2 policy; here, I think, all the political parties in Parliament have said so. What's the government's position? This is the time when these positions must be expressed. There is a debate on the issue of the green turn in Parliament. We have wanted to be discussed not only by the Pro Patria Party but also in this large Chamber, in addition to the Committee on European Union Affairs. We saw whether there was any power to convince the government coalition that this issue had to be brought here from the Committee on European Union Affairs to shape the position of the great Chamber. The fact that it has been through here once as a matter of national importance is a matter of its own. But if we are actually going to dissect Estonia's positions and form a position, then the great hall here, where all members of the Riigikogu can also participate in negotiations, ask questions, I think, is a completely different format and another environment. That should be done right now, and I don't think the government should ignore it. I also think that the functioning of the stock exchange, pricing, transparency of pricing, the fact that the electricity price is being set according to the latest offer, is not an element of a free market economy, certainly not. This needs a separate debate. How can this be reorganized in the future? These are big issues. But now, come to the topical issues. I still have no idea why the Government has not discussed very seriously the proposal of the Fatherland to reform the electricity market. I have asked the Prime Minister in Question Time, we have asked it in a written manner, here the members of the Riigikogu have asked questions, but they are slipping past it. They're slipping past it. I have not heard very strong criticism on this point that what are the drawbacks then, why should it not be discussed? Because it's completely bureaucratic, nobody needs to make a statement, apply, bring some evidence. There is no need to start paying grants to anyone here. Here we are even reducing the tax burden in this package, in the current situation, which is very reasonable. And I haven't heard the government's criticism of that. To enable domestic and small consumers to purchase electricity over the counter, this additional option would be given without losing the existing options. And in this form today, this price would not be more than EUR 50 megawatt-hour, or 5 cents kilowatt-hour. It is affordable for both Estonian households and small producers by compensating producers for the price of CO2 and, again, it is not necessary to communicate and settle with consumers and submit applications, but to producers, and this is the money that producers themselves have to pay. So there is no need for additional state budget subsidy in this circle either. A temporary reduction in VAT from 20% to nine, affecting both electricity, heat and gas, is again a measure that concerns both heat consumers, gas domestic heating and electricity. So a sensible solution very practical, quickly realised, in accordance with European Union law. A number of other European countries are using similar systems. I have not received an answer as to why it is not even seriously considered or discussed. That is how we are in a situation where the government is in the process of implementing two parallel compensation systems for consumers. One is a very bureaucratic, unsuccessful and unfair system of subsidies, which will never work as originally conceived. I think it's too much for a lot of people. Local authorities interpret it very differently and therefore people are also in very different situations. And the other one, which has been said very much, that an agreement was finally reached in the coalition. An agreement has now been reached. But what was agreed then is that we do not know, because there is still no regulation. And why 12 euros, why not 10 or 7 euros? Seven euros was an example of Norway. Here I want to get rid of the Prime Minister's half-sister or, in fact, a lie, that in Norway, you see, seven euros of ceiling, but a much shorter time, but we have seven months. Let me remind you that we have this EUR 12 price cap, this measure, which has been agreed and which has not yet actually been agreed, that we will only implement for three months, as the Prime Minister said here today. From January to March. That we take an example and put it together with another measure, and then, half-demagogically, we try to explain it and protect it. It does not extend to district heating, and it is also discriminatory in the sense that families with children are treated in the same way as a single person. So you're one person, 650 kilowatt-hours is the maximum limit, or you have a family of seven and six children, exactly the same limit. It's not reasonable and it's not right. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So I cannot talk about these shortcomings, but I hope that the government will still find strength, review and treat these target groups more fairly in the future Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U88	Thank you. I would now like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U89	President-in-Office, the President of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Colleagues! We are talking about compensation and certainly compensating is something that the people of Estonia urgently needed and seriously waited and waited longer than would have been fair. But you finally waited. But it is not a question of compensation, because compensation can be a temporary measure or temporary measures. The question is what will become of our energy policy in the long term and not in the too long term, but in the coming and reaching perspective of people. It's very nice to talk about how we're building a wind farm in the Gulf of Livonia. Great, renewable energy, clean energy. Only if we look at what it is exactly, this wind farm, it is a giant windmill like the Tallinn TV Tower in the middle of the sea. And there's hundreds of them. Their production, their installation, the cost of their material. What kind of footprint does that leave? I have never seen anyone point out, in comparison to fossil energy production, what kind of footprint leaves the creation, establishment and exploitation of one giant windmill. I've never seen one. Maybe I'm not well-informed enough. But I haven't seen it. Go on. It's all a horizon. Horizon, as we know, is always shifting further as it approaches. I'm afraid that these wind farms, too, are moving further and further, because yesterday, when someone looked at the "Actual Camera," they saw how local people are already mobilizing against this Gulf of Riga wind farm. And with perfectly understandable arguments. I am not very convinced that these people are being brutally run over because we need to solve our energy problems. I'm not sure these people are gonna make a rough run over, which means that the horizon is moving further and further and further. So what's the key question? The main question is, in fact, the price. If the price had stayed the way it was a few months ago, it wouldn't have been all that panic. But the price increased sharply. What have other countries done? It is very nice to talk about Norway's example of compensation, but perhaps you should take this example more seriously, which comes from France, where a price cap of EUR 42 per megawatt-hour was set. And they just did it right away. That's it. The state will pay for it. Administration much less, the price acceptable, until the problem is resolved by other means. And I think that the answer to our question is: we must do the same. Set a price. As I asked before, it could and should be somewhere in the order of 35 euros per megawatt-hour. It would be acceptable to people, it would be manageable. But we've gone a whole different way. Now, more broadly than energy policy. In energy policy, we are actually in a unique situation, and if we were not the ones who have been told who the Lord wants to punish... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U90	Three minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U91	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U92	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U93	...that's where he takes his mind first. We see a classic example here of the Lord's trying to punish someone, he takes away his mind. We were taken away from our minds with all that green turn propaganda, all that Püxit, all that old well... The main bear sat on the wells, but fortunately it didn't hurt. We did some trouble, too, on an old well. And now we're in the situation that some of the trouble we've done, we've closed some things down, we've created some sort of special regimes here, and so on and so forth. And we're in trouble. But we're in a unique situation, we have enough oil shale. We can continue with oil shale energy until these wind farms, solar parks, cogeneration plants and so on exist. There is. But we haven't even started doing them right, but we're already doing Põxit, we're already raising prices, and then we're talking about some kind of market economy. Look, once again, a little experience is needed. I have a bit of it, I've even been to the market to sell, right here in the central market of Tallinn. I sold chickens and geese and cucumbers and tomatoes. And I saw what the market was. Market economy! Next to you, someone sells geese and chickens and cucumbers and tomatoes, and then you have to see if you have any prettier or worse. And what do you charge for how you stay in competition, how you get rid of your goods? It's exactly the same with the electricity. But we don't have a market. We don't have a market! What market is it if Finland is five times cheaper and we buy it in Finland, get electricity and sell it five times more expensive. Where's the market? There's no point in talking about the market. And that is why we have made concrete proposals. We support, by the way, the Fatherland's idea of reforming the energy market completely unconditionally. This is a very good idea, and it should start right now, tonight, because it will take time until we agree on principles and so on. It all takes time. But it is also possible to promptly, quickly, resolutely, macronically resolve issues by suspending participation in the stock exchange, stopping CO2 trading participation, introducing a price cap, starting immediately, today... Brothers Voices are sitting in Paldiski and deep in the palms of the parties all the time, so we can start LNG terminals, so we can have a capacitate to bring LNG from the west, which here we can use to meet our energy needs. Instead, we are talking about compensation, instead we are talking about collecting taxpayers' money and distributing them in small amounts. Of course, it is some sort of solution, of course it will temporarily calm people down. Temporarily. But believe me. At some point, this calming down, this inertia is running out. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And then you are, a respected coalition, just like you were a week ago in front of a broken trough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U94	I now ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair in Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Well, if we can draw conclusions on the electricity market from our experience of selling geese in the central market, it is difficult to reach the right conclusions. But it'll be a good story. The previous speaker said that he may not be well-informed enough, and this self-critical remark is true. I wanted to enlighten you, ladies and gentlemen, that when it comes to the environmental footprint of windmill production, it has been assessed very thoroughly, much, often in different contexts. The average result of the various studies has also been confirmed on the basis of the calculations of the International Climate Panel in 2014 and this says: The environmental or climate footprint of wind generators or wind power is 11 grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt-hour, which is 99% less than on oil shale. It consists 30% of steel, or the building of this tower itself, 17% of the concrete foot is predominantly concrete feet, although there are different structures on the seabed, where they are actually being developed at the moment where they could be floating. But, well, let's say, as an average of 7% concrete and 12% there are different fibers that are used in blades. But what's really important is the mean, so you're going to disperse it over the period. And the reason he comes in with such low CO2 emissions, of course, is because he's fuel-free. Perhaps this single production of CO2 is its only footprint and after that it will continue to produce electricity for us without emission. So 99% compared to coal and oil shale production, this footprint is smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U96	Thank you. No more calls right now. I am closing the negotiations and this has been answered by an inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U97	We will move on to the second inquiry by Riina Sikkut, Helmen Küti, Jaak Juske, Indrek Saar, Heljo Pikhof, Lauri Läänemets, Kalvi Tõvi and Raimo Kaljulaid, members of the Riigikogu, on 15 December 2021. The request submitted is to mitigate the effects of the shock on electricity prices and it bears the number 102. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the question. Heljo Pikhof, the representative of the heirs, whom I would ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to give an overview of this inquiry to the public of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! On December 7, last year, a number of record hits. The average daily price per kilowatt-hour of electricity reached 46 euros and nine cents, and an absolute price record was set on that day: over one hour the price of electricity exceeded one kilowatt-hour of electricity. These prices quadrupled over a year will be supplemented by 20% VAT for consumers. Much has been said about the causes of the problem in recent months and I will not stop at them again. We assumed that the government would not leave the cost of manipulating the price of gas and of making mistakes in energy policy to ordinary families, who could not do anything to prevent their economic blows. Since this did not happen, we submitted an inquiry. More than a month has passed since the submission of the enquiry. At the beginning of January, people received their electricity, gas and district heating bills. The Prime Minister has informed us that his parents do not need help. That's very nice, of course. Unfortunately, not everyone has done so well. The rise in energy prices has plunged many people into coping difficulties. The Government of the Republic has made two rather unsuccessful attempts to mitigate the price shock. The first measure, which deprived the help of middle-class families who were hit hard by price increases and forced half of the Estonian people to ask for subsidies behind the doors of parish houses and city governments, showed when people who are aliens have come to run the country: launch a programme where a tenth of the cost goes to administration, where dozens and dozens of officials are needed to process applications. At the same time, we are reminded of rescue officers and district policemen who have been released for cost savings. It's hard to put into words. And all this in a situation where the country has data on people's incomes and electricity and gas consumption. Last week's planned measure will provide assistance to people who heat their house with gas but will literally leave those who do so with electricity in the cold. Sixty-six kilowatt-hours doesn't even heat up a small apartment with an electric radiator. Given the current January prices on the power exchange, the amount of support for electricity-fired generators will be just under EUR 20. The question arises as to how effective such assistance is for people whose electricity bill in December turned out to be a minimum wage. The consumers of district heating are completely forgotten, as if there were no people living in apartments. The gas price multiplication has also been reflected in the multiple heating bills. What is the government's help to them? You could say it doesn't exist. The Social Democrats have offered a helping hand and made a number of suggestions to the government on how to soften the crisis for the people of Estonia. We recommend that they be seriously investigated. This will help in the future to avoid the bucket column that will send the government's current energy price rise mitigation programmes. And we have asked the Prime Minister six questions in our inquiry, and we are also hoping for answers to further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U99	I now ask the Prime Minister of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Kaja Kallas, to answer this question, which is No 102. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U100	Thank you. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! All right, I'll answer the questions. The first question: "There are always acceptances and critics for all kinds of political choices. What is your assessment of the current action of the Estonian Government in mitigating the shock of energy prices? " The answer. We have reacted quickly and effectively to mitigate the rise in energy prices, the first decisions we made already in October 2021 and the last one last week. The amount of support measures put in place by the government alone is already 325 million. As of now, Estonia's programme to support domestic consumers and businesses is one of the largest, longer-term and wider support programmes across Europe. And I would like to rename the measures: the reduction of the electricity grid fee by 50%; the abolition of the gas network charge at a total cost of 25,08 million; the targeted measure for households with income per capita below the median wage of around 80% of the energy cost increase, including electricity, gas and central heating; the exclusion of excise increases; in addition to the price cap for households with 12 cents per kilowatt-hour of electricity consumption up to 650 kilowatt-hours; it will be deducted from the cost without any request; the price cap for households with a price cap of 65 euros per megawatt-hour; the excess will be compensated by the State to 100% of consumption up to 2.75 megawatt-hours; and for business customers with 100% of the electricity grid fee. The second question: "In a situation where electricity is a stock exchange and the price is formed as a result of demand and supply, the people and companies of Estonia will inevitably get a share of both low and sometimes very high prices, as you have explained to the public so far. Is it the responsibility of each person and company itself to hedge the risk of high energy prices? Can the consequences of systemic problems such as the slow development of renewable energy capacities, the impact of geopolitical decisions on the supply and price of natural gas, the small number of transnational electricity transmission interconnections be changed by individual consumption decisions? " Of course you can't have them. They can be influenced by the state in its decisions...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U101	Good waitress, I'll apologize. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please! One moment, mike please! Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U102	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. I have a question as to whether Kaja Kallas has really received the question that we are currently dealing with in this Chamber. The question is that on the first question, the Social Democrats asked how you assessed the Estonian Government. This is a very simple question, but the answer says what measures have been taken. I'd like to know what Kaja Kallas' assessment of the government's performance is. I haven't heard that answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U103	Got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U104	Is it still the same text?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U105	I thought you had a technical problem. But the inquiry is submitted, the prime minister responds, answers and then we can ask. So the prime minister responds to an inquiry, like I said, which is 102. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U106	I was in the middle of an answer. The government wants many people in Estonia to be helped by measures to mitigate the rise in energy prices. Therefore, the fast-track support measures are substantial, long-term, comprehensive. Individual responsibility is the household, family-level decisions on which energy source is used for heating, the behaviour of energy use and the energy package to conclude with the seller. These decisions are made by an individual and, in making these decisions, the individual directs its consumption behaviour. Question three. "As an instrument that should enable the market to balance supply and demand, the price can work freely if a person is able to avoid consumption or switch to substitute goods. Does the government consider electricity consumption in Estonia to be avoidable or substitutable? If it is not avoidable or substitutable consumption, why does the Estonian state cause people and companies to bear the consequences of high prices? " The answer. In today's normal living standards, electricity consumption is not avoidable, but it is possible for household, family-level decisions to guide the amount of energy consumed. Question four. "The public has long had a "plan" expectation. Decisions on vaccination plan, green reverse plan, energy price shock are requested. Why has this expectation not been met both in terms of the completion of the plan and its public communication? Why is there an ongoing response according to public opinion? " The government has rapidly put in place support measures for people who are sustainable, voluminous, long - term and extensive. Therefore, the phase of the plan was skipped when the measures were implemented. Question 5: "The argument for accessing cheaper energy is the creation of additional fossil-fuel-free production capacities. In the meantime, the impact of price shocks on consumers must be mitigated. How do you see that it is possible to find support for the green turn in society and to make the changes needed for the environment in the Estonian economy and society, if people believe that the state promises to meet Europe's ambitious goals, but the damage or burden of the change will be borne by them? " I agree with you that the increase in renewable energy capacity will lead to cheap electricity on the market, because if wind power producers are able to bid zero euros per megawatt-hour at close price and, in the case of hydro power, EUR 5 to 15 euros per megawatt-hour, then oil shale and coal and natural gas plants are already at 10 times higher prices: 130 to 200 euros and more per megawatt-hour. In order to be able to increase renewable energy production capacity in Estonia, efforts must of course be made. How do you see that it is possible to gain support for a green turn in society? This is a very difficult question in terms of the green turn that we want to achieve a change in the economic model. An economic model that would give us lasting prosperity, but less harm nature, requires concrete decisions. Now, the decisions that we have already made in particular in the government to overcome these problems. Firstly, environmental protection, how it can work together in the production of renewable energy. To this end, we want to put in place a land-based plan where it will be possible to build wind power production equipment in the light of conservational altitude restrictions. Secondly, this "not in my backyard" problem, which is all over the world, and which was actually pointed out here in the previous question. To this end, we have developed a local benefit element precisely so that local authorities and communities have a more positive view of renewable energy. Now, third, the sea wind parks. For this, we are planning sea wind areas so that it is clear where these wind farms can be built, and this process will move faster. Fourthly, energy storage is key to the green turn. Here too, there is potential in Estonia and the prices of technology have fallen. However, there are bottlenecks that the Ministry of Economic Affairs will come up with as early as March this year. Now, the question of nuclear energy. In developing it so far, the analyses have been on hold for a long time, we want to do them faster so that we can answer whether or not we can and whether it makes sense to build a nuclear power plant in Estonia. And as was the case with the previous question, many renewable energy capacities are behind joining the grid. There are a number of steps that can be taken to accelerate this process, including the inclusion of network development obligations, the inclusion of less than 200 kilowatts of production into the network development obligation, which would speed up the process. And seventhly, the third Estonian-Finnish connection to Estlink 3 needs to be moved forward so that more capacity can be shared between the Nordic and Baltic countries. And by eighth, hydrogen, which is the element of future energy. At the beginning of January, we decided to support the establishment of three European-wide hydrogen technology projects in Estonia, which hopefully will bring additional investments here. So, the sixth question: "The opposition parties have put forward a series of proposals: the suspension of the payment of renewable energy charges, the abolition of network charges for households, the reduction of VAT on households, the creation of a support measure and so on. Do you plan to respond to these proposals and what opportunities do you see for cross-party cooperation on a topic that is important to society? " In fact, we examined, analysed, and consequently came up with the support measures decided by the government last Thursday or by the coalition last Thursday. And then there are the measures that concern both natural persons and legal persons, the measure aimed at households, which I have already talked about, and also the price cap, which is a low bureaucratic or rather zero bureaucratic measure, where no one has to apply for anything, but the household consumer has a price cap of 12 cents per kilowatt-hour on electricity consumption up to 650 kilowatt-hours, and it is calculated on its own account, so the bill is lower according to this. And the price cap for the household customer is EUR 65 per megawatt-hour and the excess is compensated by the State 100% until consumption of 2.75 megawatt-hours. And we compensate business customers for 100% of the network charges for electricity. The biggest part of the increase in electricity prices has been the price of natural gas, and a large part of Europe uses natural gas as an energy source. This is certainly a problem and reducing gas dependency for the whole of Europe is a major challenge. Estonia's gas consumption is not high, but those who consume it will certainly find it difficult for them. So we have already taken these proposals into account and come up with what is to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U107	Prime Minister! Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Aivar Chef begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U108	Good manager! Prime Minister! We can hear all wind farms and solar panels and everyone, they're all going to be developed. I know that for the last 11 years, we have not built wind farms in Estonia for a simple reason: in the Ministry of Defence, an official blocked everything that he had to block. Now we read, a few days ago, that the Department of Defense is also blocking all solar panels, solar parks greater than 100 kilowatts. Do we really want to produce renewable energy or not? Or what? I understand that the issue of wind farms has been resolved today thanks to the decision of the previous government, and in a few years' time this concern will be resolved, but now it is really such bad news that the founders of solar parks have received bad news that there is no point in building a solar park of less than 100 kilowatts. We're building 15 kilos home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U109	Thank you. I didn't actually get what the question was exactly. [[Aivar Chef is talking about the hall.]] I'm not aware of the details that a DOD official would prohibit the establishment of solar parks, in that respect, your claim cannot be accepted as true or refuted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U110	Rocks Hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U111	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister Kaja! That this question had indeed been made back in time, and today the questions may be more topical, just as they were in the previous question. And I would ask it last Thursday, as agreed by the coalition, so to speak, about this package of measures. And I'll talk a little bit longer. That in recent years different messages have been given to the people of Estonia. Perhaps the most environmentally friendly, if there is a chance, to make district heating. The friendliest, most reasonable, go to district heating, if possible, and set up district heating. The second is the so-called possible electrical solutions, i.e. geothermal pumps, after all, and all this side. And third, maybe the gas, which, well, Aivar said correctly, is somebody who knows what's crazyly environmentally friendly, but they don't really think he's really that. If this gas pipeline really goes by there, it's a relatively cheap gas boiler to put on, it's not a big investment. But if you are now making these support packages, then the Estonian middle class family, who has worked hard and put a heat pump on itself, it is as if it receives the least support, and the central heating or district heating will not be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U112	Thank you. After all, this list in itself is very well characterized by the fact that there have been different governments here, you have also been in government, but no one has foreseen that these circumstances will actually change. I still think that central heating is a sensible solution precisely because, from the point of view of pollution, from an environmental point of view, it makes sense when it is shared, not everyone is stomping, but the question is, yes, what energy source to use. This shock of electricity, or the shock of energy prices, has actually hit everyone around the world equally, including the fact that the price of gas has increased so much. Russia has a share here, but no one has foreseen it in this form. As far as central heating is concerned, yes, we have this targeted measure, which also concerns central heating, which, then, below the median, people should be able to cope with these prices. That 80% of this price increase will also be reimbursed for central heating.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U113	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U114	Thank you. I also have a question about these measures agreed last week. Can you explain how these ceilings were fixed? I understand that there is some political compromise, but there is probably some objective reason why, for example, in the case of electricity, it is 12 cents and just 650 kilowatt-hours and why it is 65 euros and 2.75 megawatt-hours for gas. In the case of gas, the average heater, as I understand it, will receive a significantly higher advantage than for electricity, for example. On the basis of which objective criteria have such border choices been made? And the second question in the same context is: how will this automatic billing take place in the case of apartment buildings with a single bill? With regard to these application-specifics, it is clear that the official will assess, but how will he automatically come here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U115	Thank you. If we take the number of pure metering points for electricity, then there are a total of 648004 measuring points, behind them are households. Now less than 200 kilowatt-hours is 371312 households, and then between 200 and 500 it is 131853 households. The average of this house or terraced house should be 650 kilowatt-hour consumption, i.e. in fact, if all of these are summarised, 83% of all electricity consumers should benefit from it. Now, the question about housing associations is very topical in the sense that it is being asked and, in general, it is that all consumers to whom the housing company is billing should then ask for the exact account that applies to them, and the housing company should also be able to communicate with the electricity seller in order to actually make these differences, because they themselves have these differences. The idea is still to help domestic consumers in particular, and the volume limit for domestic consumers is in the place where, as I said, there is, in short, 650 kilowatt-hours, which should help these domestic consumers to a large extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U116	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U117	Thank you. Prime Minister! Here's the question. A person lives somewhere on a 80-square meter surface, he has a couple or three or, let's say, a couple of air heat pumps, and this bill is pretty big. I know one person who's had 700 to 800 euros in the last month. I understand that this system, which you have recently created in the story, allows it to receive only some EUR 20 to 30 from the state. If it's different, please explain to me what it's like.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U118	Thank you. There's two sides now. One is this general measure, which is really to be calculated off the bill, all that exceeds EUR 12 per kilowatt-hour and does not exceed that volume. So this is going to be smaller. If this figure is still so large, it is also possible to apply as a targeted measure for the benefit of 80% of the electricity price compensation for households with a median salary or income. So these measures work hand in hand. Many should be helped by the fact that if we just take numbers again, most people, the 371312 measuring point, have 13 euros on the bill, i.e. 648000 households or measuring points. So, in fact, those who pass over will also benefit from this targeted measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U119	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U120	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I looked at the latest Eurostat data: food prices in the European Union as a whole in the 12th and last month in comparison to last year, increased by more than four per cent, 4.3%, and in Estonia by 6.1%. In households with lower incomes, much of the income goes to housing costs and food, and if there is some left over, it will be fine. Now, in terms of housing costs, we have had an increase for months, we have talked a lot about this here. There is, in fact, an increase in the price of food and of all other goods and services. At the same time, we still have a tax-free minimum at the same place as it was four or five years ago, at EUR 500. Why does the government not support the Socialist proposal to raise the tax-free minimum at least to the minimum wage? After all, we are actually taking tax revenue from those recipients of the minimum wage and transferring back to them through complex bureaucratic measures as support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U121	Thank you. In fact, our proposal has always been to raise the tax-free minimum to EUR 500 for all, which would also help the middle class, which is now hit by these tax humps. So, in fact, making this tax system simple and clear is definitely a value in itself that can go on. As far as the most needy are concerned, there is another measure: this is an increase in income support, which will also help those who need it most.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U122	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I'd like to touch the theme of wind farms again. In today's meeting of the Committee on the Environment, this message was that environmental protection should be provided as an instrument for establishing wind farms. In the nearest question, it became clear that in fact the state should very much specify the conditions under which, for example, a sea wind park could be built. In this case, the developers will take this 150-page package of terms and say, "See you, we'll wait for better times." Is this theme of terms working as a local benefit instrument? I understand that this local benefit instrument is about to come before Parliament, where 0.5 euro cents per megawatt-hour will be paid or 50 euro cents per megawatt-hour in the context of local benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U124	Thank you. This marine planning should solve many of these issues precisely so that where you can build, under what conditions you can build a sea wind park, if that is the issue that is causing it. We have protected areas, we have areas for fisheries, and it is clear that it can be built here and that then the whole gauntlet should no longer be covered by it, which in turn would actually simplify this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U125	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! My question, too, concerns the new support measures that have just been agreed by the government and which have not, in fact, been formally approved so far. My concern is that these new measures are clearly hurting families where children, especially families with large numbers of children, are growing because this limit on the amount of electricity paid by the state does not take into account the number of members of the household. Whether there is one person in the family or five or six people, this limit is still the same. Why are you hurting families with children? Because it may happen that this rather child-rich family does not receive the second benefit related to the median salary. Why are you teasing families with children?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U127	Thank you. Your criticisms, of course, also vary. Only last Tuesday I stood here before the Riigikogu and then your main complaint was why there was no over-out measure. Why is there no way out that everyone can help without having to apply for anything without telling who the household is living with? And now that such a measure has been taken, you will find a new angle of criticism, and now it is why you are not targeting this measure. Why don't you aim for families with children? Now, we have this targeted measure to help more people who need more help, where there are families with median incomes where children are taken into account. So it is completely in addition to what everyone gets, just as there was a socialist proposal and recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U128	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U129	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! You also mentioned, as one possible solution, that if Estlink3, you have to go ahead or be done, it will make it easier for us. I was just looking at the way our electricity is moving in real time. And if I look at the fact that we are now entering 1.03 gigawatts from Finland at a time when Estonia is going to Russia in 840 megawatts and 78 megawatts from Estonia in Latvia, then it seems that we now have only 112 megawatts of energy from 1.3 gigawatts in Estonia at this time. How could this Estlink2 or 3 work help us? Because in this situation, we actually give out a large part of the incoming energy from Estonia, but the price of electricity is still what it is and not cheap. There seems to be some kind of logic error here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U130	Thank you. There must be some logical error in the fact that only 112 megawatt-hours of electricity remain in Estonia. In this sense, consumption already in Estonia, peak consumption is 1600 megawatts. I don't know what this consumption is now, I don't have it all ahead of me. But in this sense, it is now a question of the fact that, on the one hand, as it were, this question as illustrates it well, that if you have proposals, for example, that we close these lines and deliver them separately here. Then, in general, it has not worked so far because we are net importers, which means that we also need this electricity from others. And if we set limits, for example, let's say we don't pay for it any more, like you had at the demonstration, that the price of electricity is zero, but look, this price of electricity is not zero, because the inputs are also costing something, and the result is just that no one is willing to sell us that electricity, which means that the lights are going to go out at all and there is no heat. So in this sense, the 112 megawatts can't possibly be correct, but really, I don't have a chance to control it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U131	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister. I have a relatively specific question: what would be the actions that should have been carried out by autumn, so that we do not repeat the situation that we are now and where we have to allocate very large sums of money from the state budget for so-called targeted support or not targeted support? When we get to September 1, 2022, what will the government do to avoid today's situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U133	Thank you. As you know very well, of course nothing happens in energy overnight. Therefore, it cannot be expected that some new power plant will be up by September 2022. But what are these solutions, like in the medium term, or in the short term? One is the same electricity market law that is currently in the process of being amended. There should be at least two things. One is that you can actually enter into fixed-price contracts at a lower level. They should have been made longer for that. And the second is the question of the connection points, which could actually get those renewable energy capacities moving from behind the stump. We also have negotiations with our partners, which we can still do. When we talk to Finland, for example, about the transfer or bottleneck fee or the risk mitigation element that must be agreed upon with them. But it'll probably happen by the beginning of the next year, 2023. So, yes, unfortunately, I do not have very simple solutions for you in the very short term. That's the negative side of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U134	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When a driver's driving test student confuses the colors in the traffic light or rips off a couple of telephone posts, it is clear that he or she will not be given permission to drive. At the moment, the Republic of Estonia is still under your leadership. I think there's a lot of phone posts you've been running around. The latter is because you did not know how much the energy produced in Estonia by Eesti Energia costs in Narva Power Plants, which is 30 euros megawatt-hour, cost. Question: when do you intend to resign? And if you don't want to do it well yourself, there is no courage to do it, do you need the help of the Riigikogu or of the people on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U136	Thank you. Of course, your own knowledge isn't glowing, but we're probably not gonna go into it. I don't know what I'm gonna say, it's not gonna give you any satisfaction anyway, so I'd rather not answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U137	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! On the previous question, I started with this question, I asked about entrepreneurs. In Estonia, especially in rural areas with these electricity bills, small and medium-sized businesses, family businesses are really - really in trouble. And it's not just taking a political pose, it's really a concern. For certain reasons, I am well aware of the state of play, say, in the activities of these smaller, medium-sized companies. You said that there were quite a few problems, you listed why no support measures could be taken quickly for businesses, but that there was a debate going on. Is it also known that you can tell a window of time when you can expect entrepreneurs to have some kind of support measure ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U139	Thank you. I assure you, we do not wish to stall one day with this. Really, this job goes on a number of different levels right now, even if I'm on the remote. If I were to make a promise to you that this would happen within a week, well, it would have been my wish that this would have happened within a week. I hope it will be in this perspective, but that's a promise I can't just give you right now. I'm just saying, yes, we're working on it and we understand that concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U140	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U141	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In Question Time last week, I asked the question that the government was going to discuss raising the level of income support. You said that this would indeed be discussed on Thursday. Now, in answering Mr Kaljulaid's question, you have also pointed out, as one measure, an increase in the level of subsistence. At today's meeting of the Social Protection Committee, Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo said that if the government comes with an additional budget, this issue will be discussed, otherwise it will be as with many other nice things, as with the rise in pensions and the rise in the base, this will happen next year. How, then, is there hope of an additional budget coming or not coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U142	Thank you. Yes, it is not about the extra budget itself, but it is still about the need to cover certain needs that we cannot cover from the state budget. So first we have to take this decision to raise the subsistence limit and then [to decide] whether this need can be covered by the state budget or whether an additional budget is needed. We did not really have time to discuss this last Thursday, as the agenda was long and thorough. But yes, I can't even tell you when we're gonna discuss this again, but I know the Minister for Social Protection is gonna stand for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U143	Good Prime Minister! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you! I will open negotiations and ask you first, before Aivar Kokk arrives, if anyone would like to speak on behalf of the inquisitors. No, I don't. Then it's open to everyone else and Aivar Chef can start. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U144	Good manager! Dear Minister, On 21 January, the Ministry of Defence gave BNS news: the Ministry restricts the establishment of solar parks for defence reasons. The Ministry of Defence does not coordinate the establishment of solar parks that reduce the performance of the radio system. The restriction mainly concerns the regions of north-east and south-east Estonia, and elsewhere it is a little easier. Unfortunately, as I understand it, the Secretary of Defense has not told the Prime Minister. I have been upset because all the years I have been in the Riigikogu, I have tried to talk about the need to quickly find solutions that wind farms can be built, solar parks can be built. It's been standing for 11 years. The radar reportedly cost between six and eight million in 2011. And today, I think they're finally buying two, 80 million. We are saying that we do not have the capacity to produce enough power. We have entrepreneurs today who want to contribute so that we can produce renewable energy ourselves. We have a lot of small businesses and families who want to put solar panels on their homes. Yeah, it's pretty much easier to build up a 15-pound solar park. But it still takes 60 days to get an answer. It's kind of hopeless from there on out. I have never understood that if I register my home as an entrepreneur, I will put a solar panel, a solar park on top of my roof, I will get the VAT back. But if I do the exact same thing as a private individual, I'll pay that VAT. Although, actually, in both cases, we are end-users. Perhaps the simple solution is what I would offer to the government, that if really homes were to have this 15 kilowatts, which today is such an unrestricted practical possibility that if families still want to save themselves from their energy slavery with renewable energy, that maybe these families would not have to pay VAT, and now it is certainly not such a burden on the country. The other way around, the country wins by not coming, by asking for a long time, to get the country out of the current crisis. I look at the pages of the Ministry of Finance and it is unique that it is written, there is a crisis measure, or energy compensation measure, but it is then written that it is a coalition agreement, not a government decision. Since this is not a government decision, it does not really understand what is finally agreed and how it will be compensated. On the one hand, prices have been set for both gas and electricity, a ceiling, which, I say, is very unfair to those consumers who have bought energy at a fixed price all these years, because they are practically getting nothing back from there. The second is that it is unclear that, on the one hand, there is electricity and, on the other hand, there is gas compensation, that if I don't practically use electricity and I have everything on the gas or vice versa, I have everything on the electricity and the gas doesn't use it, whether I can add them to each other, or if that's so that one can and the other can't. It's not coming out of there, and I honestly, when I asked, I didn't get an answer to that question either. And we cannot say anything critically today, because the government has not finally made its regulation. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U145	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U146	I liked Helmen Hunter's question. We discussed the extraordinary rise in pensions here last week and to postpone this decision for a year. We talked about EUR 80 million. Last week we also talked about EUR 380 million, which we know nothing about today. In the future, the next governments will have to find this money. For what, for who, where, doesn't know. But we cannot give support to people who are currently in difficulty, although this money has already entered the state budget last year as income tax on the one hand, because of the voluntaryisation of the second pension pillar, but on the other hand, because so many people left the second pension pillar, they started paying their 4% in the first pillar from that moment on. Maybe the money's in that budget today. In this time of crisis, we have forgotten our young families. And this is one place where I have a request for coalition partners. You've done interesting and wonderful things. Pensioners will certainly receive help if they do not have very large homes. But young families are practically not getting anything out of this support. I think it's critical. Our country's great task is to support its families. And if now middle class families, just those 30, 35, 40-year-old families who have acquired homes that have leased a car to work, who have children at home, do not get practically a cent of these benefits when they have been so smart that they have fixed the price of their gas and electricity for life, but they get against their pants that they have fixed. Had they been on the stock market, they would still have won, and hopefully from January, both gas and electricity price increases would have been compensated, because the fixed price is the one that is not compensated. And it is sad indeed that, if Estonia compensates for 120 euros from the megawatt-hour, France has almost four times lower and Norway compensates for almost twice the lower one. Thank God, the Estonian state is indeed not among the five richest European countries, but the richest, because the compensation mechanism has reached such a point that our consumers will be able to pay for more expensive energy prices than others, it is in quotes, they will arrive. I am sorry and I hope that, as long as the government has not made a final decision, the coalition will look at these decisions in the face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U147	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I would say today the focus is on the medium-term solution, and if we lose this focus from there, we will actually be back to the same place as we are now next autumn. I agree with you, one hundred percent, that the possibilities to do are much less than a long view, where, in fact, we can discuss various production capacities and, to the extent that we add to the transmission capacities, but really, today I think we should now focus on a 120% medium-term solution that guarantees self-regulation so that there are no unreasonable costs for the budget. And as a result, my question was, and your answers, in themselves, those components that you read, they are all relevant, but they are still insufficient to adequately control this increase in energy prices or, if we take the price of electricity separately from that price of energy. Indeed, the fixed price for some longer period and the provision of greater certainty to producers is undoubtedly one possible measure, but it should not be forgotten that if we take a longer period, you yourself have said it here, if I take a longer period, then in fact the fixed price will be more expensive than the exchange price. And its main advantage is that it is possible to manage its costs in a cash flow at a fixed price. But someone has to pay for that risk, and at least by that risk, he's more expensive to the energy buyer. It is simply a result of economic laws. We can think whatever we want, but that's the way it is. This does not mean, of course, that this fixed price package that you see in the Energy Market Act procedure should be discarded, but it is a message that it is not enough. We need to look seriously at trade in CO2 and we know that, in fact, there was a level in place where it could give an incentive to make environmentally friendly investments, at EUR 25 per tonne. He was more than 30 at the beginning of last year, and at the end of the year he left for almost 90 euros. And it has been speculated that this year it will reach 160 euros a ton. This is all reflected in our energy price, one way or the other. Pretty sure. If, for example, we use electricity produced in Narva plants, today it is the case that there will be an increase in the price and we will actually have to pay for it, unless, of course, Russian gas comes more expensive and creates a completely different situation on the stock market. Now I'm getting to the stock market. The stock market actually needs to be dealt with right away. I am not saying that we should step out of there right now by banging doors, but the stock market must first become transparent. We should find out what amount someone has made at the price. It doesn't make any sense. If it's all public on the stock exchange, it's like a big black box. Why, I'm asking. Why is this one big black box where nobody knows what's going on? It should be the next day or the next day to know exactly who, what volume, how much offered. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U149	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U150	That's the first thing we should do with the stock market. And another, if we have this knowledge, there is no justification why we should not apply weighted average pricing, where then exactly what someone has offered at the price will get there. But it is not the case that one offers 0.1%, 1000 euros megawatt. And 99.9% is well, let's say 100 euros megawatt, then all of us have to pay out 1000. In fact, there should be a weighted average system for setting this price, and that would also provide real savings, a real price would give what it actually costs, this energy. These are his substantive activities, which must also be dealt with immediately. And I'm not really very optimistic that we'll be done with this just by September 1. You, too, said that indeed the so-called bottleneck reward we have to do with the Estlinks, that we would make an effort to reach it by 1 January 2023. With regard to them too, indeed, it should be made that if we do not make it by autumn, at least by the turn of the year, we would have some clarity as to why one way or the other is being done and why no action can be done. These are very concrete proposals that we should address immediately in order for the energy crisis to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U151	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U152	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! So it is that the rise in electricity prices will catch us all sooner or later in one way or another. Through consumption, it will affect us all, no matter how we compensate for the cost of our home or business today. And you don't have to look far for these examples. I believe a lot of ambassadors have been approached. For example, a few weeks ago, an entrepreneur who really has a very large apple garden approached me and he said he gave a very simple and logical example. He said that basically all of December's electricity bill in the vault ate his potential profits by spring. And he's asking, but what am I supposed to do or how am I supposed to hedge my risks? His risk management chain stops there when he distributes these apples from the vault free of charge or takes them to the animals of the forest, because every day they keep apples in the vault there is actually a real minus for the company, leading to bankruptcy. These are the real situations that small businesses are also facing. And you might suggest that he raise the price of four euros from one euro to the price of one kilo, but we know what the answer is. Unfortunately, the consumer's ability to pay for the difference in this form simply does not exist. The real question of this whole energy revolution is that we both know and have agreed that Ida-Virumaa should be subsidised. This change must be managed through additional budgetary resources, the age of the public sector, so that local people can profile their skills and the entrepreneurial landscape in exactly the same way. And on the other hand, if we look where we're going or should go, I think that a pretty good example is the same Gulf of Riga wind farm, which is strongly linked to Pärnumaa, the coastal area. And I think that this way of thinking should be quite similar, that only departure should not be subsidised, but should also be encouraged, subsidised, to enter new areas. This is usually the case when new technologies are introduced. In this sense, I applaud the initiative relating to the local benefit instrument. At one point, it could become a law, and indeed municipalities and bordering residents would receive some compensation for its suffering. But even more really, it should be about the region's competitiveness. And if we're talking about wind farms in the sea area, the other way around, we should be talking about it in the regional key right now. If there is a wind farm in the area, if there are certain effects, then these effects can still be mitigated with some competitive advantage. And this competitive advantage can often be human intervention, the economic impact that the other way around can turn into community wealth. And here I think we have left relatively unsolved that if we do a wind farm, where this line, this cable, this end will still come to land. Can there be a hydrogen plant where this electricity is treated with hydrogen? Could there be large energy-intensive companies who really need this energy? And when we talk about hydrogen, we know that this efficiency is generated at very high temperatures, high energy levels. This is actually a question of exploiting the potential of the whole region. And here I think there is a very big problem that we do not have this strong debate to include this particular investment for the benefit of this community. I do not know whether the problem is that we have become weaker regionally, we no longer have a rural government structure, or the authorities are still looking at this energy thing somehow separate from the world, that it is like a national matter, not our business. I'd like more time. [[The manager will give you three minutes.]] This is, in my opinion, a very strong point of action and a point of thought on how to find this common part of society that energy, energy security including, it is a matter for all of us, not the case of Kaja Kallas in the cabinet as head of the cabinet. Perhaps the time has come to open this debate in Europe as well. If we have questioned the CO2 issue and many countries have done so, perhaps we should strike a balance between the natural environment and the economic environment? We live in dogma today. For example, in the context of the same Rail Baltic, having been at the planning stage, it has been stated very clearly that it cannot be done where the railway was built, because it is a Natura site and the damage to nature is very great in a small section. On the other hand, the answer is that the new corridor, where the forest grows, where there is no man-made effect, where settlement has developed, is that passing through it is much less damaging to nature. My common sense is reluctant to realize that how can it be that a kilometer weighs up a narrowly Natura 20 km of a new path? But everyone claps, says it's very good and that we can't go, there's nothing to do, to Europe. You can only go to court. Such precedents are not allowed, because the environment always outweighs the economic effects. Now, again in the context of wind farms, I have heard here and there that there are cases like this in Europe where a wind farm has been built on the Natura site. Again, maybe it's time to get out of these dogmas' world. We think of ourselves, and then we try to find another clue in this ball of yarn, but it seems that these ball of yarn are growing so big all the time that it never happens in our lifetime. So maybe more of this debate, getting rid of these existing frames, thinking about this national interest, still securing the electricity that is necessary for itself, doing it as green as possible, trying to get rid of this rough footprint in the context of oil shale energy in the medium term, but not depreciating this sector now and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U153	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! We've heard a lot about electricity being expensive. Electricity is expensive in Europe and expensive in Estonia, and so it is, it is an expensive commodity. This is not something we should really talk about, because if we start comparing the standard of living today in Estonia and between other countries of the European Union, unfortunately today and our people are in a significantly weaker position and with lower wages than the ones we are compared with. So this isn't something we should be talking very loudly. But before my question to the Prime Minister about EstLink 3, it was said that, yes, you don't want to break connections, you want to break it, there was some sort of wording. I do not know who you are, but I certainly support the fact that we have energy connections with Finland, Europe and Russia. The more connections there are, the more stable our power grid will be. But coming back to the question I had before, how would that help us? If I look at a page like electricitymap, real-time European energy transfers between countries, we can now see such a thing as 1.03 gigawatts of energy coming from Finland now towards Estonia, with a carbon footprint of 158 grams of CO2 emissions per kilowatt hour. Now let's look at the interesting anomaly, where energy is going out in Estonia today. At the moment, energy goes out to Russia towards 857 megawatt-hours and its carbon footprint is 644 grams of CO2 per kilowatt-hour. So, in fact, we are actually bringing in energy from Europe or Finland with a low carbon content and actually sending out our own oil shale energy from Estonia, at least that is the conclusion. If this is to be rejected or this is bullshit, I will ask the Prime Minister's officials to send me a written statement of reasons. And if you look further at how much we are sending out of Estonia now, Latvia is currently going out with 69 megawatts of this application, and probably oil shale energy, because there are also 644 grams of CO2 per kilowatt-hour. So this is where I can conclude that the energy we are currently buying in this unit of time will remain in Estonia at the circa 100 a little after megawatts. I'm happy to read this letter if someone from the Prime Minister's office would arrange an answer for me to see if I misunderstand something. Then I want to talk a little bit about the windmills we talk about a lot and the sun parks. It is absolutely clear that it does not make sense to keep eggs in one basket. But I am absolutely convinced that from the day the Estonian people start to see several hundred meters of windmills rise, from that day this opposition to their establishment will be greater than it is today. That's a fact. It's a fact, I promise you that. And maybe we'll swallow and find solutions for solar energy, solar parks, and I believe that here, if we support science, we'll get closer and closer to that one day we'll put roofing materials that already produce energy, maybe wall materials, wall tiles or construction structures that store energy. And then they take energy out of that sun. This is where we have to move, and we are definitely moving. But windmills are the one thing we see more of them, the greater the resistance we will surely see with them. And here, in every ten cases, support must be given to those regions and municipalities where we can build wind farms on maritime areas, and, of course, support must also be given to local authorities and people. You can't make it a coercion that you have to come here and that's it. The solutions that support this community and region must be carefully considered. And from here to expand, the same subject with careers. That there won't be any careers until we start paying the municipality specific, decent money that will be distributed to the region and this community and the municipality will see that they get something back from it too. It's not just empty holes and the mineral is moved. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U155	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U156	Thank you. And of course, then let's not face it, that the construction of these solar parks is still pretty high-footed in terms of CO2. We are increasingly reading different articles where we do not really have, or where car manufacturers say that the problem is today. There are no more mineral resources needed to make batteries; their price is only rising. At this point, I want to move on to the fact that I see no other solution today than the construction of a nuclear power plant in Estonia. Of course, we have to move on with this, the government has to push the gas down. The start has already been made by the previous government to start research and move on with it. The process will no doubt take us 15 to 20 years to reach it, but it will have to be dealt with. And, of course, we are talking about the latest and most modern type of nuclear power plants on which we should definitely open the debate in society. This process will take us 15 years on the right, 20 years on the worse, but we need to start moving in this direction and train the people we need for it. For us to have this one day, when we have made a decision, which must definitely be the decision of the Estonian people that we are going to go to nuclear energy and that is one of our future prospects. And unfortunately, if we go on with this, it will fall at a time when we will probably start taxing, if we look at today's positions of the Estonian Government, where we are prepared to support this proposal by the European Union to start taxing our own security and also chips and timber, at first, in cauldrons with more than five megawatts, then it will be exactly the time when, in 10 years' time, we will say in the government, who are the ones who made this stupid decision and taxed our own resources, both peat and timber. So this idea is really bad. Estonia should change its views and not tax and agree to it, but I suggest you go ahead and work and I urge everyone to think about how to build a nuclear power plant in Estonia and where in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U157	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U158	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Time is precious, and I'm not holding your time very much. But maybe some important things that have to be canceled. Today and, in fact, tomorrow, the Committee on Economic Affairs will discuss all of these issues, and I think that perhaps some of these observations are also important to mark out in this Chamber, for example, from today's committee meeting. There was a good presentation by the Banking Union, which pointed out, among other things, that when we talk about energy spending, it often points out that there is a need to increase the energy efficiency of buildings and that it saves energy. But the Prime Minister has rightly pointed out that the cheapest is the electricity that is not used. When you turn off the heating and live in candlelight at home, you can really save something at the expense of electricity. But today's reality is that Estonia will receive €366 million from the European Union to housing cooperatives from 2023, some of which can be contributed to renovating buildings. At the same time, our goal is that by 2050 all buildings should be renovated and energy efficient. According to the Banking Association, it would require between three and five times more money. So where does the money come from? Or we can accept that in 2050 there will be buildings in both Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa as well as in other cities and rural areas, with a large amount of heating costs going to heat up the surrounding air by a few degrees. It is said to support the installation of solar panels by private individuals in the allegedly size of 3.7 million. For example, the Banking Association is of the opinion that it is not really a serious amount, it is not very possible to make households do it in larger volumes, and I would point out the perilous situation that has arisen for the inhabitants of Hiiumaa, where people are not only households, but also entrepreneurs who are thinking about installing solar panels in Hiiumaa, untapped meadows, its economic sense is under great question if you cannot sell the solar energy that you have left behind. But you can't do that in Hiiumaa today. And while I know that this issue is also being dealt with at government level in order to speed up the investments that are necessary for this, it is still a matter of years and years. In short, we all have, I think, in the last few weeks and months in this area of energy, smarter than we were, and it is good to see that so many colleagues have become already experienced recreational engineers, just as we had many amateur virologists. But clearly, the challenges in this area are great and the government has a crucial, huge role to play in driving change here. But what I promised, in conclusion, that I would not hold you long enough to come back is what touched my question: that we are in a situation today in the short term, where prices are clearly going up. As I said, statistics also show, and I think we are seeing price increases pick up. Housing costs have already increased significantly for people, and we all realise that this is a very serious problem for people on lower and middle incomes, whose income is mostly spent on housing, food, essential goods. In this light, we are taking income tax from the recipient of the minimum wage today. This is so strange: we take away this money and then it has to go to the local government, whose activities are financed by income tax, and these local authorities have to hire new employees and create systems and solutions to deal with part of the tax money it pays back in the form of energy subsidies. I would very much like to call on you on this issue, the Social Democrats have, for the second time, introduced a draft on raising the minimum income tax-free minimum to a minimum wage, and I very much call on all good colleagues, other political parties to support this principle. I think that's the right principle. In the case of pensions, we've already gone this way, agreed that this is the right principle. Let us also do this on salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U159	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U160	Honor the President of the sitting! Prime Minister! Good Riigikogu! In our often cold and disgusting climate, a warm room is basically a human right. And it is clear that these surged prices of electricity and gas came to a great many, even most Estonian families can be said to be a very painful surprise. And a lot of families that have just done very well with themselves so far were in trouble. Families who generally do not need state aid, for whom it is an honor to manage themselves, are today in deep trouble with their high electricity and gas bills. And very many of these families do not really go under the so-called first proposed compensation methodology, which then relates to the median wage. At the same time, children often grow in these families, there may be several children and these families actually need state support today. The Social Democrats have long recommended that the government take the example of Norway, where indeed this compensation is automatic, has put a clear ceiling on the price of electricity. After major disputes, the government partly listened to us, and this Norwegian model has indeed been partially implemented in Estonia as well. I was deeply surprised today by the reaction of the honourable Prime Minister or by the answer to my question, which specifically concerned this new, agreed new support measure last week, which does not take into account the number of household members, which actually hurts those families where children are growing, where children maybe more than one, because this amount of electricity that the state is compensating, that is a fixed amount and, indeed, it does not take into account the number of household members. The Prime Minister informed me in a rather arrogant tone that what you Social Democrats were complaining about, you wanted the Norwegian model, you wanted automatic support, now you got it. Honourable Prime Minister! We have a digital state, and this automatic calculation of household members could also be automatic. And I think this new support measure should be complemented and the country should come to the aid of those families with middle-class children who are in trouble today with their large electricity and gas bills. More empathy, Mrs Kallas! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U161	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Prime Minister didn't ask for the floor, so we went over it. I will close the negotiations and with that we have exhausted the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U162	Our third item today is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Helmen Küti, Jaak Juske, Riina Sikkuti, Indrek Saare, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhofi, Kalvi Tõvi and Raimond Kaljulaidi about cutting the hours of the service halls of the Police and Border Guard Board. And as a representative of the heirs, please, Helmen Küttt!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U163	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the watchers of the transfer and the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani! On 15 December, on behalf of the eight heirs, we submitted an inquiry due to cuts in the working hours of the service halls of the Police and Border Guard Board. The service halls of the Police and Border Guard Board in eleven cities will then only work three days a week from this year. In three cities this change had already taken place last year, in eight cities then since that year. As we wrote in our inquiry, the press says that the Police and Border Guard Board reduces the reception from five working days a week to three. And the reason is to fulfill the government's cutbacks. The staff of 11 service halls will be made redundant from the Agency, with 11 employees then. The reduction in the working time of service halls is also justified by the fact that 45% of all applications are already submitted in self-service and the aim is to achieve a situation where service halls receive relatively little and operate through self-service channels, i.e. 70% of applications would go through self-service channels. In the view of the heirs, such a decision on a cut-off scheme will lead to a disincentive for people living in rural areas and a reduction in the availability of public services. In addition, the problem is all the more acute: the quality of e-service provided to people is not good. We are of the opinion that this restructuring will prolong service queues and reduce public service availability. With the same problem, several municipalities, Viljandi City Government and the Council, as well as others, have addressed the Minister of the Interior and also the Government to ask for such a change to be reviewed. It is particularly sad that the reduction in the county public transport service resulting from the government's austerity plans, which has been notified to the local governments by the Transport Board, also undermines the availability of services. And, in fact, as a result of such a government cut-off, the country is moving away from its people. We therefore asked the Minister for the Interior four questions. I hope that the Minister, who will also answer these questions today, will read the question and then give us an answer, because that would save me more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U164	Secretary of the Interior, Kristian Jaani, will answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U165	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the inquiry on 15 December last year by eight members of the Social Democratic Party Group concerning the working hours of the service halls of the Police and Border Guard Board. First of all, I would like to thank the heirs for raising an important issue and to make a brief overview. Since this year, Põlva, Võru, Valgas, Viljandi, Jõgeva, Kuressaare, Paide and Raplas have customer service days three days a week. By the end of the first half of last year, Rakvere and Haapsalu already moved to three service days a week, with Kärdla making a similar change already in spring 2020. In the past, some changes in this area have also been made in the light of changes in the environment. In the example of these three services, we see a clear change very quickly in favour of self-service after the opening hours of the services have been changed. It is important to stress that the possibility of using digitalkiosk is still guaranteed in all services. So, indeed, all the topics that can be done digitally can be used on five working days a week. The aim of the Police and Border Guard Board is above all to encourage the use of self-service and digitalkiosks and, as was the case, indeed the aim is that 70% of self-service would have been used, i.e. everything related to customer service, the volume of self-service would be 70%. Customer behavior has changed. We have seen this, and people are really looking for more and more ways to make operations with the country as comfortable as possible for themselves. Among other things, the customer's self-service is well-accepted and the customer's satisfaction with solutions is high. Services that cannot be provided in self-service, such as issuing documents and PIN codes, will continue to be a priority in the service area. Customers in the hall, customers in self-service, as well as the employees of the organisation themselves, are equally important to the PBGB. On days when customer service is closed for direct customer service, officials process self-service applications. These requests also require the intervention of an official and a review by a human eye pair, in particular due to the compliance of the photograph provided by the person. Two closed days provide an opportunity to quickly and effectively review self-service applications, i.e. even faster and more convenient service to ensure self-service. From August 2021 fingerprints were added to the ID card. As the PBGB takes care of all applicants for documents, including those who are unable to come to the service to give their fingerprints, for example due to their medical condition, this has increased the workload of the PBGB in terms of the number of home visits. PPA officials, for example, are fingerprinting immobilised applicants at their place of stay, and an average of 4000 home visits per year are expected. A home visit will also be made to customers who are unable to visit for other reasons. Such home visits are not lost anywhere and home visits are usually also planned for days off from customer service. Many of the customers live in clearly dispersed areas, which is why the activity is resource-intensive for the PBGB. But it's definitely gonna have to be done to get to all the clients. The changes will also help to increase the salaries of the employees of the service hall more than planned. As I mentioned earlier, one of the target groups for these changes is the organisation's own people, we want to value the work of people who work in this service on a daily basis. The wages of the employees of the service halls are therefore rising by over 20% on average and the total number of employees is 125. At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior and the PBA are developing a number of solutions to help offer the applicant more flexible services and obtain documents more conveniently if they so wish. The goal of the so-called national service provider is that in the future, for example, the service hall should not go to receive the document at all, but such issuers would have more land in Estonia than only the SPA service hall. There were four specific questions in the question, and for the sake of clarity, I will then read them and give the answers. How do you think older people or people with special needs who do not have the skills to use a computer can submit their applications for documents in a self-service environment? Unfortunately, this is where the government's earlier hacker comes to mind, where people could book vaccinations only in the digital story.ee environment. Answer. The issues related to vaccination are certainly better explained by a good colleague from the Ministry of Social Affairs, but since the Alert Centre is under the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I can assure you that the national hotline 1247 has been available to people when booking all the issues related to the corona, including vaccination. And I know that the number where the PSAP has directly helped people register for vaccination is tens and tens of thousands. So much has been helped by the Alarm Centre if the digital service has not worked. Volunteers have also made a huge contribution to this activity at the PSAP. When it comes to the first part of the question, it is important first of all to repeat that access to services does not change for a person. All services will remain open, indeed for three days in a working week. You can continue to do all the things you have done, just really, once again, not five days a week, but three times in the future. No service has left the service. Since it is only necessary to apply for an identity document in the form of an ID-card once every five years, for a passport within 10 years, the customer will also have the opportunity to plan the operation in advance, starting in good time and still wishing to do so in the hall, for example by booking a time to visit the service. As I said earlier, in addition to this year and the following years, the PBGB will make 4000 home visits to bring the service to those who cannot apply in the e-environment or who cannot come on site. No one loses the service due to changing the opening hours of the service hall. On the contrary, since employees of the service hall will be able to make more home visits and to examine more quickly the documents submitted in the self-service environment, there will be a presumption of faster service. Question two: Do you have any data on the use of the internet by older people and people with special needs, which is expected to serve as a basis for implementing the decisions of the PPA's cut-off plan? " The answer. As I said in the previous paragraph, the current changes do not eliminate any service and the target groups mentioned by the respondents can still apply for documents in service halls or through home visits. The aim of the amendments is, above all, to encourage the use of self-service and digitalkiosks for target groups who have the capacity to do so. I repeat, the behaviour of the client has changed, and people are increasingly looking for ways to make operations with the country as comfortable as possible for themselves. I'll give you an example. While in 2017 the share of e-applications was 10%, in recent months we are talking about a 50% share. The best proportion is, for example, in Hiiumaa, where 60% of these applications are submitted via e-services. The third question: "Why does the PBA not accept document requests in a situation where a person comes to the operating room of the PBGB already in order to give fingerprints and take photographs? It is a strange situation that certain mandatory procedures are allowed in the service hall, but to apply for a document, he must go home and submit his application or applications on the computer and return on the day on which he is allowed to apply again in the service hall. " I will answer. I consider it necessary to reject the argument that the PBGB is not willing to accept document requests on the spot. The changes do not eliminate any service and all existing operations can continue to be carried out in the services. True, customer service days are indeed reduced to three times a week, but I very much believe and know that the PBA is humane in this case, and if it is necessary to take the corresponding requests from people when the day is closed, then I think that this option will also be found if, for example, at the same time, these same service providers are not at home. When it comes to applying at home, there may be a situation where the fingerprint does not need to be updated at all, and in the case of a suitable picture, you do not need to go to the service hall until you receive the document. However, if it is now necessary to use the digital kiosk, this activity is generally in a very short order. Here, too, we are looking for innovations so that digikiosks can be in more places than only in the SPA service hall, for example, with different partners outside the PPP. In the case of flexible changes, it is important that no action is lost in the service hall itself. Question 4: "How do you estimate that the decision of the PPA cut-off plan affects the availability of public services in a situation where high-speed internet access has not reached all areas of Estonia? Under the slogan of e-governance and e-services, public services that are extremely important to people should not become unavailable. " I will answer. As far as fast internet access is concerned, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should be addressed first and foremost, but I can assure you that high-speed internet access in all rural areas of Estonia is also a very important issue for me, for which everyone has actually made an effort, both the previous government and the current one, and certainly the future ones. As far as service halls are concerned, I will say once again: no action is lost and the aim is to increase the share of e-applicants in target groups where this potential is strongly present. And who can't come on site, who's in trouble with the Internet, that person's got to go home. So this change will create this opportunity to reach more people through home services. To conclude, the aim of this amendment is, on the one hand, indeed to look for austerity points, but the ultimate aim of these austerity points in this case has been to raise the salaries of those who work in this area at the PBGB. The money allocated by the state budget was primarily intended to raise the salaries of police officers working at the front line. But it is also understandable that other officials need exactly the same increase in wages in the PBA, and in order to raise the salaries of these people, the PBGB must find internal ways to change the organisation, change some activities and channel this money into the salaries of these people. As I mentioned, this wage increase is quite significant for those who work in service halls, it has previously been around 1100 and the 20% increase is quite high for these people. Once again, similar changes have been made in the past, and their aim has always been to make services more convenient for people in the same way, to bring more services into the e-environment. And the big goal is to have at least 70% in the use of e-environment services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U166	And that's where Helmen Hunter begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U167	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of the Interior! Your vigorous and lazy presentation in answering questions gives you optimism, but I don't know if you've analyzed or looked at the situation after three days of opening reception points. I tried today in Viljandi to register the reception time not for self-service, but for the service hall. What do you think was the first time? We can't have a debate here like this, but I'm telling you, the first time off was March 21. The fact that people need a raise is undoubtedly important, and in the letter you say that wages will rise by more than 24%, here you talked about 20%, but it's nice when they rise more. You are in the same government, and at the same government desk, it is decided that service points will remain less open for a better service, as we have heard, and the Transport Board, at the request of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, has announced that public transport services will decrease. Don't they conflict?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U168	Thank you for your question. I also mentioned in my reply that an ID card must normally be applied for once every five years, once every ten years, and can be planned very long in advance. So, if today's question really is when you can get the first time through the booking system, then really, last week I tried it too, in Rakvere's example, it was four working days. Well, that average is likely to vary. But once again: this service will certainly not be unavailable to anyone that it can be booked in advance and can be planned, and in this case, if a person has planned, for example, a document exchange in due time, I do not see today in person the problem of the first free time, for example, to receive a document in March. If this is urgent, it is also possible to resolve such issues as this, so to speak, urgently. So I think once again, not think, but as I said in my answers earlier, no service will disappear, it can be planned in advance. All applications can be submitted today in the e-environment, so in fact a person does not usually have to go to the service today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U169	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question may be a little bit broader. In today's increasingly alarming security situation, all kinds of budget cuts, especially at the expense of internal security, are clearly evil, disrupting our society and can also undermine confidence in the state and government. I wanted to ask what budget cuts in your area have still been made or have already been implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U171	Thank you for your question. These decisions have actually been taken last year. And, of course, in a situation like the one we have today, we must find a very good balance and make wise decisions, which are those places where we can save, which are places that do not affect the safety of people in any way, but are also effective in this view, so that we can raise people's salaries. The government's initial cut-off was reduced, and this is actually a very big deal and it certainly also raised the sense of security within the organisation, within internal security organisations, and also outside people. The salary was added this year, and last year it didn't. At the same time, this salary money went to a very specific target group and it is perfectly understandable that other target groups also need to find money to raise wages and to make 'internal changes', which have nothing to do with 'government savings', but purely with the decision of top managers themselves to find internal resources to raise people's salaries even more than it was possible to do from the state budget. I will give you an example, police officers, an example of raising the salary of the front line, where it was possible to raise the minimum wage of police officers from 1345 to 1415 from the state budget. The PBA found more internal resources there and raised the minimum wage to 1500, the average police officer, the patrol officer's salary to 1606. So the internal decisions of the state budget and top executives helped raise wages more than initially possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U172	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'd like to come in here and give you a little support. I understand Mrs Helmen too, there was contact today. But I practically got the ID card from the Rakvere Police Department today, this morning. I have to admit, I was very upset at Rakvere a few months ago by picking up my son's passport and standing in line for an hour and a half. But a good friend suggested you book an online appointment and today took me five minutes. So it's more of a line and support that even though there were plenty of other people in line. I believe that many of my kind are willing to change their habits on the condition that internal security as a whole does not suffer and that people there are getting a decent reward. Appreciation and strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U175	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U176	Thank you. We have a chronic shortage of policemen, rescuers and border guards, and according to Internal Affairs analysis, it's getting worse. Yet you intend to fire a very large number of people because of the corona, or because of the vaccination, and also because of the austerity. Don't you see here as a threat to our internal security? Two border guard cordons have also been closed: Alajõe and Mustajõe. The last building once cost 15 million kroons and the radar there is as much of you as, well, they're both million today. The Mustajõe cordon was undoubtedly extremely important, and now we are talking about savings of EUR 80,000. So the reason for closing it is strange. But do you think it's normal to put our security at risk because of the government's austerity, because that's what this is about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U177	Thank you for your question. I'm moving forward from the back. When we are talking about positions along the eastern border, it is important to note that the border is guarded by people, not by houses. Those people who guard the border daily have not been as many as they have today. So border surveillance certainly doesn't get any worse than when there's less real estate along the border, all the more so that radars and everyone will continue to work. There is a great deal of technological progress and very much can be guarded by different technical means today, but this does not mean that there could be fewer people in the border surveillance perspective. So once again, it's not the real estate that's guarded, it's the people that's watching and doing the good work. As far as vaccination is concerned, vaccination is today mandatory for all staff on the basis of a risk analysis in the PBGB. As of today, 34 people have been released because they have not been vaccinated, and 38 have been appointed by the court for initial legal protection and, if it has not already been resolved by the court, during January, I know the different deadlines were, where these initial legal protection solutions also come. Vaccination will certainly help, and I urge everyone to be sure that they are vaccinated. Vaccination helps you to avoid being hospitalised because you suffer less easily from this disease, and this is certainly a very important security issue. As far as people working in the field of internal security are concerned, of course, these people need to be kept and need more. With regard to the review, it is also extremely important to point out that people contributing to internal security are ageing with terrible momentum. Nearly a third of both police officers and rescuers could retire in the near future, and more people are really needed to replace these people. According to today's plans, 165+ more people from the National Defence Academy come from both vocational training and higher education. So, of course. But I also stress that those people who are working today also need to be kept and valued, and here is the question of what kind of salary we can pay. We found very large sums of money in the state budget to raise people's salaries in internal security, so by saving them, so in the police, especially at the minimum level where this salary was the lowest, the people of the Emergency Response Centre. Institutions, both the Rescue Board and the Police and Border Guard Board, also found internal opportunities to raise even more people both at the front line and at subsequent wage levels where no money was provided for wage increases from the state budget. But these people, too, cannot fall behind in terms of the so-called average wage, so this is an equation with a number of solutions that are poor. But you need to find balance points to keep people on the one hand and also find money to pay salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U178	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U179	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Yeah, I read your response here to Viljandi City and Rapla Municipality. And well, here's about as positive a story as you're saying here. Unfortunately, there is no real life, not exactly what you're talking about. I have a simple question for you. Please, yes or no. Do you really think that the availability of services is as good and nothing will change, as you have already cut here for a long time now, in case the availability of services at the point goes from five to three or is already gone, and in a situation where the person does not receive the service on Saturdays? You're either yes or no, you're absolutely convinced, yes, availability hasn't gotten any worse. Thank you. Either yes or no, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U180	Thank you. The service will not deteriorate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U181	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U182	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You described this home visit, and that's great. Did I understand correctly that you also said that the services that are now here, perhaps the older people of IT awareness, are not, that it will be possible to do so in the course of your home visit, to give it to the elderly person, which, after all, gives the impression that he is, in fact, either you will be there or we will be there for you. And it may not normally be possible to say that there might be this, say, abuse, we know that half of the Estonian people have taken themselves into some kind of disability simply because they may not be able to go to work and get the benefits they have. But you have to treat everyone equally. How does this visit and the services provided there? I like the idea, but when you save your money, it seems to be spacious. Shouldn't it be some kind of private company?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U183	Thank you. Home visits are nothing new, and they have been done in the past. I will give a simple example that the passport had to have fingerprints on it earlier, and if, for example, a person was in a hospital, in a nursing home, he was unable to move himself, then the PBP went to that person and grabbed those fingerprints there. Now, on the basis of one of the European Union's directives, there is also a need to take fingerprints on the ID card, so to speak, and this number of home visits is increasing. And, of course, if the people of the PBA carry out home visits anyway, of course, it is also possible to have this service in their home visits, for example, to help an online person submit this application, to help an official do it, I don't know, to take a computer to the place, to agree with a local government employee, a social worker, and together, for example, to help a person do it there. So, yes, so it is that during these home visits, these services can certainly be carried out more widely than only by occupying a person's fingerprint or taking a document photo, for example, in the same way during a home visit if a person is unable to attend.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U184	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U185	Hello, honored waitress. In 2020 the National Audit Office stated that the Police and Border Guard Board estimates that around 350 to 400 officials will leave the service until 2030 more than they will be from the National Defence Academy. And then it was said that, due to the turnover of the workforce, there will soon be more than 100 rescuers a year, but half the number of people who want to take out of the labour market is half the number of people who want to be rescued, some 50-55 per year. With regard to narrowing down the same cuts and services, is this the situation described by the National Audit Office in 2020 how it will be as of January 2022? Do we still have the same problem that hundreds of policemen will be missing in Estonia over the next 10 years? How do you see it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U186	Thank you for your question. As I said in a previous reply, one third of the rescuers, one third of the police officers could retire today. Indeed, today the National Defence Academy produces fewer people than is a national training order for the National Defence Academy, for example. Here for this year, and for next year, I have found additional resources in the area of Homeland Administration. For example, there are two additional study groups coming from the National Defence Academy, which is actually quite a contribution in order to fulfil more of the national training order given today by the institutions. So, in fact, this situation this year, and also in the coming years, is slightly improving when we talk about how much the Academy of Home Affairs teaches police officers. So here I have made decisions, decisions within the realm of government, found money, and the capacity of the National Defence Academy in the coming years is a little better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U187	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U188	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The subject of today's inquiry is cuts. The cuts that the current government is making in a row and in a row at the expense of our people's daily lives, livelihoods, security and services, but also at the expense of health and lives. The news just came out that in your jurisdiction, 60 rescuers were fired in the name of austerity, and this has just damaged the operational capability of the rescue. The rescue service, which was so far closer and more accessible to people, moved further away from them. It was communicated to the public as an opportunity to raise the wages of the rest. And indeed, as a result, the Minister of the Interior was able to raise salaries, including the salary of senior police officers, including the Director-General of the PBGB, to EUR 6300. Three senior officials now receive EUR 5000 from the taxpayer and some more EUR 4500 or EUR 4800. How will another increase in the salaries of these already high-paid officials help to increase the internal security of all of us, to eliminate fires, to save lives and to mobilise 60 rescuers who received only 900 euros on payday, to save money for the state budget and, for example, to increase life-saving capabilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U189	Thank you for your question. I will also disprove your information on which you started your question. No savior, no 60, no 40, no 50 has been fired, and no such purpose exists. When we're talking about the operatives, it's not the operative who reacts directly to a rescue event. That's what rescue crews are for. The Rescue Command Network will continue to be what it has been since 2012. The rescue command network will not change, it will remain the same number and, together with the voluntary command teams, will ensure a common rescue network. When we talk about the operatives whose aim is to respond generally to third- and fourth-level rescue events. Here I say that 98% of the rescue events will be solved by our rescue officers under the leadership of the team's parent. If we are now talking about the fact that in the future there really could be fewer operational groups, or order groups, in Estonia. Such changes have been made in 2011, 2016 and now in 2022. The Rescue Board has reviewed such a governance structure every five years. At the same time, for example, the number of operatives in Jõhvi, Pärnu, Tartu, Tallinn will increase. This is because these events are concentrated in these regions and indeed there are places where the number of operational controllers is decreasing. Once again, it has nothing to do with immediate first reaction, it has nothing to do with commandos, it is a review of management levels, and all people have new posts inside the Rescue Board structure. That is the goal that is definitely being taken forward. So this information of yours, that everyone is being laid off, isn't true. With regard to managers' salaries, what salvation does in its organisation is certainly not enough to move money from there, for example, to the pay rise of the leaders of the PBGB. But what you can deny is that the salaries of top executives must be competitive, and that is not only about top managers in the PBA or the Rescue Board, but also about middle managers in the same way. For example, if we look at Fontes' salary surveys from 2018, for example, we are talking about the salaries of top managers, then organisations with 500+ people working, for example, could be EUR 9000+. So, in the area of internal security, there are a number of institutions with more than 500 people, but, of course, this salary number is far from what the Fontes salary survey actually shows.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U190	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You're a little behind in your vaccination spells. The head of your party has expressed a different opinion in the press, I suggest you communicate with him. I would also say that the current director-general of the police would certainly not have resigned if this increase of EUR 300 had not taken place. But now for the reorganization of the service halls. How many employees had to be released to put in place this new work organisation and to raise their salaries? Can you possibly say numerically? How many employees did the former Citizenship and Migration Board have before this new organisation, and how many are there now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U192	Thank you for your question. In this area, the circa employs 125-130 people. In carrying out this change, the PBA prefers natural turnover, i.e. people move away from their jobs, it is a natural turnover that is going on every year anyway, and simply does not take a new person's place and this position is lost. If there is now a situation where, through natural turnover, people have simply moved away with so-called voluntary turnover, we are talking about 20 employees in this field in the PBA.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U193	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U194	Thank you. Dear Minister, This is my colleague, Helmen Hunt, answering his question, that a person has to plan ahead, because he has to get a new ID card and so on, but people don't plan ahead that they will lose it or be stolen, whatever it is, they need a new one. But you can also answer that, how it works. But my ears were all about the increase in Tartu, I'm from Tartu, the number of operatives. Has crime increased significantly there? That's one thing. And the other thing is that it's dark that many municipalities and let's say that there's a part of the city here in Tallinn where there's no more lighting like before, and it's kind of scary. Now, if there are fewer operatives, there's a feeling that no help is available and crime is growing. Has crime increased in Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U195	Thank you for your question. The Rescue Board's operatives are not directly involved in responding to criminal events and are not, in fact, immediate responders to rescue events. Like I said, 98% of rescue teams are responding. That when we're talking about the operatives, it's a third and fourth-degree rescue event that these people should be responding to. It is true that the various regions of Estonia, well, Jõhvi and Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu, then the rescue events have risen there, and that is why we are bringing in the operatives, because there, unlike other regions, this is the number of third- and fourth-degree rescue events has risen, and that is why we are raising the number of operative officers there. It has nothing to do with crime or crime statistics. As regards the view that either street lighting burns or does not burn in local governments, I have said it earlier and also in my previous office and, of course, will not back down from the fact that street lighting, light is extremely important when we talk about people's sense of security and whether it also raises any potential for people to carry out activities that require anonymity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U196	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Of course, I wouldn't want to be you to talk black to white. Well, it must be said that there is nothing else for the Minister to do here, nor is there anything else for the heads of office to do, nor is it easy to find their own internal resources and to explain it to their own people. The question here today is the problem of the service halls, but since it got wider and the question was even in your jurisdiction, I also have a letter on the table right now from the rescuers' side and the rescuers' side from the middle-level leaders' side. They are extremely concerned because there are additional tasks. Also, the last press conference, also... was just about to tell us how more tasks are coming, but there's less capacity. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I think we're a little operationally operationally planned, and that's... (Director: Question, please! ") The question is, how do you see the future? Because we can't make it... After all, where are we going when we have to find each year (Director: "Question, please!") internal reserves. What do we do with where we're going with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U198	Thank you for your question. Not all organisations must also be in line with changes in the external environment. Just in very large general figures, that when years ago, 10 years ago, the PBA had, for example, 6600.6800 people, today there are fewer, some 4600.4800 people. Of course, this boundary exists, but the environment also changes. The change in the environment also means that there is a need to shift between services. And, of course, we must also take into account the environment that we have today, both in the nearby world and a little further away. If we are now talking specifically about the issue of salvation, where really the rescuers had more tasks this year, the task of protecting the population, then basically, until last Thursday, the Rescue Board did indeed look for the internal resources and had found them in itself. But on Thursday, we also adopted a decision in the government on the so-called security package, and specifically this action in the Rescue Board will receive very specific fixed funding to recruit such people and make this service work, which concerns the protection of the population, specifically in the area of evacuation. And, of course, those people who, by saving from restructuring, get more tasks, then coming to the task will always be accompanied by an increase in wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U199	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question does not really relate to today's subject, but given the topical nature of the circumstances, I would like to know your answer and your help. On Saturday, a peaceful demonstration was held by the EKRE, where, according to my knowledge, two persons were transported to a police bus in violation of the law. One of them was a drunken character in a red jacket, and the other was an absolutely sober, dark sweatshirt person who tried to provoke disorder among the people, but which, whatever he wanted, remained unfinished because security personnel, who were very good, took him to the police bus. My question. Please let us know who, what was the name of the person, and at what stage his or her procedural steps are in relation to his or her violation and in what criminal or misdemeanour proceedings this is taking place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U201	Thank you for your question. Indeed, your information is correct. Two people really needed to be dealt with, one was a drunk person in front of the stage, and the other was really a person, as you said yourself, provoked and indeed the security staff handled the situation very nicely, and the person was spoken to by the police, later released. I certainly cannot provide you with personal data, cooperation with security staff was very relevant to the police, very good cooperation was carried out, and this is actually the reason why such situations can always be resolved very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U202	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U203	Thank you. Well, the last one you mentioned is a provocator who's been to a number of demonstrations where I've been involved, and I have a suspicious feeling that this provocator has been sent there on purpose, and that's why you can't say his name either. But my question is rather ironic, frankly. Do you have a plan that the current government has a plan that will only be left by the Rescue Board and the managements of the PBGB, and that all this regular work will be done by volunteers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U204	Thank you for your question. The number of volunteers shows the strength of the country, not the weakness of the country, if that is what you want to refer to. The large number of volunteers in the rescue network, together with professional commandos, ensures the entire Estonian rescue network and these volunteers are highly motivated to carry out this activity on a daily basis and offer their community a sense of security. So in a proper country, volunteers play a very important role in providing security services with professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U205	Thank you, good minister. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations, and first helmen Kütt gets the floor on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U206	President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows, transmission monitors, honorable Minister of the Interior! Thank you so much for answering the question. Such a positive, energetic response could also lead to a positive feeling, but somehow it didn't. Rather, there is still concern in the heart. The problem of moving the opening hours from five days to three is all the more acute because people do not have a good quality of e-service. The reduction of the number of police officers, in addition to the reduction of the county public transport service resulting from the government's austerity plans, as reported by the Transport Department, will make the availability of services worse. Tonight, in many cities and municipalities, the streets of the villages are blind, the high cost of energy and saving forces the street lighting to be turned off. All of this makes people feel that the country is moving away from its people. You spoke of the fact that the quality of the service is not deteriorating. And, of course, it is necessary to pay the employees of the service halls a higher salary, they deserve it. For example, people working in a service hall in Viljandi County do their job with their hearts. But it's not normal, if today you're trying to get time in the service room, then it's March 21st. In your letter to Viljandi City and Council, as well as to Rapla Municipality, you have given examples of how people have started to use self-service more. Well, they're in front of the inevitable, there's nothing to do. Secondly, the fact that you have said that the aim is not to exterminate small places is not to close any service, but in the same letter you are saying that not everything can be done in self-service, such as issuing documents and PIN codes. Issuing PIN codes is very important, but the time you can register for admission is 21 March. When you listen to all of this, you get the feeling that one hand doesn't know what the other one does. People, especially in remote areas, living in regions, have been left to cope on their own in the run-up to cut-down plans. I don't know how much and how the home service is done. It is important to examine how many and under what conditions the employees of the PBGB are willing to go home to provide this service, for example, if there is simply no Internet connection and a person has difficulty moving, but there is no disability. All these questions are, in fact, unknown to people today. Sadly, these decisions have been made for the purpose of cutting. Who can really oppose a raise because people need a raise for good work, but somehow this raise doesn't seem to reach the people who actually do this hard work every day. So I thank you for the answers, but the heart wasn't satisfied. Well, then we'll have to see how these things work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U207	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U208	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good workmates and people who will look after us later, because on-line is probably not all watching at this point! Well, now I think I've figured out what's going on. At first, I wondered what the problem was. But if it turns out now that in Viljandi City the police or the self-service will only be available in March, I will be honest with you that first I thought it was a very open door to climb in. After all, both the Social Democrats and the Reform Party have said that we want four days a week, the police have been more agile than three. But really, what this person, let's say, is sitting there now, I imagine, he drinks coffee, it affects his kidneys, right, then he solves crossword puzzles, he's been away with all these news, he shouldn't be hanging out on the Internet. But he is because he isn't. I myself have two experiences. The last one was exactly last week, the cell phone ID ran out, then it turned out I had to register somewhere with my real ID card, but real ID-card PIN codes, where I can remember them. And when I was talking to a person over the phone, and it all seemed like a crazy cadet. And then, when I called the information line and I got read all that I had to do, I asked if I couldn't do it in one day, he said he could. It did. So I had five euros with me to pay the state fee. He said, yeah, if you want to pay cash, you're going to go there, you're going to pay and you're going to take the order number again, but the card terminal on the spot, I said I'll pay by card. It was okay. 45 minutes later, I was back here. Taxi put it there, hips-hops. It was all there. This communication is actually what needs to work better. Last time was 2019 and the foreign passport, then people also said that listen, you are there in the Riigikogu, maybe you can say that the 16-year-olds can pick up their travel document themselves. Perhaps it is not necessary for a parent to take the time to go there. Good Mart maybe talks about these problems and things, and all that initial concern that was there was maybe the fact that, yes, the rescuers said, it doesn't make sense when you go check on those smoke detectors, and then when there's a signal that the house is on fire, that shut-off can't go because they're already busy. Or they do this kindergarten preventive work. There's gotta be some volunteer actors in kindergarten, because they can go to kids better, and I don't think anyone of us remembers if the uncle who saw us when we were five years old was a squirtman, actually works as a squirtman, we'll take it, won't we? And the smoke detector doesn't have to go then, even though I admit the policeman has a good eye at home, he immediately notices everything that's being harassed, abused or anything else, right? But now it turns out that it takes three months to wait for these home visits. Here we should have so-called integrated this work with our social work. We've actually added these tasks, and the rescuers are doing police work, police are about to do rescue work. Doctors do their thing, we gave it to social workers. We've all fucked up like Kört-Pärt's shirt, but I think it's because a lot of people have to justify why they work in this job, and it's those who are not on the front line, and that's why it comes out with extremely new solutions and want to think that something is there. When I hear that more tasks and responsibilities are now being assigned to the spraying men, it's kind of too much. So a good, reasonable state would keep people prepared for this one thing and then these other people would be supporting staff, but not that everyone would do everything. Then we could do Saturdays like this, and that's a good question. Maybe when your document is out of date, but you work in Finland, how you can do it. Let me give you a simple example. There were three pharmacies in a small town, and all three pharmacies are open from 9 a.m. to 5 a.m. in the morning, but there are no pharmacies open on Saturday and Sunday. So where is this person supposed to go from working hours? These things should still be like this. I think it would also be acceptable for people, even two days a week, if there were no queues, and if on Saturday there was a chance that if a person came from another place, they would be allowed. Anyway, the mess is even bigger, and, Helmen, if the next time, the real problem is that this waiting time is so long, I would have gotten hit. Right now, I realized three days is short, but four weeks on the job, I'd like to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U209	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U210	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I wasn't going to speak, because as a former chairholder, I feel like a certain respect in front of the heir to the coat, I know what the problems are and how difficult the solutions are there. But I had a very serious ear when the Minister said that the buildings were not guarding the border, the people were guarding it. Why were these buildings built in their time, why were these buildings built on the border of the Republic of Estonia and on the control line, no matter what we call them, much more than they are needed today? But for a very simple reason: to provide people with working conditions so that there is a base where certain technical facilities are located, where certain rest spaces, weapons rooms, whatever. These are the necessary things. So what are we, people guarding the border that they keep in all this bush? They have to go somewhere further now, and all this logistics is much more complicated. So, in this sense, such confusion is not very respectable. And we can't be satisfied with these answers. The answers were revelly and convincingly reported, but as one of the previous speakers said by the Socialists, Helmen Küttt, the bitter taste remained in his mouth because they say black white. An extremely dissatisfied letter or article reflecting their dissatisfaction just appeared on the news. People aren't happy with it, the rescuers aren't happy with it. In fact, the police are not satisfied with this either. During my ministry, just before I left, Chancellor Lugna and I had a plan on the table to harmonise the entire wage policy and the wage system of the Ministry of the Interior. The most difficult of all, of course, for the police, with all these steps and statures and other things, is not going to get caught up in the details here. But we already worked out basically how to achieve it, so it's not the police department, where the rescuers are half-edgers, and let them see how they can handle it. So it's not that it's the Department of Police where the rest of the institutions are poor relatives who depend on the biggest brother always getting the biggest piece and eating even Little Peter's breadbags and then, of course, munch on to his. Unfortunately, I have understood that there is no such effort at the moment to harmonise the pay system and working conditions and everything else. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe it is, maybe it hasn't gotten to us. It would be good if it were. So where do we end up like this? My colleague, Mr Breivel, asked where we were going with this. We didn't get an answer where we're going, but we can see where we're going. The aim is to have as many assignments as possible transferred to volunteers. I fully agree, volunteers show the strength of society, volunteers show the patriotism of members of society and the desire to contribute to the security and functioning of this society. But we can't put all the tasks on the volunteers' shoulders. There must be a strong structure on which volunteers are joined, where volunteers are a supporting force, not the force that is the main element. After all, in my time, it was already a matter of giving sea rescues to volunteers in full. I'm afraid this has more or less already happened. Because it is not about how lightly the fleet was abandoned. Extremely embarrassing story, extremely damaging story to the defence capabilities of the Republic of Estonia. Extremely regrettable, rather than increasing and strengthening the fleet. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U211	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U212	Instead, it was decided to get rid of it and to impose sea rescues on volunteers who didn't, even all volunteer units, at least a few years ago, some didn't have their bases, not to mention that everyone had proper sea-proof bases. We push volunteers, push the police to a large extent to the volunteers. And what do you mean, home visits? Whether a home visit, let's make a comparison, my husband next to me said, does that mean that we say, doctors, surgeons are going to go on house calls, but scheduled operations, heavy operations, they're going to be delayed, online registration and watch if they live, then maybe in a year. You can't do that. There's a total logic error, a total logic error. And if you don't understand this logic error in the Homeland Department and the PB, it's really wrong. The state cannot leave everywhere and leave it on the citizens' shoulders. But the country leaves everywhere all the time. By reducing our state presence, we are nearing a large part of the territory of the Republic of Estonia and we are not serving a large part of the people as an available service on the spot. Well, the excellent example is that at the time when we had a lot of powers, the Republic of Estonia, the young Republic of Estonia, the re-independence Republic of Estonia, was so rich that there was a police officer in every area. There was a police officer in every small area. Soon they disappeared. Now we're even closing down small-town police stations, long time ago we've been shut down, driving somewhere far away. A very beautiful reason is that modern communication and modern life have moved on. It certainly has, certainly, increased operationality, but this does not mean that the savior, the police officer or any other official of the state does not exist in the territory of the Republic of Estonia with sufficient density and for a certain number of people. There's a logic problem here. It's not like we're tightening up. And, honourable Minister of the Interior, saving money on road maintenance has already cost us a whole lot of lives at the beginning of this year. Is saving, is the number of money more important than people's life and health? These ugly accidents where the trucks have crashed, where people are completely crushed, these ugly accidents are because the maintenance of roads does not meet the traffic density and the demands that are necessary to prevent us from having such ugly casualties. That I sincerely knock on your conscience, Mr Minister, I know that you have it, that you in the government fight against these crazy cuts and that you bring people's lives, health and well-being on the table as an argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U213	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U214	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but I have to say that I haven't heard such a non-life story in a long time since I heard an inquiry into the report and answers of the Minister of the Interior. Let's take a look at some of the keywords we were talking about today. No change in availability, no change in availability of services. Okay. From five to three days, we take the opening time of service centres or service points and the availability is not changing; it is as good as before. Unbelievable! You don't get services on Saturdays long ago, you don't get services from the Transport Board, you don't get services from the PBGB. Does the availability of the service really not change? I don't know how those people should get a service that works on weekdays, working days. There is no change in availability. Nobody loses the service. I dare say it will. I'll give you an example on the basis of Rapla County, where Rapla City as such is a county center. We have a lot of people who go to the county centre on weekends coming together from nearby settlements to make their own purchases, both food and other industrial goods that are needed. However, it is not possible to get the service to go through either the car register or the PMA point because it is not offered on Saturdays. But availability hasn't changed, so it's as good as before, the Minister will say it. Customer behavior has changed, there's a reason why we do these things, why we change these things. Of course, the client's behavior has changed. If we shut down the service, the person no longer gets the service, then he goes, cries and goes the other way. But all people, even relatively young people, maybe not as good as maybe, but are not so good at using computers that they can manage to get all these services done. I do not object to there being progress and things change, I fully agree with that. But these things have to be done so that people can get used to it. People need to be pushed so that they have time to get used to it, not to stop providing services like this and then to say that nothing has changed. Or that the aim is to encourage the use of digital services. Oh, my God! We will close the service for two more days, we will close it on Saturday, and through this we will encourage the use of digital services. Let's encourage you to understand this! I can't believe it! The consumption of e-services has increased enormously. If I remember correctly, it was 70%. So, what's to happen? Of course, he grows because people have fewer and fewer alternatives. I remember years ago in Rapla when the then Highway Department, today's Transport Department, wanted to close down a service center or a service station, a department. Then it was the same story that the huge success story, you see, all the places where we have closed down, people have started to walk much less and the use of digital services has increased enormously. Who are we talking about? Of course, a person must somehow receive his service if we make it impossible for him to obtain it physically. Or the fact that you can't pay in cash. Well, are we also calling it something that hasn't changed? Not everyone uses bank cards today or doesn't want to use them, uses cash, but there's no way to pay. He's got to go, run and find that bank, try and make that transfer himself. But we don't even have places in a town like Rapla where he can go to a teller in a bank and make a transfer. I can't believe it! Everyone should draw their own conclusions here, but in my opinion, the claim that the availability of services will not change, from the Minister's mouth to the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U215	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My presentation is not as passionate as my previous colleague, but I understand his displeasure. For my constituents in North Tallinn, the situation got much worse years ago when the PMA office on Sõle Street was moved, long before the current minister, Tammssaare Road. And, of course, people still actually, older people, come to the street and remind me and say bring it back, bring it back here to us, so it's a good thing the country could do. I remember when they took him to Tammsaare Road, I held my head. This choice of location is such that the foot can essentially only be reached by a resident of the lake site and for everyone else it is logistically completely misunderstanding at the place of this representation. Now, digital services. Sure, that's a good thing. Last time I applied for a passport, I got this digital application done, I don't know, in two minutes, I followed the Tammsaare road, it almost didn't take time. It was very convenient, but of course not all people want to and do not know how to use them, and many people find it difficult to use them. But what is really about today's discussion, we need to understand that this broader picture is important. That is what concerns the cuts, and that is what concerns the thin country that we have been talking about not for years, but for decades. In fact, you heard from the Minister's reply that nothing has changed. This statement by the National Audit Office in 2020 that the number of police officers is decreasing and that they are not coming to enough attention, it is very good that the Minister has found ways to increase this order from his own resources, but it is clear that this is not a sustainable solution. That's not what solves this problem for us. The same is true in other areas. We know that there are not even enough family doctors in Tallinn, not to mention outside Tallinn. We know about the shortage of nurses and their low wages. We know we don't have enough teachers. Teachers' salary increases aren't exactly approaching 120% of the average. All these areas and their employees are affected by what is currently happening in the economy. If we really do have a pretty high wage growth here today, the last of which, according to Statistics Estonia, is close to 8%, then the rise in prices is again over 12%. It also eats up wage increases in these areas, such as teachers' pay increases being completely zeroed from current inflation. And we need to understand that security, actually also medicine, actually education in Estonia, today persists in the enormous sense of mission and commitment of the people who work there. And defence, I think. And certainly the people who are in this field, they are real Estonian patriots. I think most do this work because they want, among other things, to be useful to their country. And if it's still okay in peacetime, right now, where we have multiple crises, we actually see that we're breaking up these people. The pay ratio of the rescuers to the average salary is, after all, if my memory doesn't deceive me, here, in the National Audit Office's report two years ago, it was already pointed out that it has deteriorated, which means that the rescuers have become poorer. These systems can't last forever. So, what's this about? All the ministers who have tried to solve it from different political parties are colliding with the same wall, which is also colliding with the social and educational ministers that there is no money. And there is no money because the thin country that we have built cannot guarantee people security, it cannot guarantee security, it cannot guarantee health and education in the long run, that is impossible. And as long as here in the Riigikogu and the government are simply trying to cope with their daily concerns and hiding their heads in the sand, and these great strategic choices are not really recommended, they cannot be made, they cannot be made clear to themselves; this situation only gets worse. As far as security is concerned specifically, we will see, if we have the most serious risk scenarios with regard to Ukraine today, and we see, for example, flows of refugees in Europe, and so on, people will be reminded that we have policemen and they are very important. Three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U217	Yeah, yeah. Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U218	Then everyone will remember that we need police officers very much. Just as two years ago there were a few months in which all Estonian people thought of medical workers with great gratitude. But, like the state, I have not seen any significant improvement in the situation of nurses, for example. Actually, it's not. Let's be honest. And just as sometimes, if there are good results from the PISA tests, we will remember the Estonian teacher, who is not in the best position. And then everyone says yes, it should be better, but nothing happens again. It's like this problem actually. When it comes to choices, what are they? Additional revenues, tax reforms. This cannot be done, because here in the Riigikogu, too, row by row, the ambassadors say no tax changes, forget about it, there is no playing with taxes. Reduction of other expenditure. What kind of expenses? So, defense expenses? Cultural underfunding? Where do you get the money then? These are serious things, and they should really be talked about. In this sense, I congratulate my fellow Members, who also came along with this question and put it on the table. I think we need to continue these discussions and find solutions in this Chamber. I wish the Minister strength in his important and difficult work. In this sense, no one doubts that the Minister is doing his job with a heart and a commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U219	Would the Minister like a word? Please, Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U220	Good President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Very briefly, so that it doesn't just sound like cutting, saving. Indeed, the original austerity plan was greater than it finally came. We have reduced this objective of austerity quite significantly. There were quite significant amounts from the state budget to raise internal security salaries, which in the past, for example, did not exist last year. Yeah, the money came, went to the right place. The former Minister of the Interior left, but I wanted to say that, in my decision, in proportion to the wages of the rescuers, more money went into the wages of police officers, for example, because the rescuers, the first-line rescuers, were indeed more behind, and that was indeed my decision as a former police officer. If we look again, of course the top executives in their organisations must make balanced decisions. The feeling of security must not be damaged. We have a security environment exactly the way it is. However, resources must also be found to restructure work and to value people, in addition to the money from the state budget, also to find internal reserves. In the state budget today we have found quite large amounts of money for the construction of the border, an additional over 22 million, and last Thursday the security package for non-military development needs concerning internal defence is 33 million. So a lot has been done for this. Of course, people are behind this, and people must also receive a decent salary. Once again, the state budget was raised, but had to find additional resources within the organisation. And finally. Estonia is a digital state and digital services need to be constantly developed. And if a person does not have the opportunity to go on the spot, for example, it does not have the right time, then he must have the opportunity to receive this service through digital service. Then why are we developing these services when we say on the other hand that it is not necessary? But I agree, it has to be balanced. If a person cannot use a digital service, there must always be the possibility that he or she will go there. No service points will be closed, it's important. Working days change. And when we talk about creating jobs in so-called large cities to other places, the PBP has done so in the past. Traffic processing centre, which used to be in Tallinn and where a great deal can be done through various digital services of e-services, for example, these jobs were taken away from Tallinn a few years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U221	I will close the negotiations and that concludes our third item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U222	And now the story is that the agenda is exhausted, which means that after the hammer hit, it is possible to register in a free microphone. Kalle Grünthal will begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U223	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear TV viewers, good people, who are currently watching this presentation! Have you noticed the very interesting thing that since the beginning of this year, very interesting news has come from the mainstream media? For example, on 20 January, the ERR writes that the United Kingdom will alleviate the corona restrictions and, among other things, remove the masking obligation and also stop requesting coronal proofs. At the same time, the Prime Minister states that the restrictions will be relaxed, as scientists who advise the government believe that the omicron has passed the peak of the infection wave. On the same day, Irja Lutsar announces that the coronation test could also allow people to attend events, and the day later, Toivo Maimets, head of the scientific council, announces that the Health Board and the Scientific Council will present an assessment to the government on Tuesday to ease the restrictions. I wonder what's going on. But it's actually pure fear. That fear is what forces such statements to be made. The fact is that the UK has launched a criminal investigation into the issue of the COVID vaccine. It actually started with this, the accusation being basically based on the British doctor, Dr. Samuel White, who dared to question the safety of the vaccines and therefore received an 18-month ban from the British doctors' council after he had passed on his views in a video in which he questioned the duty of masking and the objectivity of the vaccines and also testing. And what's interesting is that Dr. White didn't accept this and went to court and won it in court. And it has now led to the fact that a statement has now been filed with the police with the relevant evidence. And ex-cop Mark Sexton has put together 1,100-page evidence and evidence to establish a possible crime scene. And the charge involves very serious things: abuse of office and abuse of authority, serious bodily injury, conspiracy, death as a result of the administration of toxic harmful substances, deliberate murder, corruption, fraud, extortion, murder. This list is going to be very long. But it's still starting to develop, and most police stations are gathering evidence right now. In addition, victims of vaccination will also receive certificates which have resulted in some vaccination centres being recognised as crime scenes. By the way, the charges have also been brought against ministers of the UK Government, civil servants as well as journalists and the media. This is also largely the reason why many countries, including Estonia, have actually begun to water down their restrictions. People are told that the corona is here to stay, and we must all learn to live with it, which is basically right. But this, of course, should not in any way exempt the accomplices involved in the conduct of these acts from liability. So, good Tanel Kiik, Irja Lutsar, Joller, all the doctors who have promoted this vaccination, as well as the school leaders who are calling for masks in schools, as well as the security guards who have used violence in people, and, of course, the esteemed Arkadi Popov, who has called 'anti-vaccinating murderers', I will remind you of one thing. In the Nuremberg process, war criminals were not helped by such a sentence: I followed orders. It didn't help anyone. So the payback's coming up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U224	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U225	Ladies and gentlemen, Good Estonian people! Today, the European Union Affairs Commission adopted its positions on the green turn and the 'Objective 55' with the equestrian attack. One more vote was taken in favour of the government's positions. Unfortunately, this debate did not arrive in front of the large Chamber. I and Urmas Reinsalu, who represented the party of the Fatherland in the Commission, did not support the position of the government, as many points could not be accepted. And the vote was a package. The proposals of the Estonian National Interest Protection Support Group were also disregarded in the European Union climate package and a number of interest groups were not involved. Here are a few points of view why I could not support what the government was proposing. The most important reason was that there was no impact analysis on the "Objective 55" part of the green turn. At the same time, the decisions taken have an impact on the development of the country for decades and may have irreversible consequences. And then, in 2035, people wonder who approved such views. It was proposed to the Government that the mandate for negotiations be conditional until an impact assessment was carried out. Unfortunately, this proposal was rejected. CO2 trade needs a fundamental overhaul. Today's CO2 quota has become a fiscal instrument rather than a tool to promote green solutions. While the ceiling was originally supposed to be EUR 25 per tonne, it already exceeded EUR 30 per tonne at the beginning of the previous year and reached nearly EUR 90 per tonne by the end of the year. Today, a figure of EUR 160 per tonne is already being speculated. This is the level expected to peak where the price of CO2 could reach in 2022. It was proposed that the current volatile CO2 emission premium be replaced at a stable rate. They rejected it. In the field of land use and forestry, Estonia has been given a completely unfair commitment to carbon sequestration. The proposal for carbon sequestration is very modest in those countries that do not pay particular attention to forest cultivation, but prefers, for example, the cultivation of pigs, tulips or grapes. At the same time, the obligation did not rise in the real forest country of Finland, but in Estonia it rose almost four times. The Government of the Republic takes the view that the target of 2.5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent offered to Estonia cannot be accepted. But if it was suggested that we keep the forest state in line with Finland and remain at the current level of Estonia, i.e. we bind 0.7 million tonnes of CO2, then it was not accepted. It simply reflects the skin-friendly attitude of the government. If an agreement is reached at 2 million tonnes of CO2 in the negotiations, then it can come back like a shield: 0.5 million tonnes were scraped from the first proposal. No! In all cases above today's level, the government has failed in the negotiations and returned without a shield. Today's proposal includes a ban on the introduction of new cars and small trucks with internal combustion engines by 2035. The proposal to exclude it was rejected because we have no idea and no understanding of what we will then be moving on. Estonia has been very good so far. Estonia has reduced CO2 levels by 64% of the agreed starting point. The European average is 41%. This is not a fight against a cleaner natural environment and a better climate, but a fight for rural life and not just for rural life, but for the entire Estonian state. I stress the word 'whole' in all its meanings: for the entire Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U226	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U227	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good people who watch or listen! I would like to do two things, congratulate the Prime Minister and the Government and ask a few questions. It should be that when things are wrong in some way, criticism is appropriate and vice versa, when things are good, it is also correct to express praise and I think. The decision recently taken by the government on 300 million emergency funding for a wide range of superficial defences is a timely and good decision, a strong message of substance. And that's where the initiative was added. To increase the presence of U.S. forces. Confirms that there has been some kind of momentary development, and there has also been an increase in active action by the Ministry of Defence for procurement. If there has to be something wrong with criticism. If so, we must be commended and, at this moment, the government and the Prime Minister are worthy of this praise. Of course, there are some ideas that when it comes to the need for extraordinary steps, because planning decisions and planning processes are likely to have been inappropriate and it would be appropriate to take some insight. Second. National defence issues in general are better handled and often discussed in a suitable manner. At such a meeting, either in the Commission or in a working group. But sometimes a subject begins to live its life, and at this point it has become an anti-aircraft. In his article in Postimees on 27 October, the Commander of the Defence Forces accused that some members of the Riigikogu had initiated an appeal to the Government of the Republic and, regrettably, they had not consulted him. It's not correct. But he says he hasn't consulted the Secretary of Defense. This is not correct and, fortunately, the Commander of the Defence Forces later in Saturday's post on Facebook rejects where he describes how the anti-aircraft debate and this initiative was born. And it started with a visit by me and my colleague Leo Kunnas to the Department of Defense. The Commander of the Defence Forces in his Facebook post also describes this, although this style could be a little more respectful. But there are a number of things that have arisen here on this subject, which also led to my speech. Firstly, there is a situation where someone wants to contribute more to national defence and is looking for the means to do so, and then someone who is responsible for implementation is looking for an explanation of how not to do so. That's not good. If every thorn counts, then the contribution of every thorn, regardless of what level he is on, and in a democratic country, things work in such a way that there is legislative power, executive power, executive authorities. And if the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu has consensually proposed to the Government of the Republic to find solutions for how anti-aircraft capabilities have been created by 2025, then after that, any such discussions or, as the Commander of the Defence Forces says, any quarrel should not be possible. But the questions. Can we imagine that our good ally, the head of the US Chiefs of Staff, says that Washington's air defense doesn't matter to me? It is more important to me that the air defence of the forces, as the Commander of the Defence Forces said at our meeting in the group, confirms in essence in his Facebook post that if the air defence protects Tallinn, it does not coincide with the fact that the troops are fighting elsewhere. It's not appropriate. The company receives the task from the battalion, the battalion from the brigade, the brigade from the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Commander of the Defence Forces receive the task from the Government of the Republic, which in turn receives the objectives of the Riigikogu. So there's a question. If the Commander of the Defence Forces thinks that the air defense of Suur-Tallinn is not the task of the Defence Forces, whose task is that? Do we need another defense force? You don't think mypo would do that, do you? So the question remains, whose task is air protection in Tallinn, which is extremely important to us in every sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-24_U228	I don't see any more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, with this we have exhausted today. I wish you a nice evening and I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. The sitting is adjourned.
