ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 6th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. I request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I am putting in place a bill that is very laconic: the law amending the law on basic school and upper secondary school. This law makes the following amendment: it is necessary to complete all final examinations at least with a satisfactory result. The aim, or the reason why we came up with this draft, is to rule out the abolition of thresholds at basic school finals and to provide in law that it is necessary to take all final exams at least with a satisfactory result to complete comprehensive school. It should be the Riigikogu's competence to decide on the final exams of basic school. Why is this important? But because it is very difficult to reach the goal when the challenge is to resume the newly completed debate. This is the situation with comprehensive school finals. The Committee on Culture has been working on this every spring for the fourth year in a row. Parliament's request can be summarised as follows: exceptionally during a pandemic, comprehensive school finals may be conditionally decoupled from graduating, but generally disagreed. The new minister, but the debate is old. Looking at the content of the amendments proposed by the Minister this year, the exams must be maintained, but the result of the exam is not related to graduating from school. Of course, the question arises as to how to define an examination as such if no threshold has been set. Since the Minister also decided to go to the media at the beginning of the previous three-year debate at parliamentary level and because the Committee on Culture will be presented to the draft when the Minister has taken a certain position, we believe that the parliamentary state should be given back to the Riigikogu to decide on such a major change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U3	I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Cyber Security Act, the Public Information Act and the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and related amendments to other laws. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior. And thirdly, the draft law on the organisation of health services and the amendment of other laws. The Government of the Republic shall be represented by the Minister of Health and Labour in the proceedings of the above bill in the Riigikogu. All three draft laws have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U5	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U6	73 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 28. We will move on to the adoption of this week's agenda, and I have a proposal to go to the preparation of the vote to endorse this agenda. Can we go to the vote? I am voting on the approval of the 6th working week agenda of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U7	With the result of 72 votes against 1 and no abstentions, the agenda has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U8	So, let's go to the first item on Monday's agenda. It's an inquiry. Members of the Riigikogu Helir-Valdor Seeder, Mikhail Lotman, Heiki Hepner, Priit Sibul, Andres Metsoja, Üllar Saaremäe, Urmas Reinsalu, Sven Sester, Aivar Kokk and Tarmo Kruusimäe submitted an inquiry on 26 January 2022. The information provided is about the funding of higher education and bears the number 112. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the question. I ask Mikhail Lotman, a member of the Riigikogu, to represent the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, to introduce this question to the Estonian public. Please, Mr. Lotman!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! On 25 January in Vikerradio, the Rector of the University of Tartu said that universities will not sign an administrative agreement with the state unless the government finds additional resources for higher education for the next three years. [[Summing in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] Latest news, no comparatively latest, February 11th... Okay. (Stands microphone.) It's falling out. A procedural proposal: to replace these microphones here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U10	It's okay, Mr. Lotman. You can go on nicely. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U11	Okay. And those contracts aren't signed. I have repeatedly spoken here in this speech chair about why universities are existential institutions for Estonia and what are the most important functions of universities. Imagine, I hope that this is not the case, that the universities, for the money they have received from the state, will deal with their affairs and exclude all the tasks that the state has given to universities, referring to the autonomy of universities. If one party fails to comply with it, but the management contract is a two-way commitment, the other side is also tempted to fail. This is a black scenario for Estonia. Following the reform of higher education initiated by Fatherland, state support for universities increased to 1.5% of GDP. Unfortunately, this level has now fallen to 1.1%. Asser estimated the financial deficit in higher education at EUR 100 million. Given the increased wage expectations, rising cost of living and other factors in recent years, underfunding higher education means that the quality and competitiveness of Estonian higher education will fall compared to other countries. Nevertheless, neither the government nor the coalition parties supported the proposal of the Isamaa Group to increase funding for higher education by at least EUR 20 million in the state budget in 2022. We understand that the Fatherland understands perfectly that the state budget is not rubber. But for things as important as education or defence, we need to respond to needs and see how to find and find opportunities. We welcome the government's decision to find additional funding for the armed forces. Crisis comes and goes. We hope that this current foreign policy crisis will be over. But the damage caused by the underfunding of higher education remains a challenge for decades. On the basis of these facts, we have put four specific questions to the Prime Minister, which I am not going to read to you now, because I hope the Prime Minister will do so himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U12	Thank you very much for this serious review. I now ask the Prime Minister of the Riigikogu's speech chair Kaja Kallas to answer the question, which bears the number 112. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U13	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions raised in the inquiry. The first question: "A significant part of university funding depends on administrative agreements with the State. Administrative agreements should be signed in the first quarter of this year, but decisions to finance higher education over the coming years will be taken in the autumn of the RES debate. How has this lack of clarity been allowed to arise in the area of higher education at the end of the current administrative agreements? " The management agreement agrees on the main obligations of the university for the duration of the management contract and the conditions for allocating resources from the state budget for their implementation. 2019/2021. The 2003 Administrative Agreement provides for the obligation of the Ministry to allocate to 2022. Until the conclusion of the 2003 Administrative Agreement and the 2022 Financing Agreement on the operating grant to the University in 2022, each calendar month, of one twelfth of the volume of the operating grant for the previous year, i.e. the total amount of [the entire] previous year. Universities can continue to comply with the obligations imposed on them by law with the money allocated to them, but they have refused to make additional commitments without any additional money. The second question: "The Higher Education Support Group of the Riigikogu pointed out that, according to the agreed RES, the target of higher education activities falls to 0.53% of GDP. Why and when did the government decide that higher education is not a priority area? " Higher education is an important area. Since 2013, with the exception of 2017, the operating grant for higher education has increased compared to the previous year. While in 2017, the operating grant for higher education institutions was EUR 141.1 million, it will be EUR 165 million in 2022. In addition, additional targeted grants have been added, for example to support regional learning, to create additional study places in the fields of education and health care, and investment grants have also been allocated. The third question: "The University of Tartu management contract report shows that the state has not fulfilled its obligation to increase university funding at a rate consistent with inflation in the years 2017 to 2020. What are government plans to rule out a repeat of a similar situation in the coming years? " The report relates to the period when the Reform Party was not in government, and it is sad to note that this period is one year after the operating grant for higher education was even reduced. Why is that? I can't comment. Maybe the inquisitors can do it because you were in the government at the time. But I can promise that the government will discuss the possibilities of increasing funding for higher education in the process of dealing with the country's budget strategy 2023.2026. Question 4: "The previous government decided, on the proposal of the Fatherland, to fulfil the objective of the research agreement to raise R &amp; D funding to 1% of GDP. How is the reduction in funding for higher education consistent with the government's objective of keeping R &amp; D funding in the state budget at 1% of GDP? "Bringing R &amp; D funding in the state budget to 1% of gross domestic product and maintaining it in the future will contribute directly to university research and support the quality of higher education education, but is not directly linked to the objective of funding higher education. There is also a need to continue paying attention to the increase in funding for higher education, as without high-quality and sufficient level of higher education, it will not be possible to increase the knowledge-intensiveness of our society. As part of the RES process, the government is discussing the development of higher education operating grants and it has been agreed that the Minister of Education and Research will bring forward the RES process's proposal to increase operating grants by 15% per year. In order to ensure the sustainability of higher education education in Estonia, the debate on the financing of higher education needs to continue with a view to the longer term. When considering the responsibility of the state and the private person to cover the costs of higher education, account must be taken of the impact of these choices on access to higher education, the motivation of students to enter higher education in Estonia, the need for labour, while considering the personal benefit of acquiring higher education for a particular person in the context of socio-cultural benefits. I can also confirm from my side that this 1% of gross domestic product for R &amp; D is still being retained. Is that the last question? I'm gonna make sure I somehow end up halfway here. Was that the last question? Was the fourth question the last one?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U14	You have been asked about funding for higher education, four questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U15	Right. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U16	The signatures are coming from now on. Helir-Valdor Seeder is first, then Mikhail Lotman and so on. It's on the turn. And now there are some questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U17	Good manager! Prime Minister! This $100 million, frankly, is really bothering a lot of people that we owe to college. But my question is that in its time, when foreign students began to come, the [number] has now risen three times, the funding was conditional on university internationalisation or the transfer to English. Have you discussed whether to remove this condition because they are quite expensive for the Estonian taxpayer compared to local boys and girls?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U18	Thank you. Yeah. As a result of this previous reform of higher education, there was indeed a situation in which universities were able to raise additional funding only through English-language curricula, and therefore a number of curricula arose that might not otherwise have arisen. The aim of the current negotiations on administrative contracts is that the state operating grant will no longer be used to provide English-language education at a bachelor's level, and if you offer English-language education at a master's level, Estonian-language education must also be guaranteed in a similar area. In the case of the operating grant performance fee, it is also planned to eliminate the component of the number of foreign students and to oblige [university] foreign students to teach Estonian. In fact, it is time to charge a fairer price to foreign or third-country nationals for studying at Estonian universities. This does not solve this issue of funding for higher education in general, as it is already 2020/21. In the academic year, 64% of students from third countries paid tuition fees at the Bachelor's and Master's level.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U19	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U20	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good lord! In your introductory speech, you said or answered the question that you do not know why in some years there was a reduction in the resources [to be allocated] to higher education. I strongly advise you to communicate with your coalition partner. [[Kaja Kallas is laughing.]] They know why it happened. You don't have to come here and tell me you don't know. Partners know, so ask them, you'll get a reasonable answer yourself. But, under the leadership of Margit Sutrop, a support group for higher education has been set up in Parliament and great work has been done. There is a clear understanding and it has been shown that a country's budget strategy has already been put together during your reign, where the resources for higher education [to be allocated] will be reduced. Perhaps you can comment on why you yourself have planned a reduction in the financial resources [to be allocated] for higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U21	Thank you. First of all, yes, I understand that I can ask a coalition partner, but since you've made an inquiry, I have a question that maybe you might have to go through your memory a little bit, you were in the government at the time. Perhaps it is not necessary to ask this question as such if you were actually in the government and made these decisions yourself. But about the funding of higher education institutions. If we look at operating aid in EUR million, it was EUR 160 million in 2021 and EUR 165 million in 2022. It's increased by 3%. Yeah, it's just a little 3.1% to be correct. However, yes, if you look at the planning of higher education operating grants 2023 to 2026, then 2023 it is planned to be 189.8 million, 2024 is 218.2 million and beyond 251 million. So it's actually planned to grow. But, as I said, we are discussing the country's budgetary strategy in the autumn, and we are fully aware of this concern that there are problems with funding higher education. However, as the reports of the National Audit Office say, what has caused the problems of funding higher education was the reform of higher education that you were carrying, i.e. free higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U22	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U23	Thank you. Prime Minister! Unfortunately, you could not positively surprise me with your answer. Four questions and five minutes in response, half of which took to read the question. This, in my opinion, also expresses the attitude of the current government and of you towards solving this problem. And the talk that the government is discussing the country's budget strategy in the autumn, and there is no way to make a decision before it is possible to conclude contracts, is not quite an adequate answer. Why do I not want to stress: I do not want to behave in the same way as you did with national defence expenditure, in which case you made a political decision in the office and in a much larger amount than we are talking about to solve an important problem? The same could be done with higher education, resolved at political level, decided and then brought to it in the context of the country's budgetary strategy [debate]. Why do you not want to do [do] analogously, as you made a decision on defence expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U24	Thank you. We are in the most difficult security situation in the last 30 years, and indeed there has not been freedom under attack like it is, and our security in exactly the same way. This is indeed an extraordinary situation, and that is why we had to make the decisions on defence quickly. Now, all the other areas of activity, be it higher education, social affairs, health, education, in fact, require the money that we are discussing in the course of the country's budget strategy. There, of course, this need is very big and very acute, but no area can be pointed out like this security situation, which at the moment has caused national defence spending to be made faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U25	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U26	Thank you. Prime Minister! Did I understand correctly what you said that higher education and its funding are all right, and if there are any shortcomings, it is the fault of the previous government? But I'm connected to two universities, and I can see what's going on there. People are being laid off. What is much worse is that young prospective scientists and lecturers themselves choose to travel either in the private sector or abroad. This is the price we are paying for this savings right now. Do you really think universities are bullying the government by...? You don't? Well, that's good. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U27	Thank you. I absolutely acknowledge the existence of this problem. Really, it's a big need for money. The Minister of Education and Science has spoken about this. Like I said, there's some 100 million missing, and that's what you have to do to find the money. I'm not saying no, there's no problem. On the contrary, the problem is very big and needs to be addressed. But just now the funding of universities, until really the country's budget strategy is agreed, is in earlier volumes, in fact they will not lose significantly in money in the course of this year if these administrative agreements have not been concluded. The bigger problem is that universities are not willing to accept these commitments. There are always two sides to the administrative agreement. On one side, there is indeed the money that is needed from the additional state, but on the other side there are the obligations that the state is asking universities to do. For example, universities have been asked to reduce the duplication of subjects. We have quite a few universities that teach the same thing, but don't teach it at the same level. This is the right direction, but it hasn't been done fast enough either. A good example is the area of justice. Similarly, in this area of internationalisation, universities are not obliged to teach students from third countries for free or for low tuition fees, yet this is done. Again, I am not saying in any way that there is no need for money in universities or colleges. I absolutely admit that teachers' salaries are lower than those they teach are not a normal situation. And indeed, the Minister of Education and Science is working on finding this money in the country's budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U28	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U29	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! There has been a lot of criticism that our higher education is in many cases not well linked to the needs of our economy. And we can see that, in many countries, private funding for research and also for higher education is much, much higher. The question to you is whether you agree with this criticism and whether anything can be done here to involve the private sector more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U30	Thank you. There are always several different levels in universities. One thing is that universities have to deal with basic science and basic science is a lot of curiosity-based science, researching things. This link with the economy cannot always be created there, but it can grow into something big and something on which to build this innovation, which is already concretely contributing to the economy. So in every area, I don't think this bond can be formalized in any way. But it has been said long and hard that people are being taught as people who do not need so much in the labour market and that these things should work together more. We have a R &amp; D council with the government, which is made up of companies, university representatives and government representatives, and it is constantly about how these things can be better linked to the labour market needs that [are] in line with what universities teach. There's different ideas. These ideas are still being brought together, but they cannot be fully linked to the needs of the labour market, because the basic science that universities do is also very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U31	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U32	Prime Minister! It is, of course, a rogue political culture that the current minister always blames the previous minister and the previous government blames the present. But I still want to figure out what this perspective is that you're drawing for us. If you push such an important question into the autumn, does this mean that there will also be a real solution to the situation in autumn? Is that when these 100 million come in the fall or in the autumn we hear the rhetoric again that we all understand the problem, but unfortunately there is no solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U33	Thank you. First of all, I would just like to draw attention to the beginning of your question. If the question of questioning is that the state has not complied with the obligation to increase university funding at a rate consistent with inflation in 2017, then I really cannot accept this accusation if I have not been in government, okay, in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. Then you were in the government. That's why I had to make that point. Now, as far as your question is concerned, of course, the debates on the state budget, the discussions on the state budget strategy are a compromise and a debate between all areas. Money is missing in all areas, and not everything can be done. In short, every time you do something, you're missing something, and in the end, there are disputes that reveal the truth. Can I make you a promise now that $100 million will come? No, I cannot make that promise because this agreement [will only be concluded] as a result of the debate on the country's budgetary strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U34	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U35	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! How much do you think this deficit of EUR 100 million will increase because the government has postponed this problem? We know that, in fact, consumer price index, or inflation, is much higher today than the increase in funding has been. Is next year's $105 million due, you've done some calculations? How to compare 2021? You were just referring, in 2021, to the Prime Minister. Has everything gone exactly at least to the level of inflation between 2021 and 2022?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U36	Thank you. The budget for 2021 was made by the previous government. We have made this year's budget, and this will actually increase the funding for higher education from 160 million to 165 million. I cannot tell you in concrete terms what a huge deficit is going to be, but what I want to say is that we are dealing not only with this side of the money, but also, in fact, with the other side of this structural reform of higher education. Perhaps the Minister of Education and Research has proposed to the Government to clarify the funding principles in the Higher Education Act, including, for example, that re-learning at the same level, at higher education level, be made subject to a fee. You can only study once for free, with public money. Second, you can't go again [to study] for free to avoid this continuous jump from one area to another. And also not to allow free studies in several higher education institutions at the same time. There could be one thing you get from the state. There are also proposals to charge higher tuition fees for third-country nationals, as well as to provide paid micro-degrees and further education ♪ our micro-degrees, which are already offered, have been very popular and, more generally, to allow part-time learning for an adult working person. So these are the proposals that have been put forward in addition to bringing more money anyway. Of course, it is not 100 million of these small steps that come together, which I am not going to say in any way, but it is simply something that will help to alleviate this financing problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U37	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U38	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister, thank you very much for your answers. As you rightly pointed out in your previous reply, this problem of funding higher education has arisen in the past and has arisen in the reform of funding for free higher education, for example by prohibiting the opening of part-time curricula. And now one of the problems that universities currently have is that they have the right few permits, which means that private money can actually get very little. The Minister of Education and Science has also told us in this Chamber that the state is currently suffering mainly because the state cannot open these places and cannot get the graduates that the country needs for jobs. But there are also universities that are not currently able to raise this extra money. As a result of this problem, I would ask whether it is really necessary to wait until autumn. Because if these universities don't sign this agreement now, they can't open up the same part-time study programmes from the new academic year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U39	Thank you. In fact, part-time learning can also be allowed under the already existing system. I read here that I am not an expert in this field, that there is no need for an amendment to the law and there is no need for steps. If the universities believe that this will actually help to ease funding, I believe that these steps could still be taken. If they themselves admit that this is one of the solutions. If this [step] is not taken, then why, if it were at least partial relief should be asked. But I still cannot make a promise before we agree on a country's budgetary strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U40	Prime Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Priit Sibula, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good lord! I listen to these answers and wonder. I mean, the numbers have been made clear. But I am just reminding you of our debate here when we put together this year's state budget. Then Defence Minister Kalle Laane repeatedly went to answer questions, and during the budget negotiations, we were told how 700 million is greater than 600 million. There were other numbers back there. Well, I never thought there were people in this house or room who didn't know 700 was more than 600. This is exactly the same in the case of higher education. There are absolute figures here, but the fact that inflation is repeatedly higher and the money is reduced seems to be being spoken to stupid people. But teachers, university staff are not stupid people, they realize that in fact these resources are less and less. And I think that's where there's no reason to look for past mistakes. Let us be corrected once again: the 2017 budget was largely put together by the government of Taavi Rõivas when we are going to look historically for who was in the government at the time and what decisions were made exactly. Of course, nothing has been done. But the question is, as you rightly pointed out, that at certain times some problems are closing down, becoming more topical and important, and for them we need solutions for the future, not looking in the past for mistakes and their makers. As to what the rectors of universities have said that there are 100 million missing, you referred to a number of things that the Minister of Education and Research could do, and what the Minister of Education and Science has done with some amendments to the law, but some proposals do not need amendments to the law. They must all be done, but, as you said, of course, that is not enough. So I very much hope that in the coming months, the government will find the necessary resources, as was found in the field of defence. [Intensity] we were told one, two and three, all realised that in the context of the state budget, defence costs fell to 2.03%. Fortunately, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence, before the final adoption of the budget, realised that the problem existed and was very serious, and found this circa 100 million additional funds. I hope that for education, for teachers' salaries and for higher education, these funds will be found just as soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U42	I now request the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U43	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I am very concerned about what is happening in Estonian higher education. And even more worrying, after the Prime Minister's answer to today's question. As I said in my question, if the Prime Minister is able to answer four questions in five minutes, and more than half of the time went to the reading of the questions, then it also expresses his attitude as to how important the Prime Minister considers it to be in this area and how thoroughly he considers it necessary to answer the questions of the members of the Riigikogu. But let's get to the bottom of it. Today's situation is that the rectors of universities have not agreed to conclude administrative agreements with the country. This is a very unfortunate situation and has caused a great deal of confusion and uncertainty, ignorance from both the state and universities. This is not a sustainable situation in Estonian higher education. On the one hand, universities are in a difficult position on the financing side; they do not know what the future holds. You can use one twelfth this year, but we know what the cost of living has done in one year, in two years. At the same time, the state, when viewed by the state, cannot formalise its order for higher education. And just as the Prime Minister lamented, there is another side of the agreement, in addition to funding: what are the responsibilities and what are the tasks. There is a problem facing each other. And it's like there's no objective solution to the problem. But there's actually a solution. Firstly, it was an opportunity to process the state budget in December last year, EUR 20 million, which was in the amendment. Of course, the government coalition itself could have found a solution in some other form, 10 million, 30 million, 40 million, during the proceedings. Discuss, think, negotiate with representatives of higher education institutions, university representatives and find a solution. That's not what you wanted. To tell you that in December, we didn't know there was a problem, wasn't it? Utopia. The coalition and the government lacked the will to solve this problem. Secondly, there is the possibility that an additional budget is currently available. The revenue from the tax is beyond forecast. The revenue from the tax is very high, this twenty million, in order to solve this acute problem, can also be brought here with an additional budget. There is this opportunity, too. The third thing I said: just as in the case of defence expenditure, to make a political decision in the cabinet, even for this year, we will then talk about 20 million. I believe that universities will understand and understand if this longer perspective cannot be resolved immediately, that it will come up with the RES. But the goodwill of the government that this money will be found for this year is possible. No, the government has not taken any such opportunity. And, well, the Prime Minister's answer à la "self you did, you were in the government" is not constructive. All the more so by manipulating numbers. The 2017 budget, as we know, was indeed prepared by the government of Taavi Kõivas. The government of Jüri Ratas took office in November and, yes, voted in favour of the budget in December, but during the whole year of preliminary work, the previous government had done so. But I don't want to stop here in this history and start arguing on the same level, who's more guilty. Today we need to look for solutions for the future. As I said, these solutions are financially feasible and vitally necessary at the moment. I would also like to say a few sentences about what has been said here on several occasions, that the whole problem is caused by the reform of higher education which was carried out years ago, i.e. free higher education. Friends! The expression "free higher education" is already inaccurate. We've been talking all along, the Fatherland Party has talked about free Estonian-language higher education. I would like to stress once again to everyone who wants to quote: free Estonian-language higher education. And the fact that the state budget covers foreign language learning has not been the aim and part of the reform, but, on the contrary, has made this situation more difficult. This free Estonian-language higher education, of course, had to be accompanied by additional state budget funding. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U44	Yes, please! Extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U45	Additional state budget funding would have been a comprehensive approach to reform. On the one hand, free Estonian-language higher education and on the other hand, additional state budget funding. And to say today that if this reform had not been implemented, the problem of funding universities would have been solved. It's not! Anyone who communicates with universities will understand that universities are also in a competitive position. We must look to our neighbouring countries. But what do neighbouring countries do? Neighbouring countries offer free-of-charge higher education to students from EU Member States in a wide range of disciplines. If, for example, there is free study at Sibelius Academy, but our Music and Theatre Academy offers paid education, then we put our universities in a more difficult position and create a situation where Estonian students may be going across the bay to study in Finland. The reform of Estonian-language higher education is not a free reform of this argument and the reason why universities are currently in a difficult financial situation, but that the Estonian state has not fulfilled its obligations. If there is political will, it can be resolved. As I said, tax revenue is very good, and if higher education is a priority, it is certainly possible to find this twenty million in the current year either with an additional budget, as a political decision or in any other form, which is also in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Estonia. I very much hope that the government will take its feet out of this matter, stop looking for the guilty and start looking for constructive solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U46	Thank you. I now ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Mikhail Lotman.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U47	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I also found positive in the Prime Minister's answers, not in verbal language, but more in body language, when you agreed that the problem was serious and the rectors were not teasing. But if we look at this situation in the Estonian higher education landscape in its entirety, we will see that on the one hand Estonian higher education is very good and the Estonian scientific community is very good. But if we look at their age group now, we can see that this is, to a large extent, the service of an older generation. Jobs for young people are no longer attractive. There are some very good young people who come out of a sense of mission, but this is not sustainable from the point of view of national policy. I'm not an expert on financial matters, and I'm not gonna pretend I know where to take that money. For this we have, for example, the chair of the group in the group. Yeah, the odds are there. But I want to put this on your heart. You said national defence is in an emergency situation right now. And there was a whole list of areas that could be affected right now. I would ask you very much, Prime Minister, to review your priorities. Losses in Estonian higher education are very painful and this is a very long-term process of licking our wounds. I'm glad you understand that it's not in the hands of the rectors, and it's not in the hands of professors. It's not about the faculty either. But we must [improve], and it is the duty of the State to somehow improve this balance between the efforts of professors and scientists and their fees. There are also a number of other issues which, unfortunately, cannot be resolved by financial means, and that is the responsibility of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U48	Thank you very much. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Margit Sutrop.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U49	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Good ambassadors and all those who are watching this concerned debate! I share all your concerns and look to the autumn with the same hope. But my situation may be dual. On the one hand, I am the chairman of the Higher Education Support Group and I thank everyone who has confirmed their participation in this working group in the Riigikogu and with whom we are taking a step in the joint fight for a better future for higher education. At the same time, I am, of course, a MP of the Prime Minister's Party and in a difficult situation. 'Cause if I was in the opposition, well, I'd shoot, I'd be able to tell you what's missing and what everything needs to be done. But I also have a good opportunity because I have had more opportunities to talk to the Minister for Education and Science, and I can assure you that the situation is not as hopeless as it may seem to you. I think that autumn will bring us the hopeful messages we have been waiting for, but perhaps, before that, we really need to do our homework and think about whether it can only be public funding or whether, as agreed in the coalition agreement, there are opportunities to include private money that we need to think about. And it doesn't necessarily have to be the student's pocket, but it can be the same as the positive news about the funding of science that the private sector can shoulder it here too. Right now, while we are discussing here, in some of the other offices of the Riigikogu there are precisely discussions with representatives of the private sector that they could do if the state fulfilled its obligations. But the reason I took the right floor is that I really want to sort out the concern that comes from our partners here in this joint working group. I have never wanted to argue with the Fatherland ambassadors about who is guilty, but perhaps it would still be useful to look at the brochure that we have issued, 'The role, quality and foundations of high education', because it is precisely here that the Auditor General Janar Holm has said very nicely, which was the nature of the free reform of higher education that the Fatherland did during its government and on its own initiative. It says that the reform took decisively the state's responsibility for maintaining higher education institutions. And he also says: "It seems logical to assume that if someone voluntarily takes responsibility, he is responsible in practice, in the context of the ban on paid Estonian higher education, it is important to analyse the size of the national funding for higher education. " Indeed, there is nothing malicious about this, but the question is simply that, in the event of a very, very important step, the opportunity for students to study for free was left all the burden on the country. And maybe not only that this burden was left, but there is also a very important piece of legislation that prevents higher education institutions from increasing their profits. This is the problem that income growth can only take place at the expense of an English-language curriculum or part-time curricula or the missing points of these students, which they themselves pay for. And please, dear ambassadors, try to understand the learning really at times has come with our very-very great ideal, free higher education, free higher education in Estonian has mostly opened the door to English-language higher education. I don't think English education is a problem. I consider this to be a problem only in those places where it is only for money, where we really do not have good quality or where we have no hope of getting these people into our labour market, or where we do not have such curricula where we would actually be, say, the best in the world. As for example, my colleague Mikhail Lotman's curriculum is semiotic, which is not really why the English curriculum offers us to get money... A few more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U50	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U51	... only we have opened this curriculum because it is the best in the world and we can raise students here who, like ambassadors, like cultural ambassadors go around the world and talk about how great the Tartu-Moscow school was or how good the semioticians are doing today. And my own curriculum, the philosophy of the English curriculum, which we once opened in a master's degree, is equally internationally very high in scientific terms. It also gives us the opportunity to bring students from all over the world here to go around the world and say: Wow, what kind of country is this Estonia? So I don't consider English-language education to be a problem, but I find it a problem when those people who have done free higher education and have banned students from taking money for it, even if they want to pay, start blaming universities for English-language learning. But as a result of all of this, I'm going to sum up, that's what I'm saying now, I'd like us to go forward together. I think the government also understands that Estonia's future depends on higher education. I think they're ready to find that extra money. I think the private sector is also ready to find this extra money. The situation is just very complicated today. I really wouldn't dare, even if I were in the opposition right now, punching on the table like that and saying, "Give this money to higher education when Estonia is facing a very serious international security situation." But in the hope that autumn will give us a chance to give this money, I'm optimistic. Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Thank you, and, universities, hold on!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U52	I understand there is now a rejoinder. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. It's more of a half-step. I thank you, not for mentioning my name, but for highlighting semiotics and this program. But there's one thing I want to do here. Tartu's English Semiotics Master's programme is not in place of the Estonian Master's programme; they are parallel. Of course, I would like to say that many Estonian students also attend these English-language lectures and participate in seminars, and this is certainly beneficial for them. But I stress once again: not at the cost of education in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U54	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U55	Honourable Riigikogu! These are very dangerous developments. Universities have indicated that they will not sign administrative agreements with the State. Also in the funding of the universities of applied sciences, the back is against the wall, and in this unsigned [contract] situation, HTM pushes the whole problem into the autumn. For a moment, [it seems to be] politically resolved, but absolutely not. The problem is getting worse, also stealing confidence in the longer term, and precisely in this area, which is the main investment for our country in the education of the people. At the same time, the Prime Minister is a reform party, the Minister of Finance is a reform party, the Minister of Education and Science is a reform party, and the Higher Education Support Group created at the level of the Riigikogu is headed by the Reform Party. If the HTM minister says it's a priority, but his party associates push the priority into autumn, then it's not a priority. If there is political will, then an additional budget must be brought before the Riigikogu in the spring and try to solve this issue. But if you go further, the question arises as to who needs to be the first example for citizens to comply with laws, treaties, agreements. First of all, the state itself means the institutions representing the power. How, then, should a state fail to comply with its commitments? This is what happened to university management contracts. If you just read the news that they're not signing, it's like you're wondering why. But if you look at this history and look at the protocols that universities have spoken about at the level of the Committee on Culture, which has been spoken about by representatives of the Academy of Sciences, I understand why universities have become more demanding. Justifiably, because they've been deceived. So we hope that the words that the Prime Minister used here, that hope is not given or cannot be promised, will still change in time and give us positive news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U56	Thank you. I now ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Koka.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U57	Prime Minister! Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I came here because I listened to the chairwoman of the Higher Education Support Group here. And I had a question. The Estonian state should be proud of the fact that at the beginning of the second decade of this century, it did free higher education in Estonian. I suggest you read how a German [politician] and regional leader visited Estonia and said that his life's work was to get free higher education. Our President today has clearly stated that his ideal is a wise nation. Are we really trying to reach a situation where everyone who is able, able and willing to receive higher education cannot do so because their parents' wallet does not allow it? I am proud to admit that when I came into politics and joined the Fatherland Party, one reason was that in the elections to the Riigikogu at the time, the party was willing to make one of the three sentences "Free Higher Education" written on the flag. I believe that everyone who has had more than one child at home who has pursued higher education knows what a child goes to higher education means if you are not a person of Tallinn or Tartu and your child does not go to higher education in this city. I am delighted that there was a time when five young people from my home went to college at the same time. No matter how strong an entrepreneur or highly paid you are, it would be relatively difficult for five young people to be educated. Yeah, two out of five were son-in-laws, but they lived at home with us, and I'm really happy about that. Estonian-language higher education and university funding. I remember the negotiations of the previous coalition, and during both budgets, money was added to higher education. When someone says that this money was not allocated, [it must be said that] it was actually allocated. I remember myself, I got some pats on my shoulder, even though it wasn't my fault for getting more money. We talked to the lecturers at Tallinn University. But it was a coalition deal, it was teamwork. And today to come up here and talk about how we're gonna do this fall, you know, I have to admit, these stories have often been said here on the speaker's desk that we're gonna do it in the future. We see tens and tens of millions thrown to the wind, agreed in a government office or a government session without a big scream and scream and perhaps without a special debate. Today, we are talking about a slight rise in 10 to 20 million higher education in one year and in the following years, to give good higher education in Estonian, where there is a very good lecturer. It is not a sin that our higher education institutions also provide higher education in English. In fact, it is very good because foreign students come to Estonia and often... Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U58	Yeah, please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U59	... after all, they remain here in Estonia, developing the Estonian economy here and giving us the opportunity to become the richest of the five. Perhaps the question arises as to what we think and how we act. We see today that the rectors have very clearly pushed their backs straight. We argue and fight. I can tell you calmly that it won't take half a year to find the money. This money will certainly be found more quickly, as we have seen in the case of the energy crisis. We also saw this in the case of the reduction of excise duties on fuels, when we introduced the bill in April, there was debate at the beginning of September, the draft came to the Riigikogu at the end of September, and the decision was taken. I remember how we talked about zeroing network charges when prices are high. They did, but it only took a month to make that decision. I very much believe and hope that today's coalition will find [this money] very easily. Especially since all the key ministers in this area are from the Reform Party and believe the Prime Minister, who certainly also wants to support higher education, I do not believe that this could be any different. Two or three weeks ago, they came here and said 380 million people said it was right there, although after it turned out that there was no real money, maybe the next governments will find the money. But that 20 million will be found and this hatchet will be buried. I believe that Estonian education, which has always been at the top of the world, continues and we do not need to worry that some lecturers may have to give up, have to go somewhere else to work to get a little better pay. And our students do not have to fear that education given at one point in their mother tongue will become paid and, for example, art people should go somewhere to Nordic universities, where foreign students will also receive free education. It is important to keep Estonian language and mind. Free higher education in Estonian is also important for the development of our economy. It is also important that our faculty are given a decent salary, for which resources are found in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U60	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, They've been talking about an injection lately. And the main thing is the anticorona injection. It's not like it's been getting anywhere lately, even though about 100,000 people are vulnerable around us somewhere. But today we're talking about a much bigger injection, a 100-million-dollar injection that we owe to college for a long time. A 100-million-dollar injection. Well, you could say that if you haven't had a shot in a long time, and now you're doing a $100 million, maybe it's bad for college. Zirinovsky was given eight injections, of course anticorona, but still under the oxygen apparatus. Or has he escaped now? But funny, it's pretty serious. A month ago, or sometime, I ended up in Võru Kubja's debate on funding for higher education, where I sat next to my colleague Margit Sutrop, and I saw how he didn't feel best there. The hall was crowded, and as a representative of the Prime Minister's party, he was naturally looked at when the injection would come. Not a hundred million. Margit used to say, "Wait, wait, I think it's coming." I think he knows when that shot's coming, but somehow he won't tell us. They say maybe in the fall and it's 20 million or so on. Well, if this higher education reform was 2013, Aaviksoo was a minister, I remember what was then promised. Poorer boys and daughters get to go to college. Training will be given to those professions for which there is a need in the labour market. And what else was there? There were several other things. But it actually went the other way. The number of foreign students has increased to at least three times and Estonian-language curricula have moved slowly but firmly towards English. No university funding was one moment there and it was a pleasure to hear that the ruler said that this financing model would be changed, it could no longer be a condition for how universities would be financed. But what has changed as a result? After Aaviksoo's reform was adopted, I realized at one point, waiting for the bus on Mustamägi, why Mustamägi is called Mustamägi. I hadn't thought about it before. But the question isn't whether Mustamäe is Mustamäe or any other mountain is Kollamäe. It doesn't matter. But so far many third-country students have been on top of the Estonian taxpayer's wallet. And, well, at the graduation of the music academy, I've been there many times, there's such a nice Chinese gadget and nice girls. Beautiful! Of course, it cannot be said that the Academy of Theatre and Music is a major [higher education institution], but their model, which is much bigger than the University of Tartu or Tallinn University of Technology, is nevertheless strikingly important. And now, if you look at the University of Tartu, I have such data, I think, they are not quite wrong, that the University of Tartu has 12% foreign students, but the University of Helsinki has half the bay. But perhaps the smartest people can tell me if it is somehow the University of Tartu and the University of Helsinki... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Oh, beautiful bell again. Does that mean a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U62	Time's up right now. If you want more time, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U63	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U64	I'm going to give you extra time, but I'm going to say this line between here, that there must be no incitement from this speech chair, I can't accept it in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U65	I don't know who you're talking about. But the bell was beautiful. ... and their success in the university ranking. And now, when it comes to money and development plans, the esteemed ruler knows very well that they are all beautifully written. But how much of this corresponds to reality? Today, in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, we talked about broadband. This is the peak of e-governance embarrassment. 69 million have been spent in the first phase, 37,000 connections, but the plan was that already in 2015, everyone who needs it should have gotten there. The money's gone, but there's no result. It's going on and on, but nobody knows when a fast internet gets to the people who really need it. And we don't really know who needs it, either, and whether they're capable of paying their share. So it's an important subject. Last night's address, which we all could hear here, the situation of graduating from middle school, the exams that zero can go peacefully into life. Hey, what are you talking about? Like they say, a bullet in the head. But it's not an invitation to violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U66	Thank you. More requests for speech... Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U67	Yeah, I have a procedural question. President-in-Office of the Council. You made a comment to the member of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernits, that he would incite hatred from the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to remind you that a member of the Riigikogu is free in his opinion. And second of all, this is a very serious accusation, and if you said so, maybe you'd like to give a very concrete example of what you're accusing Peeter Ernitsa of right now. How did this incitement of hatred show that you had to make such a very specific and very fundamental remark?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U68	§ 12 of the Constitution. That concludes the negotiations. I'm so sorry, Mart Helme, but I'm done negotiating. Therefore, this question has been answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U69	We are going to the second question: the inquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Heiki Hepner, Priit Sibula, Aivar Koka, Urmas Reinsalu, Sven Sester and Mikhail Lotman on 27 January 2022 concerning the draft law on notification of infringements. It's number 114. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Mikhail Lotman, member of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U70	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! We have now discussed a very important problem concerning the financing of Estonian higher education, and I am quite ashamed to go now to discuss this completely unnecessary, non-essential problem, and I will say it directly, a rather shameful one. Yeah, we're talking about the bill on the law on reporting violations. In general, there is such a law. When a crime has been committed, every Estonian citizen is obliged to notify it. But there's a mismatch between the title and the content. This bill of knocking is something else. As an older person, I remember that such things were perfectly present during the occupation. When the first department of the University of Tartu was opened during Perestroika, I had, I would say, misfortune to work there a little. I worked on the work of the university lecturer Villem Ernitsa. With disgust, I saw how many knocking materials there were. I spoke in this speech chair when this bill was presented, and then a good colleague from the Social Democratic Party said that it was demagoguery, that it could not be compared to the Soviet Union and the present Republic of Estonia. I am not comparing these things, I am comparing the Republic of Estonia, say, to Britain, to the United States, where such things have been introduced, and it has, in my opinion, very much ruined the morals of society. The fact that the so - called whistleblowers are now under special protection is clearly disproportionate to the fact that there is no protection for those on whom they whistle or on whom they sound. This is part of a very wide-ranging campaign, which unfortunately we see in Western societies, which is legitimising out-of-court settlements. This campaign was linked to the 'MeToo', which, on the one hand, protected women first and foremost, but also other genders, yes, from harassment. I don't want to say one good word about molesters or defend them in any way, but these accusations couldn't be challenged, and they're not gonna get rid of people for the rest of their lives. So is it here. This is another way that our people who have been knocked on will have this label on them, regardless of whether knocking was justified or not. There are a number of other questions. For example, exceptions have been made for doctors, but not for priests and pastors, not for chaplains in the army. This is a very important problem. The military was assured that what he was talking to the chaplain would be between them. But it's not here, on the contrary, it's a trigger that triggers all kinds of accusations. I really want to hope that doesn't happen. One last thing. This is like the transposition of the European Union directive. If we look at this original European directive... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm almost done. It's actually much thinner. What we are dealing with here is a much more serious and more dangerous bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U71	Thank you. I ask Prime Minister Kaja Kallas of the Riigikogu to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U72	Thank you. Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable heirs! I'll answer the questions. But before I go to the questions, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the development of the Estonian legal space is taking place across governments on very many issues. Actions necessary for the area of justice are not abandoned simply because they are initiated by the previous or previous government. If it is a necessary issue that is not regulated in the Estonian legal area, then continuity is of great value. So I would very much like to thank Urmas Reinsalu, who is not here, who gave...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U73	Prime Minister! I must apologize to you, a member of the Riigikogu may have a technical problem. I'm also asking for silence in the hall. Helle-Moonika Helme, this applies primarily to you now. Mart Helme, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U74	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to draw the speaker's attention to the fact that, if he is thinking of answering the draft currently under discussion and the questions asked in this connection, the previous government signed, the ministers signed the intention to develop. The intention to develop, not the draft as such. The draft, as such, has not been signed by the ministers of the previous government, and the ministers of the previous government who are currently in opposition have not given their consent to this particular draft in this wording and with all these points, including paragraphs added by the European Union to the directive of the European Commission. So ask the respondent to be accurate with the facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U75	Thank you. All these comments can also be made by members of the Riigikogu in the round of negotiations. I really say that if you have technical [problems], the procedural issues are understandable. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U76	Thank you, President-in-Office, Jüri Ratas. I apologize for perhaps interrupting the hearing here and speaking, but I had a very fundamental topic to discuss with Helir-Valdor Seeder. This specifically touched on the question I raised on the previous item, to which you did not answer at all in principle. How is it possible for the President of the Riigikogu to charge a member of the Riigikogu as a matter of principle that he or she speaks like a speech of hatred or hatred? I said, please give concrete examples. This paragraph you said is absolutely no example. I do not know how we will proceed if we can no longer speak freely as members of the Riigikogu as members of the Riigikogu without being accused of having any speech of hatred or hatred. It is actually very closely connected with this law, which we are discussing here, with the law of this complaint.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U77	Thank you. A member of the Riigikogu is always free to speak. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U78	Thank you. I was in the middle of [the answer], but I think that the [too] paragraph of § 12 of the Constitution is important in order not to consider it anything. But it was just a side comment. In short, I come back to thank you for this one question of understanding...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U79	Prime Minister, I still have to apologize to you. There is also a procedural question. Mart Helme, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U80	Yes, thank you! If the Prime Minister thinks that § 2 of the Constitution...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U81	Paragraph 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U82	12, sorry! ... Peter Ernits, in his speech, has somehow offended or abused, so please give examples. What did Peter Ernits say to incite hatred, racial hatred, hatred among people? What? What specifically? Do you have anything to say? There's nothing to say? Then don't tell me!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U83	Thank you. After all, this Article 12 was my reply in the context of the previous inquiry. I would like to ask you that we proceed with this question now. Thank you. Thank you. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U84	Thank you. So, for the third time, I have the opportunity to thank Urmas Reinsalu, as the initiator of this inquiry, who made an important contribution in 2019 to the drafting of the directive on the protection of whistleblowers, as well as to the fact that, when drafting national legislation, he drew up important observations that should be considered further in drafting the draft. Therefore, calling such an important issue a system of complaint is perhaps a momentary distraction, because your steps are not exactly remembered. But I'll get back to the answers. The first question: "What problems do you imagine to solve? " The answer. Minister of Justice Maris Lauri, whose area of work belongs to the drafting and processing of the draft, gave you a comprehensive overview of the draft at first reading in the Riigikogu the day before the submission of this inquiry. Therefore, my answers are considerably shorter. The problem solved by the draft was defined in 2019 when the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, supported the whistleblower protection directive, which aimed and, according to the draft, continues to ensure the protection of the whistleblower. The second objective of the draft act is to detect, eliminate and thereby minimise potential harm at the earliest possible stage. The third objective is to establish a legal clarity on how the organisation, inside and outside the organisation, must deal with professional violations. As a result, the organisation will be able to react more quickly to the infringement and the damage to the organisation and society will thus be reduced. The second question: "Why did the government leave medical secrecy, but not confessional secrecy, out of the system of complaint? " The answer. The law does not oblige clergymen to violate confessional secrecy and to report known violations. The protection provided by the Bill means that a person must not be subjected to professional persecution because he or she has duly notified the infringement. The law provides for some exceptional circumstances in which no protection is provided to the notifier when notifying the infringement. These are situations where the obligation of professional secrecy, such as the obligation of professional secrecy of a lawyer and a health care professional, has already been laid down in the past at the level of the law. However, there is no reason to believe that clergymen will no longer comply with the obligation of confessional secrecy when the draft comes into force. However, it is possible for the Riigikogu to consider including such an exception in the draft if deemed necessary. The third question: "Please answer separately whether the draft includes churches, congregations, newspapers, kindergartens, schools, universities, military units, Riigikogu, courts, non-profit associations and the Defence League? Please describe separately how the appeal system takes place in practice in these organisations and who are the competent authorities for organisations in each area? "First of all, I understand that you are always using the word 'complaining system' to discredit this draft, but it is still a system of reporting infringements. Now the answer. As the draft is based on a directive, which was supported by the author of the inquiry, it is good to know what this directive says. I quote: "The establishment of internal communication channels should be made compulsory for all companies with 50 or more employees, regardless of the nature of their activities, on the basis of their VAT collection obligation. This Directive should be without prejudice to the possibility for Member States to encourage legal persons in the private sector with fewer than 50 employees to establish internal channels for notification and follow-up of infringements, including by setting out less detailed requirements for those channels than in this Directive, provided that such requirements ensure confidentiality and thorough follow-up. " End of quote. I assure you that the draft law is in line with the directive and that legal persons and institutions with more than 50 employees must set up an internal communication channel. The obligation to create an internal channel is not extended to other legal entities with fewer than 50 employees. What is a competent authority depends on the content of the infringement, so it is not possible to designate only one specific competent authority. For example, in the case of fire safety problems, it is the Rescue Board, which is already working on it and does not have any new tasks in this regard. In the case of certain infringements, it may also be a supervisory authority, for example in prisons it is the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, what is a competent authority depends, not on what is an undertaking or an institution, but on what is the specific issue. Question 4: "Why does the government also want to create an anonymous complaint system in Parliament with the possibility of procurement of information to allow for an appeal? Who is the person who gave his consent to the draft on behalf of the Riigikogu? "Maybe the heirs will be surprised, but the laws will be passed by the Riigikogu, so the Riigikogu will also have a final word when adopting this law. But it seems that you need to examine the draft more closely, because this question itself contains false claims. First of all, the draft does not create an anonymous enforcement system. Secondly, the draft has no connection with the procurement of information under the Security Authorities Act. Thirdly, a member of the Riigikogu does not receive protection on the basis of RTKS in the event of notification of an infringement which has become known by a professional activity, as a member of the Riigikogu does not fall within the personal scope of the Act pursuant to section 3 of the RTKS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U85	Thank you. You have questions, too. Let's go to them. A procedural question, Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U86	Thank you. I don't have a procedural question. I have a rejoinder. Can I do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U87	No, we don't have that kind of opportunity. It's not home and running. Recipients are in the round of negotiations. There is no rejoinder at the moment, I can't give it in any way. I thank you because you asked honestly. I mean, you could have done a rejoinder when you asked the procedural question, but you didn't. There's no way, seriously. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, I understand you didn't mean to abuse. Thanks for that. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U88	Good manager! Sire! My question is that I have read more about this directive 2019/1937 and read the very good overview of your combat partner Rait Maruse in Postimees. Why did you, in itself, extend this directive, which concerns that raepaps and other bad people do not use the European Union's instruments and these laws in an unintended way? Why did you extend it so much, and whose decision it was to extend the directive to a great deal, in the face of all this domestic knocking?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U89	Thank you. Perhaps it is appropriate to go over this procedure again here. Namely, this initiative came from the European Commission in 2018 and Estonia formed its position in the Riigikogu's European [Union] Affairs Committee. Seven reasons were mentioned for Estonia not being able to support this directive. The position was brought to the government by Urmas Reinsalu, then Minister of Justice. By 2019, the directive had reached a point where all the problems in Estonia had been solved, and Minister Reinsalu felt that there was no need to shape a new position and that Estonia could now support the directive. In 2020, Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg voted in favour of the Directive. At the time of drafting and drafting, such steps were such that, indeed, in mid-2020, the intention of developing a directive was completed in the Ministry of Justice. Maybe you'll find it interesting to know that I'm not going to count all the ministers who coordinated this design, but I will bring out the people of your own party. The Minister of Finance, Martin Helme, agreed on the intention to develop and wished that all subjects of financial supervision should be covered, not just the obligation to have a directive, that is, he wanted to extend it. It also indicated that the amendment to the AML/CFT Act, which created a safeguard mechanism for whistleblowers, entered into force on 20 July 2020. The draft was initiated by Martin Helme and was dealt with under the chairmanship of Mr Aivar Koka, the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Minister of the Interior Mart Helme agreed on the intention to develop by supporting the creation of a single horizontal regulation. He specifically raised the need for a communication channel for security-related authorities. The latter is, in particular, the choice of each country in accordance with the directive, which is in no way a result of the directive, i.e. an extension. He pointed out that notification of infringements under European Union law requires a notification channel and the protection of the notifier in cases of non-compliance with national law. For example, embezzlement of money, procurement. He also wanted small municipalities to set up at least a common internal information system. Perhaps there were three wishes to go beyond this directive. It also considered it reasonable to create a central technical solution for information. Similarly, the Minister of Foreign Affairs welcomed the broader approach to the Reinsalu Directive and recommended that the approach be extended, on long grounds, further, more specifically to provide the notifier with [protection] in addition to reporting offences and misdemeanours in other cases, such as [if] risks to public health, safety, the environment. It also pointed out that although the general rules for the protection of the notifier should not apply to national security, classified information and criminal proceedings, the creation of protection may be considered in these cases as well. Perhaps once again, a desire for expansion. It lists all the areas that should be down here that were not foreseen by the directive, i.e. any wish to expand. In this case, as I said, this initiative is intergovernmental. You were behind this initiative, the Fatherland was behind this initiative, the Centre Party was behind this initiative. Now that we have the government, we support and are behind the initiatives you have taken. So an incredible consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U90	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U91	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister! Can you tell me which problem will still be solved in this case? Where, then, can a man not complain today? We have a prosecutor's office in the event of violations of laws or of interests, there is a police department, there is a kapo, there is a Labour Inspectorate, there is a Financial Inspectorate, there is consumer protection and so on. You can complain anywhere. Where can't you put it? Why do you need what you see in this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U92	I already said that, but I'm going to go over it again. Firstly, the aim of the draft is to ensure protection once the infringement has been notified in a professional manner. Secondly, the aim is to detect and eliminate illegal acts as early as possible and thereby minimise potential harm. Third, the [objective] is to establish a legal clarity as to how the organisation, inside and outside the organisation, has to deal with professional violations. Again, as a result, the organisation will be able to react more quickly to the violation and the damage to society and the organisation will therefore be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U93	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U94	Thank you. Good lord! You said that Maris Lauri gave us a thorough overview at first reading. Actually, that wasn't the case. First of all, he didn't give us a thorough overview, he lied to the vassal. He was caught lying about the Riigikogu's remote control when he said that the hate speech law was not dealt with by the government. Yet the internet is full of his own words that the hate speech law will come, and the government will begin to develop it immediately. Moreover, and these are his own words: the law of hate speech comes with a prison sentence. My question is not whether or how or for what words this government would suggest that someone should be punished or imprisoned, but why there is a minister in your government who lied about the Riigikogu's remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U95	Thank you. I don't have these verbs right now, and I can't tell if he lied or didn't lie. You're always accusing everyone of lying, but it's not like everyone can lie. Paragraph 12 of the Constitution provides that hate should be prohibited by law. At present, it is in the Penal Code, if I remember correctly, in § 152 or § 153, which bans hatred only if it causes injuries or real harm to people's lives and health. At the same time, the constitution is much wider. The Constitution says that hate is already inherently forbidden, and the consequence does not have to be that someone is actually hurt. We initiated the regulation of the hostile speech when the Reform Party was in opposition. We started a bill like this. We have always stood for less hatred and less incitement to hatred in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U96	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U97	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I also read the directive with great care. Indeed, all kinds of slogans can be said. If there's "money laundering" and "terrorism" inside, then officials might get a little carried away. But you also need to sober up in time. In any case, the requirement of the directive was that [must] be notified in the event of a breach of European law, but we have a party attached; Estonian law is also included there. There are a lot of things going on under Estonian law. Why add a party to the matter if there is no factual need to do so? Not all the euro standards that come to us are gold; we have all experienced that, you too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U98	Thank you. First of all, that is perhaps a mistake that I somehow thought that the members of the Riigikogu or politicians were behind their words, whether they are in opposition or in the coalition. You seem to have a different position depending on whether you're in or out of government. Let me remind you once again that your own political party's chairman has coordinated the intention to develop this directive in relation to it and wished it to be wider in order to bring down the subjects of financial supervision, not just those subject to the directive. It also pointed out that there should also be a broader safeguard mechanism under the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act. As I said, [the] Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, also wanted it to be wider, so that there should be a communication channel in security-related institutions, perhaps it should be wider, and he also wished that there would be at least a common information system in small municipalities, which was once again wider [Treaty]. Urmas Reinsalu's approach was much wider. As I said, he wanted it to be extended to include public health, safety and the environment. Really, this bill has been fried for so long, since 2018. While your [party] was in the government, as I read out, your ministers made an important contribution. We will continue the work you have done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U99	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U100	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Lord, thank you for this pleasant historical review. But I have to say, you're really wrong. There's no general association like that. On several occasions you referred to a dear colleague, Urmas Reinsalu, who, on several occasions, contributed to this draft or rather to the directive, and Raivo Aeg, too. But you see, one draft or idea becomes a political document and a draft when it is presented to Parliament and Parliament expresses its political will during this procedure. I haven't been in the government. You're saying, I don't know that we're going to look at history and that I'm supposed to support all these things somehow. It was only in the previous point that we were dealing with, that Margit Sutrop spoke a very different story from you and Liina Kersna. People have different views, even if they belong to a single party. Some, from the point of view of Parliament, are looking at their own point of view and others are looking at their own in the government again. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Do you agree that during your government, this bill was brought to Parliament and that Maris Lauri represents the views that are there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U101	Yeah, thanks! I listened very carefully to how you are now linking it together: the fact that Urmas Reinsalu has been lucky to have this whole thing, now that he is a member of the Riigikogu, no longer matters. [[A voice from the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] No, there is also the intention to develop and the desire to provide a broader approach. I may overemphasise: I absolutely agree with you that Parliament will express its political support when it becomes a draft. You have this opportunity, because this bill is currently in Parliament. Parliament will discuss it in committees, make its proposals and amend it, then vote on it. It's an opportunity. So, yes, different governments have developed this bill, in the end it has arrived here at the Riigikogu and the final will is still expressed by the members of the Riigikogu, the parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U102	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U103	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, It's so typical, it's "but you did it, but actually you did it, you're the one who's responsible for what you're doing right now." It's a kindergarten you're representing there right now, it's not the Prime Minister who's acting like this. Why did Martin Helme put these extensions there? Massive money laundering, the greatest money laundering in history, which your ministers are not responsible for to this day, which was the reason. [[Kaja Kallas is laughing.]] You can laugh now, but you're laughing at yourself in this case, so you'll understand. My question is, why do you attribute to us this option that you have put on our table and that smells bad? We have not coordinated this option; we are not those who bring this option to Parliament. We are protesting against this option, which you have now brought to Parliament. Do you understand that? Please answer yes or no!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U104	Thank you. Doesn't it seem strange to you that you're throwing yourself at me... [[Mart Helme comments from the post.]] If you scream all the time when I'm gonna answer you... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Mr. Helme, if you're yelling at the same...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U105	Prime Minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have a request, let's take a little tone off both sides. [[Mart Helme comments from the post.]] The member of the Riigikogu asked, the Prime Minister answers. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U106	Yeah, it's not possible to answer if you're yelling at me at the same time. [[Mart Helme comments from the post.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U107	Can we now have peace and quiet in this Chamber so that we can proceed with our answer? [[Mart Helme comments from the post.]] I'm asking for silence in the hall! [[Mart Helme comments from the post.]] Prime Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U108	Can I answer now, or are you still gonna yell at my answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U109	I'll take the manager's break three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U110	So Mart Helme can leave the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U111	Good fellows! The chairman's recess is over. We're on questions, questions and answers. The question has been asked. Prime Minister, it's time for you to answer now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U112	Thank you. I'll answer Mart Helme, who may have left the room, but I'll answer. This draft has now been submitted to Parliament and Parliament can shape its decision. If this draft is disliked, amendments can be tabled, voted, adopted or not adopted. This is a completely parliamentary choice. I still wanted to say, for the sake of the verbatim, that, by making a complaint to me, the gentleman acted the other way around. So, follow my words, but not my actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U113	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U114	Thank you, good Chairman. Good lord! It could be comicical that you're pointing a finger at us here, but it's really pathetic. As you yourself have read, we wanted to include money laundering and security issues, but all this disgusting, all this creation of a community of snitching is your spiritual birth. Your government is trying to force it on us. By the way, I looked at the composition of the president's office. Your bill states that constitutional institutions must also complain. There's about 60 people working there. Please describe to me how now our very honorable and honourable President is going to complain in your vision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U115	Thank you. Constitutional institutions, like members of the Riigikogu, do not fall under any such draft. I am not familiar with the details of this bill, I logically conclude that this is the case. But what I referred to, and which you yourself referred to in your question, is that your ministers wanted to extend the scope or scope of the draft. It really is true that they not only agreed that this was a good idea, but [they thought] that it should extend to more subjects than it was in the directive. That was the side.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U116	Henn Põllaas, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U117	Thank you. Here, ladies and gentlemen have repeatedly, again and again had to point out that the Prime Minister does not answer the questions, but instead blames the other governments, the other persons, the previous [government], of course. I ask you once again: make a note to the Prime Minister that he is here to answer the questions in substance, not just to get out of your mouth.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U118	Thank you. It is true that the members of the Riigikogu are here at the moment to ask the members of the government, specifically the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is here right now to answer. It is not for the President to decide how well asked and how well answered. But I think we're all trying to get better. Let's move on. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U119	Thank you, Mr President. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Dear Kaja Kallas! You answered Moonika Helme's question about Maris Lauri's lying that you don't know what to say because you haven't read the verbatim. Now I have the question that if you read the verbatim and you see that Maris Lauri has lied, what will your behaviour be like after that for Maris Lauri when it turns out that you think he's been lying too? I remember very clearly how the entire Reform Party was on its hind legs and demanded our minister to leave. I mean, Kert Kingo, whose guilt I'm not going to make any assessment at the moment. I'd like to know what's waiting for Maris Lauri if it turns out she's been lying. Is he going to continue as a minister or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U120	Thank you. That is what Minister of Finance Martin Helme said, as I recall, that there is absolutely no place to lie about politics, and as a result you yourself released Minister Kert Kingo from office. It wasn't even a motion of mistrust.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U121	Aivar Chef, please! I'm sorry! Sorry, Aivar Chef! There are procedural questions. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Our Rules of Procedure and Working Procedures provide for the following procedures: There are enquiries which, according to semiotic interpretation, require a member of the Riigikogu to learn something. It's perfectly understandable. A member of the Riigikogu asks questions. Next, my understanding of it is also yours all the time stressing this questioning. This means that if a question is asked, that question will be answered. I have always heard in this Chamber what the President of the sitting says that the questioner asks and the respondent answers, don't you? This logic applies in principle to inn rooms somewhere, I think, where you can talk about any kind of random conversation, but in this Parliament, the subject is a little different. A member of the Riigikogu wishes to receive [answer] questions about the governance of the state. This means that it is not worth doing here, but it is necessary to answer the question of a member of the Riigikogu in particular. A specific example is also my question right now. I asked what measures would be taken if the Prime Minister also found out that Maris Lauri had been lying. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'd expect an answer to this particular question, not some story about a hole in the garden when they say you let him go yourself. I want to know what's gonna happen to this lie. There should still be a specific guideline for the answer to the question, because otherwise a format such as an enquiry will lose absolutely no meaning. Good manager! I wouldn't want you to say another sentence that the questioner asks and the answerer answers. No, there's another format. This is the Riigikogu, it is about discussing important matters for the state and there must be a specific answer. I'm saying we have to get out of this kind of random template where some kind of bubbles are being driven from that remote control. If there is a question, there must be a specific answer. Please tell me if you agree or disagree.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U123	Thank you. I agree with the questioner asking and the answer. You know, Mr Grünthal, very well, it follows from our Home and Working Procedures Act that the President does not interfere with the content of questions and answers, how good, how high-quality and how specific these answers or questions are. In any case, I agree that questions can always be formulated even better and that more precise answers can always be given. I'm sure it'll be better. Prime Minister, I think you have the right moment to go to the government of the Republic box because it takes a little longer here with these procedural questions. You may, of course, be in the Riigikogu Chair, but you can also go there nicely. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U124	Thank you. I don't really want to take a long time or formulate my question for long. Our ruler could still have been on the remote. But I will come back to what you said, that you will not interfere, that the questioner asks as he asks, and the respondent answers as he answers, you do not intervene. But why did you intervene in the words of a good colleague, Peter Ernits? Why do you act selectively?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U125	Thank you. No, I certainly do not work selectively on content. When it was intermission, I explained it to Peter Ernits, and so it is. But when we talk about content, I think that the President will certainly not say whether there has been enough answer, whether it has been answered right or wrong. This is always the responsibility of the respondent, and what the questioner says about it and what he asks is the role of the questioner in the form of enquiries. That's right. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U126	Thank you! I agree partially with your answer to my question. The questioner asks what he asks, and the respondent answers what he says. But with this approach, good Jüri, if we just give the respondent a completely arbitrary opportunity to talk at this remote point about anything, even the fairy tale of the Mosques of Bremen City, to any question [on the answer], this format will lose absolute relevance in the sense of questioning. Anyway, what's the point of us sitting here? The question is, however, that the Riigikogu's management should have a firm conviction that the answer must also relate to the question. You're opening Pandora's box right now: no matter what we ask, the answer will do something, I don't know, a fairy tale book. I know you don't like three bears' fairy tales about answering, and I'm not going to ask you about it, am I? I'm going to follow the fairy tale of the Bremen Mosques. Permission to answer the questioner in this way leads to the fact that the recipient of the work, or government, does not really answer questions. Please stay out of this format. This only leads to destruction in the meaning of the questioning format.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U127	Thank you. Any more procedural questions? No, it's not. Thank you! I request the Prime Minister of the Riigikogu Chair. Let's move on to the question of the number 114. So, I guess we're now... Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! When you answer your speeches and questions, you have said that [the previous ministers] have been responsible for everything since Martin Helme and ending with Urmas Reinsalu, which is that the previous government has done everything. As Prime Minister at the government meeting, you coordinated this bill and sent it to the Riigikogu. Here comes my question: do you agree with these people and do you still have the Fatherland and the EKRE in your government, but not the Reform Party and the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U129	Thank you. That is what I said: we have not taken the view that if this is your bill, it is automatically bad, because the previous government has initiated it. No, it's not. We have supported the drafts put forward by the opposition, we have supported the drafts developed by the previous government. I think it is a good political culture that if there are things that different parties have stood for which they have expressed their views, then they can go on. In my opinion, there is nothing wrong with this, I am in no way blaming anyone, but I have pointed out that it is not just our initiative, but from 2018 your party has also carried it directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U130	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! In this sense, you did correctly mark the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the intention to develop, saying that it says'may consider'. In order not to confuse the idea, I will take it in hand and quote: "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs agrees with what has been stated in the VTK that it is reasonable to make the most of the supervisory mechanisms already in place. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs proposes to consider, in the course of further work, with the relevant competent authorities... " You added an equal sign that if you could consider it, you would agree with anything. Perhaps you could expand or specify where you took Urmas Reinsalu's agreement with all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U132	If he says that, in addition to what is in the directive, one might consider adding more of these areas, then I do not know, a semiotician next to you may advise you that I would read from there that he agrees with what is in the beginning and might consider adding other things. The sentence you put forward is not said anywhere: I object.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U133	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U134	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister! The Fatherland Party has not approved this draft in any form, or even the idea of which the draft has been born today and which we are discussing here, as a political party, I stress. If one or the other of our people has been involved in some sort of operation at some stage and not in a completed bill, but in a certain stage of the procedure for some kind of block, that does not mean that he should support it in this form. After all, I am not ashamed to admit that I too am able to evolve and, if there is a change of opinion on one or the other matter, I also dare to admit it. But I have not had this need in the procedure for this draft. My question to you is this. As head of government, do you see any risks and risks in this bill? Can this draft entail any risks and risks, or do you not see them, and there are no risks or threats? If you can see, please comment on which ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U135	Thank you. Yes, we can argue who has done something, but really, purely those facts that have been put forward are: in mid-2020, the Ministry of Justice prepared the intention to develop, it was sent to coordination, all the ministers who responded agreed with the intention to develop it and some more comments. In addition to those that I have already said, for example, for Tõnis Lukas, who was then Minister of Culture, there was a request to involve sports representatives in the fight against doping, or to extend this possibility even further. But do I see the risks and the dangers? The risks and risks associated with all regulations. I believe that this debate here in the Riigikogu is very welcome. If you see these risks and risks, this bill can be made better in the process than to reduce these risks and risks. But certainly not everything can be grounded with any bill. We do not foresee all the circumstances that may arise. It has also been the case that many laws have had to be improved later. I believe that it is Parliament's wish that such changes should not be made often, but they still do. There's nothing unusual about that either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U136	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U137	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! First of all, I say I'm at least as evolutionary as Helir-Valdor Seeder. I then congratulate the fact that, indeed, very many transpositions of directives are not government decisions born overnight in any way. There's a very long process back there, it concerns the work of several governments. It is a good thing that your answers reflect this development, which we may have seen in different governments on a somewhat foreign subject. I also certify that Urmas Reinsalu was one of the most hardworking members of the government. I'm very impressed if his signature on some documents is random or if his comments aren't worked out. But I'm asking you this. Very much has been discussed how this bill has reached this point. Let me ask you very briefly: do we really take over the directive in the minimum volume and what is the change that Estonia could have? We are not really talking about snitching or such questions. What is this change, which is the transparency we want to achieve, and the protection we want to offer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U138	Thank you. This change that we want to achieve is that workers are not afraid, for example, if they see corruption leaders or such problems, to report them precisely because they are afraid of losing their jobs. The draft provides for a mechanism for protecting such people. The aim is to prevent such violations early and to respond early, which should lead both the organisation and society to win.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U139	Thank you, Prime Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mart Helme! Just in case, I'm asking if there's anyone who wants to speak on behalf of the inquisitors. Does Mikhail Lotman want to speak on behalf of the heirs? Mart Helme will be happy to wait for the call of the inquisitors, and then he can come here by himself. Please, Mikhail Lotman!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U140	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! My speech is more or less the same as the rejoinder I wanted to make. But since there's more time, I'll start with 15th-century Venice. The Venice Republic was at that time one of the most prosperous, economically, culturally and so on, and also militaryly very powerful. But then there was this idea that there was a lot of corruption. In the early 16th century, several secret mailboxes were erected in front of the Dodzh Palace. They were either the head of a man or the head of a lion [shaped], but where there was a mouth, there was a shutter in the mailbox. On it it was written: "Secret announcements about anyone hiding goods, services, and so on. " The Venice Republic was to a large extent an interesting place, an anonymous place. There were very limited periods of the year when you could walk without a mask. People were anonymous on the streets. However, long queues arose at night in the dark near those mailboxes. The result? These complaints had to be processed. In Venice, the penal authorities were on the level, but then they needed to be increased. As you know, there were two inquisitions in Venice. But then there were other secret organizations in Venice that dealt with complaints and punishment. At first, it was more or less reasonable: aside from the fact that it had been dug, there had to be two other independent proofs. But later it turned out it was a very cumbersome procedure, and then it was just enough to complain. It was said then that you didn't need an enemy, but you need to have a good friend, and it will inevitably take you to the Inquisition prison. The result was as follows. First, corruption began to grow very fast in Venice. Secondly, the decline of the Venice Republic was to a large extent linked to the fact that the penal authorities were taking too much funds. Why am I talking about this? What is Venice, which is the Soviet Union and so on? But at the University of Cambridge, I gave this example when Maris Lauri was here, a lecturer used a politically incorrect word, a horrible thing, an n-word. In fact, he used it in a quote, and he himself admitted that he did not like the use of that word, but no quote is a quote, it is the history of literature, and the words "n" have been used in literature. Well, they complained about him, and then this volunteer committee was made to deal with complaints like this. At first, there are no sanctions, but these faculty members are called out, spoken to, explained to them their mistakes, and the promise is taken that they will no longer behave like this. Again, I want to make an incorrect comparison. In the last 70th century, I was called to the KGB, and there I was called up. After all, in Perestroika, I didn't look at those archives, but they said it was written that Mikhail Lotman was pro-phylaxisd. That's exactly the word, prophylacted, called to face, so he'll know. I don't want anything like that in front of me. I understand that there is... Is there an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U141	Sure. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U142	I understand that there are areas relating to national security, corruption on a large scale, crimes against the environment and so on. But this is Pandora's box, where, like, there's no fixed things you can complain about. This list is free. I think there are very important limitations here. I just want to confirm that when we did this question, we weren't distracted. You said that the previous speaker was in favour, that is, I am in favour of the Euro Directive. No, absolutely not. But what we accept is even worse. That doesn't mean that what's not that bad is good. At the same time, it was a bit perilous to hear that for you such great authority were Mart and Martin Helme, that what they had planned, this government was about to execute. I don't know if they planned this, but I think whether they planned it or not, I don't think these things are or must be directives for the current government. We have, of course, the opportunity here to correct this shameful bill, which, I think, is correct to call Pavlik Morozov's bill. But we know how these things work in the Riigikogu: the coalition always has the opportunity to go over all the improvements. The last one is that the timing is very strange, as if it were the most pressing problem in Estonia today. Universities don't get money, foreign policy situation and so on, but whistleblowers aren't protected, and that's what we're going to do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U143	Now, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Kaja Kallas! Colleagues! Well, what's there to say about this thing? To put it this way: from week to week, I will be more and more convinced that there is no point in asking questions to Kaja Kallas, neither in Question Time nor in enquiries, because we cannot get answers. If I ask for a specific answer, yes or no, then the reputable respondent will take the role of lawyer and will begin to hold the charges against the accused. This is not an adequate course of action. The Prime Minister, who is responsible for the policy of the state and its implementation, and the drafts coming from the government, which must be dealt with by Parliament, cannot do so. It's not rational behavior. This is political activism, which has nothing to do with lawmaking and government governance, to be honest. That's one. Secondly, the Prime Minister has not understood the fact that he has worked in the Riigikogu for several years and has been the head of government for a year and a little bit after one very important thing: the intention to draft the bill is not the same as the final product of the bill. The intention to draft the bill is like a proposal to boil an axe soup. The axe comes from the European Commission in the form of a directive, and the ministries start to stick in it, who owns their carrot, who owns their own potato, who owns their own cabbage. Whether this soup comes out as an end product, no one knows about potato, carrot or cabbage adders. But we'll finally see this axe soup here. Who presented this particular draft? Did not present Martin Helme, did not present Mart Helme, did not present Urmas Reinsalu, did not present Raivo Aeg. Presented by Maris Lauri. Consequently, the responsibility for what was brought before us for the proceedings lies not with those who agreed with their comments on the intention of cooking the axe soup, but with the one who cooked the axe soup to the end and brought it to us to eat. You could understand that, assuming there's a functional ability to think. Assuming it exists. Why were there any additions made? I tried to reach Martin, unfortunately I didn't succeed because he's at school trials with a child, in short, he's doing his child's education right now, just at times falling like this, and unfortunately he can't come to explain himself right now. But I briefly also said in the context of my question. You know very well that our government has undertaken massive money laundering [investigation] in banks operating in Estonia during the long-term governance of the Reform Party. In this context, he felt that it was also necessary to strengthen the flow of information in the financial sector. Information on the movement, not the snitching. It could also be understood that political activism is not a precedent, but a capacity for functional thinking and a desire for cooperation. The will to cooperate! The last one, it seems, the government generally doesn't. If we pull all this together, what are we going to get? We are getting to the point that there is no political group in this Chamber whose members would not be seriously reluctant to deal with this draft. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U145	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U146	There are people in all political groups, including the Reform Party Group, who think that this is a completely inappropriate law. And why? Because now I'm taking the position of replyer and I'm starting to throw accusations at you during your government, as a result of the same political activism, the total overexistence of this country, society is so broken up that everyone is afraid of the emergence of a society of mass inaction, on which this particular draft lays the foundation. Your government has driven society to the perp. Look at the protests! And don't come again and say, "But you do, but you do. " Our last demonstration must have been October 23. In short, what was opposed to the price of electricity [the rise], "The price of electricity is down!" that was our arrangement. No other demonstration that has taken place near Stenbock's house, this car protest or any other protest, has been organised by us. We haven't put a cent in it, we haven't made a commercial, we haven't arranged a transport. Nothing. So don't come here again to point the finger at yourself. We ourselves are very modest. The result of this split-up of an over-ideologized society is that even the most sensible proposals that may be contained in this draft are currently not supported. No support can be found. There are relatively few people my age here, but people my age remember the climate of fear that prevailed when we were kids. When the car stopped in front of the house, everyone froze because they were afraid they'd come for someone. When people at the workplace were talking, sometimes when they were drinking, some sort of anecdotes, you could be sure somebody came and knocked, but it was talking about this anecdote and it was talking about this anecdote, and it's still a raging anti-Soviet element, and it's a chatter. I remember that. All working collectives had informants. And now you want to introduce the law into the informant institution. Are you out of your mind? In Soviet society, you want to re-incorporate Soviet society with your inevitable axe soup! Well, it won't work. This bill will stand here in the Riigikogu. With regard to Maris Lauri's lying to the end, it is fixed in the verbatim, and it is also available in the media, as images, it is available, how he clearly states: "The law of hate speech comes and comes with prison sentences. " Shake, who do not agree with us, because you are our enemies, and behind us is the European Union with its directives! But we don't, we don't agree. We believe that Estonia is a sovereign republic that decides for itself what is good for its citizens. European directives can only be supportive here, as a voluntary expression of our will.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U147	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U148	All right, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, it was appalling to learn that Urmas Reinsalu and EKRE actually did something here, but the Reform Party only carried out what Reinsalu had invented and confirmed. That's great. Although, yes, it was not a matter of substance but of procedure. This makes it such a heretic idea that the next time the Fatherland or the EKRE are in power, we should adopt legislation that says that as soon as the President proposes to the Reform Party to form a government, the Reform Party will resign immediately the next day. They're just putting it into practice because we've done it this way. But okay, joke. In fact, I thank Mikhail Lotman very much for this great fishing mumble when he was talking here about prophylacy. I can say yes, right here, our beloved Prime Minister got a lot of prophylaxis. But it's for business, really. In fact, because what they are trying to do here is a serious legal rap. There's just nothing to say. I am very sorry that I did not receive an answer from the Prime Minister when I asked what the organs that are being created and what is missing, so I cannot complain. I read out that we have all the organs, we have the kapo, we have the police, the Labour Inspectorate, the Financial Inspectorate and whatever. There was no answer to that. Just the question is that we have no shortage of anything. This law is not necessary for anything. But it shows what our society lacks. What is our lack of legislation and our lack of legal culture is going to come out. § 93 and 94 of the Constitution say what the government must do: the Prime Minister must lead the government; government ministers must lead the officials. In the sense that they would develop sensible and necessary things rather than deal with what we do not need. But right now, we're dealing with what we don't need. Very clearly. Here is the contact that Mart Helme has repeatedly stressed that our country's greatest shortage is a lack of independence. Yes, we are not dealing with legislation, but we are numbly taking over regulations and directives, we are not even bothering to do something sensible for ourselves there, but we are simply being taken over numbly and turned on 50 winks. Awesome! We're more Popes than the Pope himself. Well, that's what I said many times. One quote: "We need independence precisely so that Estonia can take its own path so that we do not have to take over foreign stupidity. So that Estonia can be the smartest and the best. " Those words have been said by the Chancellor of Justice, Ülle Madise, by the way. It shows, on the other hand, that this is the point of pain that even he could sense and what we experience here every day. Our problem, and I want to go over it emphatically, is that, to a huge extent, there is an overregulation of our law. Directives and regulations that we have nothing to do with and no one needs will climb through the door and window. And what's the worst part about it? The worst of all is, as the Prime Minister said in this case, that we are going to suppress the increase in hatred or hatred, we are going to fight hatred, but I can say, Prime Minister, all the good listeners and viewers, that the more we adopt these European regulations and directives, the greater the gap in our society, the greater the enmity in our society. We need to cut red tape; we need to reduce the laws, not adopt them enormously. One simple example. Well, a real classic pact of evil. This is the GDPR or the [protection] general regulation of personal data. We lived in our own personal data protection law since 2004, and there are no problems with that. Now the European Union has passed this great law, which is 400 pages, which could be said to be ten times the size of our own regulation. Has it been of any use to us? No, it's just more problems and more. So this is the call: dear officials, dear government, let us not do foolish things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U149	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U150	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to make a serious criticism of the chairmen of our sitting, absolutely everyone. It has been done here for a long time that a narrative has been introduced, that the questioner asks and the respondent answers, and that the President of the sitting has no right to interfere in the content of the reply. I must say that I cannot accept an approach that has perhaps evolved here over time. This is for the following reasons. First of all, what we were dealing with today, an inquiry into the draft law on the notification of infringements, started after the first question was made in writing. When our ruler came here to answer the remote, I must admit that, in any case, these answers still relate to some of the questions raised in the inquiry. They didn't tell a fairy tale or three bear fairy tales about the Mosques in Bremen City. It remained more or less in format. But according to our Rules of Procedure, every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask an oral question, and there is a question that has arisen, or rather the chairmen of the sitting of the Riigikogu have allowed for a situation in which no matter where you can talk about this remote control. I would not like to agree that, if there is an answer to a question, the use of the word is absolutely free. Let me give you an example of a comparison of court proceedings. If, for example, a judge or one of the parties asks questions in court proceedings, the question will not be left until a specific answer is given. In view of my practice, I must admit, by putting my hand on my heart, that I have also been spinning, but in the end I have still been forced to answer exactly as the question was. In fact, the role of the President of the sitting should be that, when a question is asked, it is his duty to stand up for the question to actually be answered. On this additional oral question, I do have very serious complaints to the chairmen at the moment. I am not going to look further away for an example of what took place in today's sitting. That was when Moonika Helme raised the question that Maris Lauri lied and how that was possible. Then the answer to the ruler was such that he had not come to know the verbatim. I understand. Maybe I'm not. But when I happened to ask what happens after the verbatim report has been read and the ruler sees that Maris Lauri, as Minister of Justice, has still lied to the members of the Riigikogu about what action he is taking in this regard, unfortunately, there was no answer to it, Kert Kingo was told. Maybe I didn't actually get an answer to my question at that point because the answer was shunned. Here it is the duty, right and obligation of the President of the Riigikogu to ensure that a specific question is answered. I'd ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U151	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U152	This issue should certainly be discussed by both the Assembly of Elders and the Riigikogu, because otherwise this format, answering questions and, of course, Question Time will lose absolutely meaning, because what is the point of going together if no answers are received. In fact, the Labour and Rules of Procedure Act, which regulates our activities, says specifically: a member of the Riigikogu may ask a question and the respondent will answer the question. This interpretation gives the answer to a specific guideline that it has no independent right not to answer the question by using any other form of use that does not relate to the matter. To conclude, I will pass on the following message to our ruler, which just came to me on the way to the message: "I, as well as other Estonian citizens and the voters of the Riigikogu, ask the Prime Minister for a clear answer to the question put by Kalle Grünthal, what will happen to the Minister of Justice, Maris Lauris, who lied to the Riigikogu?? (Three question marks! (K.G.) Will the Prime Minister call him back? After all, all the people watching this trial saw that Lauri was lying. " The next part of the message: "Please read this text now to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. " The next part: " I will not hide my name if you need to mention it when you ask a question. " The author of the question is Raul Renter. The next and final paragraph is this: "The Prime Minister could consider that he not only communicates with you there like in the cafeteria, but that all the people of Estonia can follow the sessions of the Riigikogu live" and also want answers to the question asked by Kaja Kallas. " This is now the message of one man from the people; many more came. I specifically read it so it wouldn't remain anonymous. Now, good ruler, you have the opportunity in the final part of this inquiry to save your reputation in principle and answer specifically the question that the people are now waiting for: what will become of the lied minister of justice, Maris Lauris? Of course, you can speak the fairy tales of the city of Bremen again or not answer at all, but be aware that in the light of the forthcoming Riigikogu elections, your renomee will not be good. That is, of course, if you do not rely solely on the results of the e-elections, which I think it makes no sense to speak at all without criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U153	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind all of us that we are currently [in consultation] having an inquiry into the draft law on notification of infringements. If there is a desire to discuss in a free microphone how someone must answer or not, then it is really another format. Also in § 72 of our Rules of Procedure Act, Mr Grünthal, I remind you that we must stick to the agenda and to the item on the agenda. But now, does Helle-Moonika Helme have a request for an answer to this particular speech by Mr Grünthal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U154	Thank you. As I was mentioned in the speech, I would like to make such a small remark that Maris Lauri not only lied about answering a certain question here regarding the hate speech law, but also lied about this draft. You can also look it up in the verbatim. In commenting on this law, he said that the creation of an entity in labour collectives or institutions provided for by law is not an obligation for an undertaking, but an opportunity. But in this law it is correct in many places and in several paragraphs that it is an obligation for companies and institutions. That word's all over it. So this little lie, if it was still wrong, not incompetent, is also wrong, and that is Maris Lauri's lie. So he has repeatedly lied at the top of the Riigikogu and repeatedly we have raised this issue here today. I have a request to our Prime Minister to deal with this issue so that he deals with his party and his government's lying minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U155	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U156	Good manager! Honourable Sire! Colleagues! Directive 2019/1937 is not very long, it consists of 29 paragraphs. [Article] 2 states clearly what it touches. It concerns violations of European Union law in the following areas: public procurement, money laundering and financial services, product development, nuclear threat and radiation protection, and a few other things. That is the whole content of this directive. We have, for some reason, been grafted here into all other national messes, as Mr Mart said: carrots, cabbages, turnips, whatever. I don't know who grafted them on it. Two women are mentioned as drafters, one named Kätlin-Chris and the other named Mare. I don't think Kätlin-Chris and Mare grafted all that internal vegetable there by themselves. But the explanatory memorandum doesn't say who ordered all this national vegetables to be added to it. The Directive was to be adopted by 17 December 2021 at the latest. What else is there? On 23 October, 17 February, yes, December 2023, the private sector, if [the organisation] has 50249 employees, has to report on how they have opened these channels and set things right. What else? Reporting is also on this. Who cares to read [sees] Article 27 states that each country has to report annually to the competent authorities on the number of notifications sent to them by all of these 50-headed collectives. Second point: number of procedures, total. Third, the total amount of financial loss recovered on the one hand and on the other. This is a brief summary of this Directive 2019/1937, which consists of 29 paragraphs. So what's really come up? We've talked about this a lot here. This is indeed a draft by the name of Pavlik Morozov. Do you remember who Pavlik Morozov was? He was a pioneer number one. In 1931, Pavlik was 13 years old, and he complained about his father, Trofim. Father Trofim was supposedly a cuckoo, but in fact he was the chairman of the village council who saved the cuckoo, he gave proof to those who had been expelled that they were not cuckoos and could work at the factory. What was the result? Trophim was tried. In autumn, Pavlik went to the woods for berries, and a few days later his stabbed corpse was found. Stabbings were Father Trofim, Grandpa Vassili... Colleagues, it is not appropriate to laugh at this. But Pavlik became an example for all Soviet time of how to behave when you see an infringement. In this case, we...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U157	Mr. Ernits, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U158	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U159	Please! Three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U160	It's different times. The capital is second. But the customs of the state and now it is important to say that these customs are not coming from Brussels at the moment; they come from the Tallinn Ministry of Justice, where the two women who wrote it together are working [they] probably also coming from the Government of the Republic. But I really don't know who was behind it, who sent us this more modern Pavlik Morozov bill and sent Minister of Justice Maris Lauri to represent it. But the result may be the same as what happened to Pavlik Morozov when he used these channels of communication. He's the one who turned dad in. When you read this bill, [you will see that] there is a very wide, as is said, spectrum, where you must inform who and when. But I would stress: the directive itself is perfectly normal, [considered] so that local rackets do not use euro money as they should not, and follow European laws, nuclear threats and public procurement and other things. But as you can see, we have a highly expanded bill, a local Pavlik Morozov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U161	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't a member of the previous government, and I'm not a member of the current government. But my hand will not rise to vote in favour of this bill. I can also assure you that the Fatherland Party has not discussed this bill in the past, either during the previous government or during its government. Nor have we developed the political view that we support it. In this context, it is not fair or fair to respond today to the question of the Prime Minister when he was constantly talking about how ministries and agencies have dealt with this draft, how ministers have mutually coordinated it. I was reminded of the draft taxation of land discussed last week, which we discussed here, when it was also said that the draft was already dealt with at the Ministry of the Environment during the Pomerania and Kisler Ministers of the Fatherland. That's right, they did it. I remember how they handled it. It was dealt with that it finally arrived at the Coalition Council and the Coalition Council decided that the political decision to approve the draft would not be taken to the Riigikogu. It didn't come. Equalise, at the level of officials and ministries, the process of dealing with an early-stage draft by a political decision taken by the current government in order to bring the draft to Parliament, these two equalising it is not fair and fair. It is not entirely adequate, it does not solve the problems before us, nor does it help in any way to deal with this draft. So, in my opinion, the Prime Minister did not act here on the basis of a very good political culture. But that's it. Let us go specifically to the content of the draft. Why can't I, and why can't the Fatherland Party support this bill? But because this bill undermines social morality. It's dangerous. It's a dangerous bill of inaction. It favors anonymity. But we need, on the contrary, the development of civic courage. We need brave and responsible citizens. It does not contribute to the development of an honest, transparent civil society, such a draft of appeal. After all, today there is an opportunity to report infringements, report offences and crimes to the relevant institutions and organisations. All the more so since the directive itself is indeed mainly concerned with activities relating to the use of common European Union funds, with the development of a common policy, and not with national procedures for which the current draft has expanded. There is no reason for us to extend this already, in my opinion, by its very nature, the wrong direction in the directive itself. It is not right and good to start designing Estonia's new elite, who has privileges, special protection. It even calls for an appeal and different prosecutions. These are very brief and summarised reasons why the Pro Patria Party does not support this draft to become a law. My concern for the Prime Minister's reply, once again, deepened when I asked the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister saw any dangers and risks in this draft. The answer was that yes, there may be risks and risks in any draft, and Parliament will deal with them. So the Prime Minister himself didn't see them. I asked him, if he sees, to describe whether there were any threats or risks to the government during the proceedings. It is likely then to be the ideal bill for not seeing any dangers or risks. I see very serious threats and risks. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U163	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U164	I see very serious threats and risks, especially in terms of morality and ethics. These results will be contrary to what is desired, contrary to the recommendation. By such methods, neither roots nor honest and open civil society grows out of society in terms of corruption and lies. Such a bill does not raise an honest, open and courageous citizenry. Therefore, the Fatherland will do its utmost to prevent this bill from becoming a law. If the government really wants to go to the end, it will probably have to tie it to a vote of confidence and adopt it in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U165	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U166	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Good ambassadors! The previous speaker said that the problem of whistleblowers is an ethical problem. Let me remind you of some of my ethics lessons. Namely, whistleblowing is one of the key topics in business ethics, which I have taught at the University of Tartu for over a decade to students of a wide variety of disciplines. In most cases, my lecture begins with the choice between different values for whistleblowing. One side has honesty and courage and the other side has loyalty. All these are important values. In fact, the question is not that there is a choice between bad values and good values, but that is the kind of group of ethical values whose hierarchy is formed in certain situations. Indeed, when someone chooses to blow a whistle, he chooses honesty and courage, he is the kind of principled person who usually brings himself a lot of trouble because he is not loyal. He is not loyal to the company that works with him, who often has not dared to step out. It feels like he's biting the hand that's been feeding him. Thanks to this very often, studies show that whistleblowers are not successful afterwards. They could lose their jobs. They may find themselves in a situation where no one wants to hire them because they are vague, uncomfortable, too heroic, certain moral saints who are uncomfortable with other people. This problem has been discussed quite a lot in literature and life. Maybe it's good to think about it. It is not born today, not on the tables of the European Union, and certainly not on the tables of our government. The first cases discussed in depth in business ethics relate to cases where someone has blown a whistle, went outside their company or organisation because someone's life is in danger. These cases are said to be morally binding in such cases. One of these is the case of Ford's car factory, when everyone refused to say and do anything, although it was known that the brakes were not working very well on cars, but the purchases were made and they wanted to sell their products well. The next case was when children's food was produced and it became clear that there were certain toxic substances in children's canned food, but the company did not want to set it off because it was hoped that profits would be made. In this case, whistleblowing, if no one in their company agrees, say, do something about it, all stages have been covered, bosses have been approached and people are still trying to cover up, [in this case] going outside their company is morally mandatory, because people's lives are at risk. I think this is the background to why such a directive of the European Union, the directive on reporting infringements, has come to the table at all. There are also many other cases where simply people's courage to rise against so-called certain violations has not resulted either in results or in people's lives, their jobs, their futures are in danger, and they simply cannot bring it out in their own small organisation. Try to think it's in the background. No one directly wants to create a situation where they have to complain about each other or anonymously report any infringements, but they try to find ways to find a way out of very serious offences and sometimes even life-threatening situations. I come back to the Estonian situation. The Estonian situation in this sense is indeed... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U167	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U168	The situation in Estonia is really complicated in this sense, that we have been in a situation where, for ideological reasons, there has been something that has been encouraged. We have lived in a totalitarian society, and we know what that means. Perhaps it is not by chance that the old people in the Riigikogu, the older generation, who I am already part of, are talking about what spying on society can lead to in terms of distrust [in terms of growth]. However, young people outside the Riigikogu also write about how necessary this is. I think it's generations apart. However, as people who come from the occupation period, we should also try to think that there is a difference between doing infringement reporting under the conditions of occupation, in a totalitarian society, or doing so in the rule of law. The European Union is based on the rule of law, and so is Estonia. This directive states that false information and false complaints must under no circumstances be filed and punished. In this sense, the hope is that it will give us the chance that we will not have anything that is being painted here and that they will warn us about. However, I would like to say here today why this has come up in the debate. It seems unfair to me to torture the Prime Minister with questions about what your government wants if the initiation of this case has indeed taken place in the very past. We have this documented, including in the Estonian Päevaleht on 3 February, all documents on how ministers of the previous government, whether Mart Helme or Urmas Reinsalu, have wished to extend this directive and have given it their approval. Perhaps this is precisely why we are sitting here today, although there is a very serious security crisis somewhere, the third world war may begin tomorrow, and we are torturing our internationally active prime minister with these questions. We will try to reason and go back to discussing this bill when the time and place are appropriate when the Riigikogu has the opportunity to make improvements there. I agree that improvements will have to be made. Anonymous appeal should not be allowed. People should have the courage to come out, and if there is a need to hide, confidentiality will be guaranteed, but people should not have the opportunity to complain anonymously. There are a number of things that I'm also willing to do there could be reduced. You could take out those extensions that previous governments have put in there. Courage is very welcome. Let us also be bold to take this directive exactly within the limits that will ensure that infringements are notified in cases where this is indeed necessary to protect people's lives and to protect those things that the law really needs to protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U169	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U170	Good manager! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with the place where my esteemed colleague, Margit Sutrop, graduated. It's not worth talking about what's not a fact. I'm sure it's very important to the lecturer. The previous government has not approved any such drafts at government level. Officials are doing their job, which we often congratulate in this Chamber, very good work, but the decision is finally made by politicians. First the cabinet, the government hearing, and then this bill comes to this hall. I'm sure the officials were working on that during the last term. Discussions on EU directives go unnoticed, but the previous government did not bring such a draft into this Chamber. When the Prime Minister said that the previous ministers were all very much in agreement, this means that the Prime Minister today agrees. I would like to stress once again that such a decision was not taken during the previous government. It's very important. The other half. When the university talks about whistleblowing, there is one very important issue that has never been spoken about in this Chamber today and was not very seriously mentioned at the first reading of this bill either. It's a matter of false complaints. In the case of false complaints, whistleblowing, it is often the case that first complaints are made, then for some reason organisations are investigating when someone is going to be cuffed, and at the same time journalists are present. They're giving interviews where the accused has already been found guilty. We can give a lot of examples if, after the trial, this person is not convicted if the case ever goes to court. It is often the case that in the press, you feel on your skin how four or five years you get sacked, you get chased for years, and then it turns out, the end result is that one person complained, made a false complaint, and in court he finally gets a fine of 200 euros. But some people's lives are completely ruined by it. I can give examples from Tartu County in a row. After he won the trial, the elder of the aging municipality simply gave up his heart. There's a parish elder who was most-most-most in Tartu, but one person to whom he didn't offer a job has written complaints, I think, to all institutions, to ministries. Eventually, the subject was taken up, so to speak, he went through court proceedings, was acquitted. The same person complained again and is being investigated again. This means that [this parish elder] has lost all his jobs and everything else, but he who complained works where he worked before, has not been given any indication. I agree, if you can see that somebody's making a real goat, you have to pay attention, but we have a situation in the country right now... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U171	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U172	... where snitching is very easy for certain people. If you want to get rid of someone, make a complaint, send the same complaint to the press, just in case. And here we go. I had this experience a year ago when an officer said he had nothing to do, the boss would fire him if he didn't make that protocol for that person. After all, this person could go to court to pursue his own justice. The fine is a few hundred euros. A member of the Riigikogu can go to court with lawyers with his salary, but the usual trial costs EUR 15 000 to EUR 30000. Most people give up paying a lawyer because there is not just this kind of money, and even if it is money, it is not what they want for their families to be interested in journalists for years. I think there is a serious question here. I don't know about Stalin's subjects, I haven't lived in Stalin's time, I've been born a little later. I know the neighbor complained that we had a Christmas tree at home every Christmas Eve. It was an argument between two men, between my father and the neighbor. I didn't understand when I was a kid, but it didn't go any further. At the moment, we have brought here the fact that, as owner of businesses, I have to create a situation in the company where it is normal to sue, and someone should be hired to complain. I don't understand that if I have to create such an opportunity, I really should hire someone. I remember 1987, I went to Hungary. One boy immediately said that he was the one who had to report it, he admitted it in the wagon the first night that the vodka was taken, maybe he was just too drunk. Then it was the time of the snitching, 1987, I may have said the wrong year number. But let's think and discuss if there are such things. I am in favour of rooting out any symptoms of corruption if they exist. But I think if anyone wants to complain about someone, there's a chance today. If it's for the right thing, you can't argue about it. But I say once again that, in most cases, it is an empty whistleblow, either by rejecting envy or the subject from my own sins, so that no one else may say anything, because simply this person is killed as a result of the press and investigation. You can tell me it's not my fault, you see, the other one is, but it doesn't interest anyone, absolutely nobody. These false whistle-blowers, I have not yet heard of these people being punished. I understand that even a change of government is very easy at a time like this. I'm not the judge, I'm not telling you who's right, who's wrong. But I think bringing this bill into this hall was definitely the wrong decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U173	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I am absolutely convinced of the adoption of this draft and I will certainly not be able to vote in favour of it. That's pretty clear. Indeed, I dare confirm that, because, indeed, my mandate as a member of the Riigikogu began in 2019, that this bill has not been discussed in the Isamaa Group and, as far as I know, it has not been discussed in the government, not to mention its approval in the government. This is a fundamental point from which to proceed. So, today, we have come to the point that we have such a bill in the process, and now we cannot blame the previous or previous government. But let us take a look at these issues that we have raised in this debate. The first question, indeed, about business ethics, honesty and courage versus loyalty, is a perfectly relevant question, as are the examples given here. Only I do not understand why, if it is a private enterprise that we are talking about, it is important for the state to prescribe this coercion. We have a whole series of international standards that allow us to monitor all processes, including collecting information, if there are errors against any process [rules]. To think that the state is making these companies rich is clearly the wrong way. I would rather say that if there is voluntary certification versus compulsion of the state, there is no doubt which way I am holding it, certainly not towards the state's coercion. It was about business. Indeed, if we look at it more broadly, today's regulations are, in essence, still justified in cases where there is a breach of the Penal Code, they will ensure that, if necessary, a certain level of protection is guaranteed. At the same time, it is also written in the bill that, in essence, no secrecy can be created, thank God. Forced the department to just maybe that's what's said too much, to hire a human being and to make a cost of it, that's totally pointless. Even if this person is fulfilling that obligation, I don't know, part-time, it's definitely a set-off. In any case, it is the money that has been written off, there is no doubt about it. I really did look into that State Department's opinion on the intention to develop. I asked you, too. I asked you my question. Indeed, first of all, it should be noted that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in all its intention to develop, focuses on the analysis of the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, plus this has come from the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U175	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U176	This whole debate will focus on these issues. It has not been brought in that it should add more and more. I quote a few paragraphs: "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs agrees with the statement in the VTK that it is reasonable to make the most of the supervisory mechanisms already in place. " Very, very specific. I don't know where it's taken from to expand. However, it does say that the debate is on the issues proposed by the directive, either in general or in isolation, to each institution. He says that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs proposes, in the course of further work, to consider, together with the relevant competent authorities, whether it might be justified and necessary to entrust this task to a single central authority. Maybe he'll suggest that we consider it, discuss it, think about it. Putting a hundred percent of everything in there is completely arbitrary. I understand this in the sense that the Pro Patria Party would never have approved such a draft if it had come to a group meeting. Never! These are, in fact, the [Thinks] that have been given about these plans to be developed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I really understand that the government is in an awkward situation. The hooray came here, and then suddenly it was noticed that a piece of shit had been taken. It would be good to point the finger at others for this screw-up, but I think it would be right to say today that stop, we will not go on with it, and take it back and take it from the public [debate]. Then we could really focus on security issues, as we have heard here, that there is a need to focus on them, we can deal with energy crisis issues, there are enough concerns that could be addressed. So the recommendation to the government side would be this: we take this draft back and we can move forward with the issues that are important to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U177	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U178	More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U179	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U180	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Historians have long made it clear that myths of 700 years of slavery are not true. Yes, there have been different ages in our history when our people have been freer or not so free. But it seems to me that, nevertheless, this slave mentality is fixed and continues in the minds of a very large number of people, unfortunately, it has to be acknowledged that especially in the head of today's government. We agree with everything. No matter what comes from Brussels, no matter how often a directive or regulation disagrees with everything. There are dozens and dozens of these examples. Let us recall, even in the heart of winter, the ban on spreading manure. Tell me when an Estonian farmer has done such a thing. It's completely unsanitary, and banning it is even worse. We know how carrots have been declared fruit and so on and so forth. For all these things, the same enthusiasm as today's government is forcibly turned on this directive, after all. Let's just remember that pathetic two sink story that must have been in every of the smallest country stores, but that no one really demanded, except our own government. It is very disturbing to point the finger and lie to the previous government, as if the previous government and its ministers had prepared this draft. This is absolutely not true, because this bill was not discussed in the government; this bill was not brought into Riigikogu proceedings; it did not exist. Of course, the directives were discussed, and if it was found that the issue of defence and security and money laundering should be dealt with in depth, then that is not what we are being told today, as if the totalitarian insistence system that today's government wants to create would have been done by the previous government. That's a lie. But this lie has been expressed to us by the Prime Minister right here on the remote, by the Minister of Justice right here on the remote, and it has also been distributed in the media. So I do agree with the question of my fellow Members that what is being done and how and how are the ministers responsible. Worst of all, we are being made clear as if it was an innocent whistleblowing law. I'm sorry! It's anything but whistleblowing. According to this logic, whistleblowing was also when representatives of the occupying power and their henchmen whistled at our people, so tens of thousands of people were deported and thousands were released. Was that whistleblowing? But today the exact same totalitarian orwellic world is being built, we have seen it in a number of draft laws that the government has brought to us here in the Riigikogu. It's only one law in this row. We have mechanisms for whistleblowing. Indeed, if a person discovers any kind of violation of the law, he will be able to turn to the police, the prosecutor's office, or the kapo. All the possibilities have been created. If necessary, it can also be guaranteed anonymity. But this bill is about something else. In addition, it is necessary to start complaining about these things as well, and it is black and white, which is not a violation of the law. In other words, against anything. And it can be done anonymously. Absolutely absurd! If we read this list, who will have to anonymously complain about each other, against our fellow citizens and colleagues, against our relatives, friends and acquaintances, then we will see that there are also constitutional institutions there. We in the Riigikogu also need to start complaining, because we have a lot of more than 50 people working in the office, there are 200 of them here, and there are almost 60 people working in the office of the President, and there must also be complaints and some sort of complaint commissioner. That's absurd! Do you understand? This is what makes this insistence, not whistling, but precisely an anonymous accusation, even mandatory for the whole of society. So calling this law Pavlik Morozov is no exaggeration at all. One day, these knockers will look at why Jüri or Jaan have not ratted on their colleagues. What if there's something suspicious here? In addition to all those who are knocked on, people who do not knock will also be repressed. One day they can expect a knock on the door, but then much more serious, one after which they will be taken away. God knows what the consequences will be because the law requires. The law demands it. So there is no way that such a law can be passed. Such a law is the birth of a sick and blind and sleeping brain, the result of which will be completely cosmic. It destroys and crushes all of our moral and ethical understandings, solidarity and brotherlyness, and it brings forth such low passions. After all, an anonymous informant must be promoted in the future in accordance with this law; he must be highlighted in every possible way; his salary must be raised; otherwise he may find that he has been discriminated against because he knocked. The worst thing is when we think that today's government wants to adopt a hate speech law that destroys freedom of speech and freedom of thought... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U181	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U182	...and run out here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U183	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U184	These two laws in conjunction...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U185	Mr. Pier!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U186	Well, ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't want to live in such a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U187	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I opened up this law because there was one very important point that I did not mention. This is precisely the fact that it says something surprising. Paragraph 4: "A breach within the meaning of this Act is also an act or omission which does not constitute an offence but is contrary to the purpose of the law. " A thinking place. Someone's let the fantasy fly. If we are still working in the law to ensure that the concepts are as precise as possible, then here, because this is how to say, a euro-positive law, the concepts should be given as widely as possible. They said there was something similar in East German law. Otherwise, some technical rules ran nicely, but then there were such things as the genre clauses, under which everything was placed: something in general that could shut down everyone that was needed. It was effective, it worked with German precision. Stasi's archives even filled the husband's complaints with their husbands, so professionally the work had been done. It is clear here that this directive itself is as sad as it is to make some kind of euro-Stasi and certainly startling for everyone who thought that such things could not happen. However, how many times did I read the directive? Well, look at the miracle. We've really put on half this time. Totally willingly! The government actually has a retreat here. I believe that there are some people in the Reform Party who quite seriously believe that they are liberals, and do not understand it. If they could find their file somewhere in the university, you'd find a few things, a few interesting appeals about yourself. So I'm also knocking on these people's consciences that there's gonna be trouble. When we look at the personal scope of the law, we see that it's as wide-cut as the mind can take. For example, it is stated here that under this Act a self-employed person who has been informed of an infringement which has become aware of the protection through an activity of employment. It's one person, too. Perhaps he should also be made a channel through which he sends a message to someone that he is a bad person himself? Repentance, modern penance, opportunity to turn yourself in to organs. The competent authority is its name today, it used to be a body, it's now a competent authority. The person working under the debt contract, the volunteering person is also a personal partner, as well as the shareholder and shareholder of the company. So who's out? I don't have a fantasy right now. Who's missing? The person receiving the athlete's allowance, the person in pre-contractual negotiations, the member of the company's management or control body, the official is all inside. There is no reason to mention all the specialties, the "official" being sufficiently general to cover all officials. The details are also creepy. What is proposed is the possibility to report the infringement via the law firm just a very convenient method. I remember a law firm, or was it a private detective agency, a SIA scandal, what his name was... Extra time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U189	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U190	... and how it reached state level, how information was collected that did not need to be collected. I still remember that. When a number of law firms start putting together sensitive "information" from whistleblowers, dangerous situations may also arise for the state. They like to collect that kind of information. We've seen vile lawyers before. Some have even been expelled from the bar. So this is a whole minefield, the directive is dangerous, and this extension of us does not even have the force of the European Union behind it, it does not make any sense. But it's still possible to retreat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U191	I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We have finished dealing with this question. Doesn't the Prime Minister want to? No.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U192	Okay. We will proceed with our third item on the agenda. This is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Jaak Valge, Martin Helme, Kert Kingo, Paul Puustusmaa, Helle-Moonika Helme, Leo Kunnas, Peeter Ernitsa, Riho Breiveli, Anti Polandmets, Alar Lanemani, Urmas Reitelmanni, Reuben Kaalepi, Heiki Hepneri, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa, Helir-Valdor Seederi, Priit Sibula, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Mikhail Lotmani, Riina Sikkuti, Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare, Eduard Odinets and Heljo Pikhofi into the abolition of the threshold for final exams of the basic school. Please be represented by Riigikogu member Jaak Valge.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U193	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. This inquiry has been pushed by the [signed] draft regulation of the Minister of Education and Research on 26 January, which, if approved, changes the meaning of the final examination with the uniform tasks of basic school. There are a number of questions in the question, but this is the core of the proposed change in the meaning of basic school finals. As we know, comprehensive school finals are in the spring; they are conducted in all [schools] according to the national curriculum in the same way and at the same time. The aim of the comprehensive school final exams is to assess the knowledge, skills and competences acquired in the student's primary school and I stress the decision to complete the school. With the current regulations in place, when completing comprehensive school, the student must receive at least satisfactory annual grades in all subjects and pass uniform national final exams. Examinations shall be carried out at least on a score of three, representing at least 50% of the maximum score. Comprehensive school cannot be completed by a student who has an unsatisfactory result in one subject, both as an annual and as an examination grade. In short, an unsatisfactory result may be an annual price, but at the same time not an examination price. However, according to the proposed amendment, the threshold is not foreseen and therefore graduating from comprehensive school would no longer depend on the outcome of the examination. A situation is created in which comprehensive school can be completed by a student who has three exam scores of zeros and another two year grade unsatisfactory. Thus, there is the possibility that a graduate of primary school does not have to achieve learning outcomes either in Estonian or in mathematics and also in one subject. It's a theoretical opportunity. Okay. It's about the possibility of graduation. But there are also two aspects to this question. Namely, the Ministry of Education and Research started sending the first signals that it wants to change the meaning of the final exams of basic school, already in summer 2019. Further, during discussions in two years, the Riigikogu formed its position and it was a refusal to lose basic school exams that gave feedback on compliance with the standard. Now, the test, indeed, is not about losing the exams, but about changing their meaning. We have a parliamentary state and we have to resolve such an important issue bypassing Parliament, it seems not fair or appropriate, which is because it is possible, formally, to do so with a government regulation. Second extra aspect. During these trials, many, I do not know, I feel that most of the teachers' associations have clearly expressed their opposition to these changes. It must be concluded that the Ministry of Education and Research has not sufficiently consulted practitioners this time. In addition, several educational and cultural figures and institutions, including the Estonian Writers' Union, have expressed their opposition. 14 teachers' associations have made it clear that they do not agree with the proposed changes. Well, who do we trust if not the teachers themselves, who is the salt of our land? In the same way, such an inquiry is inevitable. It seems to me that it is symptomatic that it is presented together by representatives of the three groups. It's a sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U194	I now ask the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, to answer the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Thank you so much for asking! Since there are 11 questions and 20 minutes, I'm not going to make a long introduction. We will certainly be able to continue the debate after we have answered the questions. So I'm gonna start by answering the questions right now. The first question: "Is the comprehensive school national curriculum affordable for our students? " The answer. The national curriculum cannot be drawn up in such a way that all students are able to apply their studies in a uniform manner, even if they are so-called ordinary students. We know people are different, people's abilities are different, interests are different. The curriculum is structured in such a way that at a minimum the child must have acquired the degree programme, but it is certainly possible to acquire significantly more. So I'm sure the curriculum is fit for purpose, but the kids go through the curriculum differently. This is also what we see from current grades. Question two. What impact has the implementation of the principles of inclusive education had on the achievement of the learning outcomes set out in the national curriculum of comprehensive school and has scientific analysis been carried out on this subject? As a measure of effectiveness, we can take the results of PISA as an example. It can be said that, since the principles of inclusive education were confirmed at law level in 2010, Estonia's education performance has been very good when we look at the results of PISA. Our results in international comparison have either remained very high or we have achieved world excellence. But, of course, there is no direct link here that is inclusive education and that is why we have achieved these excellence. Trends concerning student education in Estonia as a whole with the need for support we wish to study with a regular study as early as next year, and the call for a study will be announced this year. But we also have a study carried out by our scientists in Estonia. The research team of the University of Tartu has stated in an article published on the basis of its study that inclusion has a positive impact on the academic achievement of all students as well as on the increase in social opportunities, the continuation of studies and entry into the labour market for students with special educational needs. This is the knowledge that has come to us about science-enabled education. Question 3: "What measures do schools take to support learners to achieve learning outcomes? " The teacher has many opportunities to individualize the study and support the student. For example, a teacher can differentiate his teaching and use tasks of varying degrees, adapt the learning environment, strengthen the teaching resources and organisation of studies, instruct the student individually in an hour, provide feedback on learning activities, recognise the effort and positive attitude, and enable a calm environment to respond, such as [using] individual responses. In addition to the initial individualisation of teaching in the classroom, it is possible to support the student's development in a number of ways in the school. For example, by providing individual additional guidance outside of lessons, through part-time training in groups of a temporary or permanent nature, by implementing an assistant teacher or other supporting staff, by providing support specialist services such as support for a special pedagogy, logopaedic and psychologist, and by developing an individual curriculum for the student, taking into account the interests and needs of the child. I would remind you that under the conditions of the COVID, we have allocated a total of EUR 17 million to schools to level out learning gaps, which will help to provide them with a more individual approach. Question 4: "Over the last few weeks, the Ministry of Education and Research has repeatedly argued that the secondary exams carried out by schools are not so-called 'fair'. What are these arguments based on? If these statements are true, how has the Ministry of Education and Research reacted to such activities in schools? Are these so-called dishonest schools known to HTM? " Maybe somebody's been talking about dishonesty somewhere, but we're actually talking about comparability. It should be noted that the Ministerial Regulation states that the re-examination shall be carried out by 30 June of the current academic year at the latest at the time specified by the School Director and that, at the request of the student, the examination may also take place after 30 June, at the latest on 25 August of the current academic year. In order for students to go to the graduation ceremony with their classmates and receive a comprehensive school certificate before the beginning of the following academic year in order to continue their education, the school exams will actually take place a week or two after the national exam. Given that the re-examinations prepared by the school take place a week or two after the failure of the national exam, this means that these exams must be adapted to the child's standard. Because if we also look at the statistics of the school post-schoolers, the vast majority of those who have failed the national exam and have gone to take the school exam will be able to take the school exam. For example, there have been 20 children among the Estonian language examiners who have not completed the school exam, although these are 8000-9000, depending on the year. For example, what has the School Leaders Association said? In an article published in the Postimees, the School Leaders' Association said: "We must not take re-examinations because of the impression that we are maintaining a high level. In a few days or weeks, a student who did not exceed the threshold will not make any significant progress. Repeat exams are often collective self-deception that does not really help the student with concern. For different students, their next steps and their next courses of study may be different. " It was what the school leaders said. Question 5: "The Estonian Mathematical Society's School Mathematical Society made two proposals to the Ministry of Education and Research in autumn 2021: 1) to present the results of the examinations with the common tasks of the comprehensive school as a percentage; 2) to prepare an ex post examination nationally. Both principles would support the objective by which you justified the regulation that you initiated. Why did you decide to leave the re-examinations to the assembly schools? " I came here from a meeting with the educational players and we agreed there that next year the additional exam would take place nationally. So by May 25 this year, the national exams for the next academic year must be set. We agreed that by then we would reach an agreement among ourselves on the dates for the next year's exams, including the State Supplementary Examination of Comprehensive School Finals. The sixth question: "The organisation of the final exams with the uniform tasks of the comprehensive school was started by the State in 1999. What was the reason, then, for the tests to have a performance threshold, and in what part have these reasons changed to date? " That is a very good question. When we think about the school, about the Estonian school in 1999 and about the Estonian school in 2022, we will see that we have made a very big development during this period, we have scientifically learned significantly about how learning takes place and how effective teaching takes place. We have significantly developed our curricula in order to develop a self-governing student in order to motivate students to develop their strengths and address their weaknesses. We have introduced an evaluation that supports learning and we must also achieve an external evaluation that supports it. So a lot has changed since then. But what hasn't changed is the exam. Question 7: "How has the threshold for state exams in upper secondary schools changed (20 points to one point)? What is the feedback from universities on the learning outcomes of gymnasts? " We analyzed the results of the state exams of the higher education institution in the years 2010 to 2021. This analysis showed that the impact of changing the threshold of the state examination on the results of the examinations submitted is not observable. But what has been the effect? An important influence has been that since 2014 mathematics went over a narrow and wide range of mathematics courses and exams. There is indeed a great deal of criticism about this change, and there is also criticism from universities. It is seen that the possibility of choosing between two different courses and also taking two different exams has significantly reduced the motivation to study mathematics at upper secondary school. We will certainly come back to this change in the future. Question 8: "Why do several universities plan to take entrance exams in chemistry, physics, for example? " According to the Ministry of Education and Research, it has been using since 2022/2023. three curricula in the field of medical sciences: medical science, dental science and pharmacist[learning]. In addition to this complex examination, an academic test is required and an entrance interview is given. This is done firstly because in physics and chemistry there are no national exams at the end of the upper secondary school, these are school exams that can be taken in these subjects at the end of the upper secondary school. But also because people who have not taken state examinations in the past and do not have these data to offer to universities enter these specialties. Then the universities have the opportunity to let these people prove themselves to themselves whether they can cope, whether they are able to study this specialty. As far as we know, such special exams in chemistry and physics have not been conducted at universities other than the medical profession of the University of Tartu. Then there's the ninth question. I'll make sure there's three minutes left. The question here is that the School Leaders' Association has supported this amendment, and the Educational Workers' Association supports it, but the opinions of the various school leaders who do not support it have sounded and how many of them actually support the idea of changing the meaning of the exams. We have an official letter of reply from the School Leaders Association, in which they confirm that they support the abolition of the threshold. As we know very well in this Chamber, and we are absolutely certain, in the case of representative democracy, not all the members of the EKRE may agree, for example, with Mr Henn Põllea's speech or with anyone's speech. In the case of representative democracy, we have trusted, voted and chosen people to represent ourselves, but that does not mean that everyone thinks the same one hundred percent. Certainly, the subject of the examination threshold is also one where there are different opinions. For example, the Alliance of Educational Workers conducted a survey among its members, which showed that 60% of its members and, after that, supported the abolition of the threshold and 15.4% of its members clearly opposed the abolition of the threshold. There are certainly teachers and school leaders who oppose the abolition of the threshold, but the Alliance of Educational Workers officially supports the government's proposal. And now it is precisely the question of an alliance of educators. Yes, we had an online meeting on 23 November with associations of subjects, but also with school leaders and educators at the level of officials. There, both the heads of school and the Alliance of Educational Staff confirmed that they supported it. After a survey was carried out and this survey only confirmed their previous support. So on 17 February, the official view was also received that the Alliance of Educational Workers supports the abolition of the threshold. Now for the last question. You have listed associations here and asked what their position is. I'll take them real quick. The Association of Estonian Class Teachers supports the threshold, [Estonia] The Society of Biology Teachers supports the threshold, the Association of Estonian Geography Teachers also supports the threshold, the Society of Estonian Language Teachers supports the threshold, [Estonia] The Association of Chemistry Teachers also supports the threshold. The Estonian Mathematical Society says that the threshold could be 1%. The Association of Teachers of the Estonian Language as the Second Language is in favour of losing the threshold. The Estonian Society of History and Society Teachers is in favour of losing the threshold, but is seeking a transitional period. The Estonian Physics Society has no formal knowledge of what they think, we asked the opinion of the umbrella organisations in particular, and we have not received [answer] from them. But the Estonian Mathematical Society Association of School Mathematics, [Estonia] Student Association, [Estonia] Educational Workers' Association, [Estonia] School Leaders' Association, Youth School educational psychologists and educational scientists and [Estonia] Parents' Association support the abolition of the threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U196	Let's get to the questions. Heljo Pikhof asks first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U197	Thank you, Minister, for the very thorough answers that could be given in such a short time. But let's look at § 30 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which talks about passing the basic school exam, which has so far meant taking the exam for at least a satisfactory result, not showing up at the exam. In the case of upper secondary school finals, it is stipulated that the examination has been completed by 1% and a satisfactory result has been achieved by 20%. Why is a similar change not made in the final exams of basic school, but passed by the will of the Riigikogu and the decree of the Minister introduces a procedure that contradicts the idea of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U198	When we discussed the final exams of basic school in 2019, the main discussion focused on losing the exams and came up with an amendment to the law so that the final exams of primary school would no longer exist. Today, we are saying very clearly, and in favour of this, the majority of me have just come from a meeting with the educational players, that comprehensive school must end with a compulsory exam, the result of which will be written on the comprehensive school certificate. That's all for it. The opposition was, for example, on the subject of what this exam will measure today and whether this exam, which we do in mathematics, in Estonian and in one choice[substances], measures what we teach children, for example, what the curriculum says. There is a lot of criticism about this. There is a clear belief that we could have so-called matriculation exams in natural sciences and, for example, social subjects to integrate more chemistry, physics and, for example, mathematics. If we say that our goal is to develop a self - controlling learner, how do we measure it, has a child become a self - controlling student in nine years? Do today's exams measure it? Actually, most people think today's exams don't measure it. Exams will also remain mandatory under this proposal. Evaluation is a normal and important part of learning. In particular, the student, as well as other stakeholders in the field of education, must receive feedback on the outcome of the learning process.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U199	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U200	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I am interested in how the part of Estonian as a second language in the explanatory memorandum fulfils the strategic objective of the "Estonian Language Development Plan 2021 to 2035": all Estonian residents speak Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U201	Thank you. Today, the national threshold is 50%, and in order to get the language level, for example, at the end of comprehensive school we now have a B1 level, 60% of the test result is needed. We see that 75% of middle school graduates who pass the Estonian language test as a second language exam at the end of the comprehensive school receive the B1 level. They will be accompanied by 10% of students between B1 and the national threshold. Perhaps more than 85% of students cross the threshold. So we have a problem with less than 20% of the graduates. This, of course, is a concern and must be addressed, because we should have 100% so that everyone can get to the language level and move on to the next level of education in peace of heart. I think this is a good example of how the national threshold does not motivate. Motivates something else. These children want to move on to the next stages of education, they need to know the Estonian language both to succeed in society and to learn, and they are making efforts to do so. In fact, our ambition is much greater. We would like young people to be able to talk at least B2 by the end of primary school. This is what we are working on at the moment with the curriculum so that our goal reaches a higher level, not B1, but B2.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U202	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U203	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you a little bit about the other side. The exam is an agreed standard, but the exam is also an obligation that must be fulfilled. We have both children and parents who often go the easy way of resisting and want the child to receive a satisfactory grade even if he or she fails to achieve the learning outcomes set out in the curriculum. But in addition to that, children's opinions must be shaped or not only knowledge but also responsibility and responsibility must be taught. How else can they cope with stress in their lives? I can't tell you if a child from middle school can't be held responsible for this knowledge and habit and this attitude, how does he get that knowledge from where it comes from? For children, coping with stress is important. My fear is, aren't we going to grow a generation that's standing in the middle of a room with our hands hanging and blaming only the others? Here comes the suicides and the inadequacy. How do you view it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U204	Thank you for your question. In fact, raising responsibility is a natural part of the learning process, the student is responsible for his or her learning. It is also in our curricula: a self-governing student who takes responsibility for his learning. That is our aim, not to increase the fear of failing the exam, but to increase the sense of responsibility because I want to learn, I want to know more, I am willing to make an effort. It's such a general attitude towards learning. By the way, science says that high-threshold tests such as the exam, on the contrary, do not produce a higher result in the performance of students, but produce a lower result. This is what educational psychologists especially stressed today at our meeting that if there is a high-stakes test, children will get lower results than if they take down the anxiety target and let them do their best [to show] what they have learned in nine years. So learning is certainly the process of building a sense of responsibility, especially [I mean] responsibility for learning yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U205	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U206	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I'm trying to grab a lot with one question. When I've spoken to the directors, discussed these things, then in favour of losing the threshold [existing], how to say, specialists I don't know very much, I mean especially the school leaders who are in my circle of acquaintances. If you look at this thing, education at all, education is still very serious, how to say, a system that supports society. If education is to be reformed, it means that it must be very thoughtful, very wisely done, because the ultimate goal of this process must be quality. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If you look, let's say...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U207	Time, Riho!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U208	I'm sorry! ... to look at this threshold, the thing and everything else if we lose the threshold, even in the Polish forest...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U209	Time, Riho!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U210	... the question is that if we do a zero threshold for language learning, say, not at all, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U211	Riho, we have a minute to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U212	...this process will remain incomplete. I'm sorry. How's that still...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U213	Time, Riho!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U214	... to bring it together with science and progress?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U215	Thank you. After all, we see that there are students who are not willing to make an effort. These students must be supported. They're clearly outnumbered. Most young people work hard, we say sometimes that they work too hard, they work hard, and neither a broken child nor a young person can do their best on the exams. But those young people whose motivation needs special support should not be seen as lazy and sloppy. They're worried about the kids we have to help. Where we want to get to, where we have to get to, it's to make sure that these kids are noticed sooner than when they've passed the comprehensive school final and he's failed there. We must notice these children earlier and provide support earlier. It was also under discussion today, it was one of the main issues of how to support motivation, the motivation of the teacher who has found that the [suitable] exam to motivate children is how to help those teachers who do not have the tools to motivate children in a different way. It is certainly a great area to teach children internal motivation to take on greater responsibility. The question of motivation is, in fact, a key issue in order to create such an environment in the field of education, as well as values that encourage effort, not those that take this inspiration down to the students. The environment must still be supportive and inspiring, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U216	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U217	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! The student shows up for the exam and gets the exam just for showing up. I'm sorry, but to be honest, it's just a ridiculous proposition. There must be changes in education, but they must be very thoughtful, they must have very broad support in the faculty and society at large. 14 teachers' associations have said that changes to your planned comprehensive school final exams are not necessary, they are not thoroughly thought out and they are rather detrimental to the level of education of our children. Dear Minister, Why are you pushing for changes that are clearly not supported by the majority of the faculty? Is this really the main challenge of our education, the main concern that needs to be addressed, or is it [an issue], for example, teachers' aftergrowth and teachers' salaries, where you have not been able to make very big breakthroughs?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U218	Thank you for your question. First of all, for the first time in the history of the Estonian state, we have a concrete plan to ensure that teachers succeed. We hope that we can also implement it in full. However, in contrast to last year, the salaries of teachers increased this year. The question of teacher follow-up, the issue of teacher qualifications, is certainly a very important issue, and that is certainly what we are dealing with. Secondly, you say 14 indexes are against, and you say this is the whole faculty. I say that the Alliance of Educational Workers is very clearly in favour of this amendment to the law; the Teachers' Association is very clearly in favour of this amendment to the law; the School Leaders' Association is in favour of this amendment to the law. The educational psychologists at Tallinn University explain very scientifically why losing the threshold is very good in directing our education system towards different values. The professors of education at the University of Tartu, Margus Pedaste, who today received a decoration from the President, and Äli Leijen, are in favour of this amendment and have also tried to justify it. The Teachers' Chamber brings together 23 associations of subjects. Indeed, 14 associations of substances have said that they are not in favour of this amendment. The Teachers' Chamber says that they have different opinions in the Chamber. But there are clearly associations of substances that understand and support the abolition of the threshold. Now, if I were to try to think about what would happen in our public space and discussion if we said that the threshold would be 50% this year and in the future, how many letters then... I understand you've had a lot of letters in your mailboxes. How many letters would it be? For example, what would students say on this, in addition to what is scientific knowledge, and in addition to all those organisations that very clearly support the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Research?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U219	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U220	Thank you. I am quoting the report of the Riigikogu from 24 September 2019. The beginning of the quote: "Thank you, good manager! Dear Minister, Predictability is generally considered to be very important in public administration. It seems to me that predictability in education should be particularly highly valued. However, at the beginning of September this year, the state put teachers in front of the ninth in ignorance of how these ninth graders would graduate. My question is whether it was a conscious decision to change the rules in the academic year or whether you were in a hurry. Why did you choose to violate this predicament principle so forcefully? " End of quote. It was Liina Kersna's question to Minister Mailis Reps. I ask you, Minister, why you decided to violate this principle of predictability so forcefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U221	Thank you. At the time, this proposal had not really been negotiated with the education sector and at that point there was no support for this proposal in the education sector either. In October last year, mathematicians proposed that we continue with the same system as last year's basic school final exams, that the examination is compulsory, but that graduation is free of exam results. That was last October. In November, the Ministry invited all parties to a video meeting where this proposal was discussed. At that meeting, the Native Language Teachers' Association was very clear that they were not in favour of losing the threshold. At the time, the Association of Economic and Business Teachers, which brings together 46 teachers, said that they would not support the abolition of the threshold. Other associations of substances did not oppose at the time. On this basis, this proposal was also made. I am very pleased that a large part of education remains behind this proposal. I do not know if we have seen any changes in favour of which it is all said that, in a firm and consensual manner, everything is in favour of some change. Always, there's someone or a group of people against any change, and they always have a reason why they're against it. Today, with the various parties, we tried to map these causes, the fears behind losing this threshold, in order to mitigate or mitigate these fears.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U222	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U223	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I, like the questioner, am somewhat confused about this subject. You have opposed all of this so principledly, your party opposed it. I remember when we asked Minister Reps similar questions in the Committee on Culture. You yourself called the class teachers round tables, pretended to be on their side in this matter. Now you're the minister, and what do we see? It doesn't make any difference whether this story was told by Mailis Reps or whether you are telling it now. Who's been tinging you? Why the change of heart? Was there some kind of political populism and show? Or have you actually been lying all along? But who and when will you tell the truth? Your party didn't support it and fought the same thing in anger when it was presented by Mailis Reps. Now this is the Reform Party, and you've turned 180 degrees. I really don't understand who's after what now. Why the change of heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U224	Thank you. In 2019 it was proposed to abolish national final exams at the end of comprehensive school. Of course, it's interesting to hear that you appreciate that it's the same thing. Of course, it's your right to think so, but there's a very fundamental difference here. All students must take the exam and this exam will be written on the comprehensive school certificate. It makes me sad to see how much you underestimate students, as if most students were going to write their name on paper and get zero points on their graduation certificate. Do you really think young people today are like that? No, it's not. I assure you, there isn't. Young people want to learn, they want to work hard, and they want the results of their nine-year study to be adequately recorded in the certificate. Of course, there may be exceptions, but most young people are working hard to get very good results on the school graduation certificate in order to move on to the next levels of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U225	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U226	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In addition to the Ministry of Education and Research, the Education and Youth Board, or Harno, is also working on the preparation and analysis of exams. I would ask you to convey Harno's analysts' position on the abolition of thresholds. Next, one of the partners in coordinating the draft was the Estonian Teachers' Association, whom you commendably noted. However, in the course of the discussions already in the years 2019 to 2020 it became clear that there are a few dozen members in this organisation. Is it true that the Ministry of Education and Research has carried out a monitoring procedure in this organisation and has identified widespread violations? If so, why has the Ministry chosen an organisation suspected of being in trouble with the law as its voice bearer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U227	Thank you. Certainly, no representative organisation in the field of education is the voicepiece of the Ministry. It really hurts me to read that if anyone gets money from the ministry, it's like he's been bought. I'm sorry, but all associations get money from the Ministry, and the Native Language Teachers' Association gets money from the Ministry. It is simply that we support the third sector in the field of education and they all receive public support to a greater or lesser extent. That doesn't mean it's the voice of the Ministry. Now question two. Yes, it is true that we commissioned supervision in the Union of teachers on the issue of the invitation, and it identified clear problems. We are dealing with these problems and there is another monitoring to see if the shortcomings have been remedied. The problems clearly came up, and we're trying to deal with them. As far as I know, there are 80 members of the teachers' association and there are 70 members in some subjects associations, such as the Estonian Association of Chemistry Teachers. But if we start counting these members, that's a question of our own. Harno's analytics, yeah. Harno really mostly orders exam analyses and I can ask you to send these analyses specifically. But I'll see what the numbers of the performers have been in the last few years. For example, in the case of Estonian language 2019, if it wasn't COVID time, 268 students didn't exceed the national threshold, they went to take the school exam and 20 of them didn't pass the school exam. [[A voice from the hall.]] What position? [[A voice from the hall.]] Harno? Honestly, I don't know, there hasn't been a separate target group like Harno analysts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U228	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You claimed that the Association of Teachers of the Estonian Language as the Second Language supports the abolition of the threshold. At the same time, as you rightly pointed out, letters came in my mailbox today with a completely different opinion. I quote: "The abolition of an entry does not help a weak student to acquire better the knowledge needed to complete comprehensive school, but on the contrary, students who have no or very weak Estonian language level can also complete primary school. " They don't really agree to losing this threshold. There's some kind of mismatch. Is this letter wrong, is it affected, or was your information wrong, or how is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U230	Thank you for your question. First of all, it is very clear that the Union of Teachers of the Estonian Language, as the Union of Teachers of the Second Language, is in favour of losing the threshold. We have official feedback or a letter of coordination, which does not mean that there is no teacher in a particular area who is not in favour of it. They are representative organisations; they would probably not be able to take a position on any of these matters if it were to be absolutely consensual, the same opinion by everyone. We know that there are different opinions. Especially when we talk about changes, people think differently. Why do they think differently? We talked to the teachers about it today. The main fear is that students lose their motivation for learning. At the same time, we know that this is scientific knowledge, it is not just someone's gut feeling, that the same threshold is not motivating, just as the letter you referred to meant, this weaker student to study. No motivation, quite the opposite, this student subjugates. Of course, it is symptomatic again, as if we were supposed to teach because of this threshold. No, we must teach Estonian to students with a second language for nine years, so that they can move to the next level of education after ninth grade and also to the Estonian level of education. That must be the goal, not the fact that it exceeds the threshold.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U231	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U232	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I don't understand. Perhaps you can further explain why you have chosen different opinions from different opinions, as you have emphasised, all the time you have chosen the opinion that you represent here today. But my question is about national exams and standards. You also said that national standards do not motivate you to learn that other motivations are needed. You also stressed that students would lose their motivation if there were thresholds, that this was such a scientific approach. This is also probably the basis for your support for the abolition of thresholds. My logic says that then you will also support the abolition of thresholds for the language examination of citizenship. This should also motivate language learning in the acquisition of citizenship. Is it true that you will also support the abolition of thresholds on the exam there, and this will motivate you to study Estonian and pass the citizenship exam?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U233	Thank you. The motivation for a person to take a citizenship exam is that he or she wants to become a citizen. It motivates him. It is such a philosophical question whether we set the threshold at the end of one degree of education or whether we set the threshold at the next stage of education. Very many people believe that we should set a threshold for entering the next stage of education. Today we also agreed, one thing we agreed on was that next year there will be an additional national exam, this is not a school exam, and the other thing we agreed was that we will try to design national exams so that they can be used for upper secondary school and vocational school entrance. This requires bringing the examination session a little forward and certainly a thorough discussion with the field. But the student would then have a greater internal motivation to make an effort, to get very good results in order to get to the school where a particular student wants to go. [[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U234	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U235	Thank you. You said you didn't know Harno's point of view. I can tell you that Harno's position is negative on your proposal. I don't think it's worth questioning their expertise, unlike you doubt our expertise. You said the motivation issue was central. I totally agree with you on that, but losing the threshold will take away that motivation. Incidentally, I too have been teaching, I have been working as a teacher, and I can assure you that there is no substantive basis for what you say that the exams will remain. It is no longer an exam if it does not measure children's knowledge and does not have a threshold. Looks like it's the kind of comfort you've got going for the students. We know how comfortable students are. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I don't understand what you're living in when you say everybody still wants to get along.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U236	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U237	But now I'm finally gonna ask you a question. What do you think's going to happen with this education policy from the PISA tests we're one of the best in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U238	Time, Henn!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U239	Thank you. For example, in Finland, where the PISA test results are also very high, there are no national exams at the end of comprehensive school.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U240	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U241	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Minister of Education! You have certainly heard that smiling teeth bring a parallel between what is happening in the Ministry of Education or in the field of education and driving schools: it is likely that you will soon be able to take a driver's test by simply typing yourself in a driving school. You claim that the vast majority of young people are extremely motivated, and at the same time you say that it is necessary to notice, listen, motivate, help. There is a certain contradiction in these two arguments. Not all people are equal, not everyone has to be dragged through. I ask: is the group that has been forced through primary school and upper secondary school now part of the students who are said by the faculty to be lacking in functional literacy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U242	Thank you. I don't see much of a contradiction. I was also reminded of our joint meeting just before we came here. The general opinion was that 20% of students are those who need more attention and whose motivation for learning needs more attention. 80% are those for which this need is not so deep. Yes, it is important to notice, but not only those who move more slowly, but also those who move faster, and they also need to be given the necessary support. The comparison with driving school is completely inappropriate. After all, we are not talking today about sending a child to a productive job at the end of comprehensive school, that he must definitely have some specific skills to deal with a particular task, such as driving safely or operating another person. We're talking about middle school graduates right now. There's a very big difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U243	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U244	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I'm a little confused. You speak with a clear eye about how everything is on the right track, but a lot of teachers say it's actually a pachuha, and ask what kind of fly bit you. The Association of Mother Language Teachers says this: "The abolition of a minor does not help a weak student to acquire better the knowledge needed to complete a comprehensive school, but, on the contrary, students who have no or very weak level of Estonian can also graduate from comprehensive school. " Is that your goal to clean up a word from the Preamble of the Constitution as the next step?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U245	Thank you. This certainly is not my aim, nor does it concern this amendment. We also know today that in 2019, for example, there were 20 students who did not pass a national exam in their native language and did not pass a school test, but they graduated from school. It is, I think, regrettable that the system has not been able to help these students by the end of the ninth grade so much that they can pass the exam. But the reality is, these kids have gotten a graduation certificate and left middle school.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U246	We can only ask one question at [debate]. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U247	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I am certainly not an expert and specialist in the field of education, but after reading very different approaches to us, newspaper articles, teachers' and subject associations' concerns, I do feel that this reform will in any way support the improvement of learners' knowledge, competences, skills and attitudes. You have made a number of positive points here today, which this reform will bring. But do you also have any doubts about what this might make [the situation] worse? A very large number of educated people have turned to concern that this could reduce the knowledge and motivation of our learners.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U248	Thank you. Of course, there are these concerns, and today we have also mapped them. This is precisely the motivation, motivation, and motivation to learn. The teachers themselves said that they too needed a test to have more motivation to teach. According to critics, students need a test in order to be motivated to study. It was suggested that parents also need an examination threshold to motivate students at home. We were discussing today how we could expand the general social understanding of how motivation arises and how motivation can be maintained. It's not a trick, it's a process, it's a process of attitudes and self-confidence, too. That's what we have to deal with. Teachers who are critical are likely to feel insecure because they want to take away a tool or tool they have used. After all, they have seen their practice show that it has been a working tool. At the same time, at today's meeting, educational psychologists explained the motivation for how to maintain motivation and what we can do to improve the overall understanding of the motivation of students and teachers. Another concern is certainly the issue of teachers' qualifications. Of course, teacher post-growth and teacher qualifications are important issues. I have also received letters, these letters have also come to you, claiming that 57% of teachers do not have qualifications. In fact, 86% of teachers who are in front of the class have qualifications, this 50 and above per cent relates to teachers who started without qualifications. Our task is certainly to offer those who have shown willingness to become teachers who want to teach young people, but who do not have qualifications, flexible opportunities to acquire qualifications as quickly as possible. This is precisely why we are calling on the Teachers' Academy to be implemented in order to give teachers who are not qualified a flexible opportunity to complete themselves. It is also a concern that national evaluation or monitoring is disappearing. We need to review that we have regular level work. That is precisely the objective of national surveillance, that if we see somewhere that, for example, the results of the level work are largely very low, then we can go to help this school, go to see what has happened, why these results are such, how we can support these schools by the state, teams where we see, as a result of national surveillance, that these results are worrying. This monitoring must definitely remain, that we must develop, and that is what we will do. Certainly one of its national monitoring instruments is also the final exam, where we also see these results.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U249	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, madam minister. Once there was such a beautiful sign hanging on the wall in schools, "Learn, learn, learn!"under which was signed "Vladimir Ilyich Lenin." Of course, the purpose of this was for people to develop, to become wiser, so that they could cope in the future. Looking at this moment, you're gonna find it's enough to get to the exams, I think it's an absurd theater. Are you ready to have yourself operated because of cancer, for example, when a student has received a doctor's degree at a university, let's say, just because he's been there? I don't think so. But please, tell me if you agree to such a change, that it is enough to pass the driving test, and whether you are proposing to change the procedure for this exam. Tell him to show up and he'll be fine, so what if a couple of posts are down... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U251	Time, Kalle!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U252	...and some people are dead.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U253	Thank you for your question. I'm sure I'm ready to be operated on by a person who's got a 20% score at the end of a grade school exam, but he's gotten to the end of college and he's grown into a great surgeon. I'd definitely let a surgeon like that operate on me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U254	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U255	Minister, thank you very much. I'm very sorry that you speak half-truths very skillfully. No, for example, a survey conducted by the Estonian Educational Workers' Association. Let's start by letting them know what their opinion was, and then a survey was carried out. Now, these results and this table, which sort of tells us what their opinion is. You quoted in your speech today that 60% support and 15% do not support. In this first percentage, i.e. 60%, you put in both those who agree, and those who agree rather, but you put in 15% only those who disagree. There must be 25% added, who would rather disagree. Do you understand? Then the percentage immediately changes, 60 versus 40, that's almost half. In the same way, I have a huge number of questions as to why you went to the media and why you do not consider that there are three political parties here at parliamentary level who are absolutely not in agreement with this debate. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I mean, you didn't come here until after you went to the media and said your position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U256	Time, Victoria!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U257	What purpose will you do this if you simply force yourself to try to pass through those who do not agree with you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U258	Thank you. As a minister, I can rely on the views of the organisations that are being communicated. At the end of November, I have repeatedly referred to this meeting, and the Alliance of Educational Workers also said that they would rather support this amendment. Then they did the debriefing. Yeah, your numbers are correct. I said that 60% would support, and I just stressed that 15.4% will certainly not support. The rest were the ones who would rather not support it. We have a letter from the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers, where they say quite clearly that, based on the opinion of the majority in their organisation, they support this change, just as the school leaders say, in the official letter of coordination they confirm that they support it. This really does not mean that all the educational staff of the Republic of Estonia and all the school leaders of the Republic of Estonia support one particular change. But the representative organization has its own representation form, and I can rely on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U259	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U260	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. You have a very important subject in front of this hall. There's a lot of interest and a lot of questions. But for each change, the goal is actually very important. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states nicely that the aim is to improve the integrity, clarity of interpretation and use value of the examination results with common tasks. This objective is actually achieved by presenting the test results as a percentage of the maximum result instead of the current score and is supported by all teachers. In fact, it is not difficult to achieve a result or a solution with a high level of support. But why lose the threshold? As the only substantive reason for losing the threshold, you have highlighted the reduction of performance stress and the improvement of self-motivation, especially for weaker students. But in order for self-motivation to improve and self-management skills to develop, you need a qualified teacher, good growth, sufficient resources, support specialists. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If it doesn't come up and only the threshold disappears...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U261	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U262	... then the risks of achieving a negative result are very important, and that is why we are so critical in this Chamber. Why...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U263	Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U264	...to lose the threshold? This does not allow the objective to be achieved, which is formulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U265	Am I on another planet with some other time measure? [[Voices in the hall. Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U266	Thank you. I have repeatedly said that we will not implement this change if the vast majority of education is not in favour of it. My friends, I will read to you that there are large organisations that support this amendment. Of course, combinations of substances with 14 are associations of a particular substance. For example, physical education teachers and craft teachers say that mathematicians should motivate students better or otherwise. Of course, it is important to know what these fears and concerns are about losing the threshold, but the best thing I know today is that most of the players in education are in favour of this change. School leaders, an association of educators, an association of teachers, students, educational psychologists and many associations of subjects are in favour of this. You forget that this is not a situation where there is a solo of a ministry or minister. This proposal is driven by a large number of actors in the field of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U267	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U268	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. That's the question I'm asking. I have somehow remembered that the exact same discussion was when the upper secondary school exams were taken off the threshold. There were very different discussions at the time, but I cannot remember which minister then was, which party this proposal came from. Do you remember and maybe you can explain the background to this discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U269	Thank you. At that time the minister was Jaak Aaviksoo. I didn't know that. I went back to 2014. It was simply noted that there was a year in which many major fundamental changes took place, for example, the threshold for the final exams of upper secondary schools was abolished and went on one point, and free higher education was also implemented at that time. Then I got the answer
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U270	Thank you. I see that there are no more questions, we can go to the negotiations. First Jaak White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U271	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Honorable Minister! After all, this is a very important change in the organisation of education, to which you call your opposition a fear. I can't say it's not inferior. In fact, there are assessments of a series of functions. Let's just say that the first is the control function, which is primarily aimed at adjusting the teacher's activities. Secondly, there is a feedback function in the evaluation, which should be aimed at adjusting the learner's activities. Thirdly, learning is a value-added function that allows a student to decide on his/her willingness to continue his/her studies or to achieve a degree. The fourth function is the motivation function of the learner, which is both to recognise the learner and to support the student's determination. Losing the threshold would blur all of these functions, because when preparing for the exam and taking the exam, no more effort is needed. But two evaluation functions would be particularly blurred. Firstly, graduating from primary school would no longer provide knowledge of the extent to which this level has been achieved. In essence, this means that there will be more pressure in the future for teachers to reduce demandingness in the course of previous studies and for comprehensive school completion to no longer have any quality. Whether a person has graduated from primary school or not would not make a difference in assessing a person, and those who write that Pythagoras was a Lithuanian wrestler will graduate in exactly the same way as those who have made a serious effort. Second, the motivation function of the learner would be lost or significantly reduced. You have claimed that without comprehensive school finals it is not possible to complete comprehensive school; all comprehensive school graduates must take comprehensive school finals, the result of which will be written on the certificate. That's right. But it's also a blurring problem. You continued in such a way that our young people should not be underestimated or assume that all comprehensive school graduates will go to comprehensive school finals and write their name on the paper in order to receive a comprehensive school graduation certificate of 0%. You also claimed that you are just sad to hear this depreciating attitude of Estonian young people. But no one really detests our young people. You could say the other way around that you're underdoing it. We believe that our young people appreciate the needy. In your earlier answers, however, you identified demanding teaching with fear. You claimed that in 2022 we would no longer have to teach children by fear that we would not have to give fingers to children with cards. That was your quote. I'm asking you, isn't that a blur? Of course, no one thinks that all middle school graduates will only pass the exam to get a 0% comprehensive school certificate. But in general, it is still extremely difficult to imagine that losing one aspect of the motivational function does not mean losing the quality of the knowledge acquired. I find it difficult to consider your objection to those university teachers who say that ten years ago, young people were smarter. In your previous performance, however, you claimed that all this had happened at the time of the existing threshold. But, in fact, we're talking about the threshold for the state exam at upper secondary school, which has been pushed below the lawn. According to the legislative amendment made in 2013, the State Exam has been passed if at least 1% of the maximum result has been achieved. In the past, graduating from upper secondary school was a condition for taking state examinations at least 20% of the maximum result. I haven't interviewed university faculty, but I really don't know any faculty... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U272	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U273	... who would not claim that the level of admissions to universities has not fallen rapidly since the 2013 amendment. I don't think that, for example, the faculty of my acquaintances are anything special, but it's still commonplace. I haven't chosen my company on the one who appreciates the quality less and who appreciates it more. In general: I really do not understand why we want to lower this level, now that we know that this level has fallen with the 2013 amendment. If we do not want to lower this level, why do we think that repeating similar practices will result in a different outcome? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U274	Thank you very much. Is that really all you want to say? It is. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U275	Honourable Riigikogu! Dear Minister, The people of education who are following our debate! I'm really very sad. Because we saw how Liina worked on educational issues at parliamentary level. We hoped that there would be substantive discussions, very substantive discussions. We have so many issues at this point that I would like not only to discuss but also to decide on. These include the topic of teacher follow-up, the issue of funding for higher education institutions, the vocational education system, including, for example, concerns about inclusive education. The Minister spoke on several occasions about the beauty of this system of inclusive education. In fact, I would like to ask a question, and if today's debate had the opportunity to ask a question twice, I would have asked whether the honourable Minister of Education and Science had read the report of the National Audit Office published in 2020, which states that at least 8 000 children will not receive enough of the support they had the hope of obtaining when we created this system. When I tried to formulate my question to the Minister today, I realized that there is a need for a very clear understanding here, where there is content, in terms of content, we may indeed have different positions and where there is procedure. In fact, the procedure is also very important for this bill. This is what is important in order to preserve our rule of law. I will list a number of procedural issues that have arisen in this proposal. Firstly, the Minister did indeed go to the media with this proposal and did not ask for the possibility of a debate at Parliament level. Secondly, yes, we know that it is a political rule that the coalition always has a majority, or coalition can always run over the opposition, but there are five political parties in our Parliament and three of them do not like this proposal. If you look at it this way, Parliament should also be taken into account in the parliamentary state. At least in order to look for a common section, not to convey your position in such a way that I think it's a majority. We know perfectly well, looking at these percentages, that it is not that clear the majority that supports the Minister's initiative. The Minister did not work in the Committee on Culture. There is probably also a problem in part because we remember that the Committee on Culture has been dealing with similar issues for several years in a row. Our position was that we did not support such an initiative. We had a consensus on this, in other words, both the opposition and the coalition together said that we would not play with the evaluation system. Again, is it important what Parliament thinks? It turns out that it is not so important that we deal with the same issue every year. Yes, you may object, as you have tried now, but that there was no other suggestion at the time, they are actually very similar proposals, but in the details they are different, but the content is still the same: in what way we will check the student's knowledge when he finishes primary school. That's the root of it. Education is a very sensitive area. If there is no consensual understanding behind you, it is questionable to me why you want to show strength. We are now seeing that, in fact, this draft, this proposal for a regulation, is creating tensions, is creating many emotions. In fact, you have a lot of questions that wait in order for you to bet on and where to channel that energy. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U276	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U277	It's questionable to me that if more or less half are against you, against your initiative, why don't you take them into account? It is always questionable what pattern a good minister should have, either simply show strength or take into account other opinions, positions and, above all, Parliament. It is thanks to this that the Fatherland has decided, and we have also introduced today a draft which would take away the Minister's opportunity to decide such matters at the level of the regulation, and it would go back to Parliament. For four years in a row, Parliament is talking about not being able to change, and then there will be a new minister, he is more or less old, and still puts the table in exactly the same debates. We have texts that can be recounted year after year because year after year there is the same argument. Maybe we should really take a break, and maybe at the beginning, as you very rightly listed, these problematic places: the re-examinations to the national level, the drought of teachers. Let's think about what this motivation is, and then we'll come back to this initiative of yours. But not so we're gonna lose the thresholds at first, and then we're gonna see what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U278	I now ask the Riigikogu to speak to Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U279	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Last time I was on the subject of education, I think I was in the remote when we were discussing the development plan for education. Although the result was then critical, I felt that in my speech I very much emphasised the importance of the process. We do not live in some black and white world with the only right solutions. In fact, we can find a really effective solution for Estonia, but this means that the parties are involved, they agree or at least they are willing to accept the result that will be implemented. Indeed, the subject of the exams is anyway such exams as a symbol of the polarising theme who are in favour of those who are opposed. This is certainly not a good opening for any change in the field of education. In particular, in 2019 and 2020 we discussed the achievement of the mandatory standard of basic education in the Riigikogu, whether the final exams must be compulsory. The Riigikogu has clearly expressed its political will and the final exams of basic school have not been lost. The fact that the exam has been passed has so far meant that it has been passed with a satisfactory result in the case of comprehensive school. Parliament's will cannot simply be missed. Next, on this process, what has been repeatedly asked today is that teachers' associations are not involved, they have not supported them, they have had an unexpected change, they have not been able to hold a substantive debate, find arguments in favour and against and really shape such a strong position or, for example, the assumptions that, if such a change were to be made, what else would be needed. So, in terms of inclusion, the process has been very poorly managed. Teachers' concern has been that it would have been appropriate to express the result of the exam instead of the score based on the result achieved as a percentage, which is a sensible solution and which is a solution for general support, that should be done. But it has been a surprise for many to lose the threshold. Helir-Valdor Seeder will now have the opportunity to reply. When I followed this debate, I immediately developed a parallel with the process of dismantling the second pillar. Creating opportunities for people to invest their own money and make decisions is very sensible, but when they make such decisions, risks need to be mitigated. The fact that someone is taking advantage of this [money] is that the risk of fraud increases all those things where the country actually has the means to hedge risks is not done. Luckily today, we heard from this remote unit that after exams are being considered nationalized. If the threshold is to be abolished, then at least teachers should be met in parallel and uniform national ex-post examinations should be carried out. Similarly, concerns have been expressed about the emergence of such national rankings for primary school. How will it be dealt with, what are these communicative steps, how will this be explained? Most importantly, the Minister accused us of underestimating students, but in fact, we are realistic about what will actually happen in a situation of limited resources and under-funding for the education system. It has not been answered how quality can be maintained, quality guaranteed, and how this substantive argument can be applied to raise students' motivation, unless nothing is actually changed except to remove the threshold. How do students' motivations increase, self-management skills improve? The process has really been quick. Three more minutes, please. I would like more, but unfortunately, there is no more available today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U280	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U281	As far as content is concerned, the basic school and upper secondary school law really says that the basic school exam must be passed and that means getting a satisfactory result. In the case of upper secondary school final exams, the law has been amended and talked about passing 1% and obtaining a satisfactory result for 20%. If there is a desire to make a similar change at the end of comprehensive school, the law must be amended. § 37 of the Constitution has both the right to education and the obligation to attend school. This means a uniform high-quality education for every child in Estonia. How this monitoring is carried out, how effective performance is actually assessed at the end of the compulsory education level, is not understandable after this change has been made. In my position and in my speech, I draw from the fact that it is possible for a normtellect student to achieve a satisfactory result in each subject at the end of the comprehensive school. We have a simplified national curriculum, have a coping curriculum, and a learner with special educational needs has special conditions on the exam. It's all there. A student with a normintellect does not have the strength to pass the exam with a satisfactory result. The Minister himself said that a minimum level must be acquired in the curriculum, it must be done and it will be achieved with satisfactory results. If this has not worked, then something else must be changed. Yes, along with it, the threshold may disappear, but these other moves must be done to guarantee this result. There are no other supporting measures currently being taken. A teacher of autonomy. The teacher can choose methods to support the student's development, how he implements the curriculum, how he really approaches students differently, but this agreement, the social agreement that the teacher reaches as a result of this autonomous process, has been part of the agreement that 50%, or a satisfactory result, must be achieved on the final exams of basic school. If this social agreement is withdrawn, it cannot simply be a government decision. As I asked, indeed, the draft aims to improve the integrity, clarity of interpretation and value for use of the examination results with common tasks. This can be done by presenting the test results as a percentage, there is no need to remove the threshold. Currently, it started to replace grades with points, but for some reason the threshold was lost. Such unintended action is completely incomprehensible, as is the fact that it is not fair to look at risks. So now we're losing the threshold for honesty, clarity and useability, but how do we get to a stress-free school with a learner-centred, self-leading learner? There's no lever, there's no explanation how it happens. This fear in this Chamber that we simply fall in the quality of education, we [have no] insight into what is going on at school is real, and if no steps are taken and no money is actually found to change this direction, then it is a so-called self-fulfilling prediction. Separately, losing the threshold doesn't solve anything. In order for us, as a society, to really make an effort for young people to achieve results, we must not give up on achieving the ambitious goals, but we must really support every learner to achieve this result. This will require additional funding for education. There are currently no substantive arguments to remove the threshold; listing supporters is not enough. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] More money is needed for education, and then perhaps we will also come to the end of the threshold in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U282	Now, rejoinder, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U283	Thank you. I don't have a recliner, I have a supportive line. I fully agree with Riina Sikkut that when we make important decisions or even significant changes to existing laws, the risks must be assessed. When compulsory pension insurance was introduced in the early 2000s, these risks were not assessed and you will see where we have come from. I also agree with the Minister of Education, Liina Kersna, who says that losing the threshold will raise motivation. I have to admit that my motivation for a coalition has increased considerably as a result, and my motivation for a later reintroduction of the threshold has increased considerably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U284	Thank you, too, for these positive thoughts. Let's move on. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Juske.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U285	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister! Riigikogu! Good people of education! We have so far been based on the principle of convergence school in Estonia. This means that our children and young people must gain the best possible foundation of a uniform level of basic education in Estonia from which to continue their studies. It is the foundation on which the image of our educated people rests. Now, however, the Ministry of Education and Research wants to give up this principle quietly because by dropping the compulsory final exams of primary school, we lose the opportunity to measure and compare the level of schools across Estonia. Our weaker schools would therefore become even weaker. Those students and teachers who do not want to work harder for any reason would do less work. The result would be a very likely drop in the education level of our people. Even more strange is the Ministry's plan to remove the threshold for basic school examinations. It's enough if a schoolgirl just shows up for the exam, and that's one important step in life, like a nigga. Perhaps the next step should be to establish a procedure for a student to complete a class course once a year when he walks over the door of the school. The question arises as to why the Ministry wants to push through these stupid changes right now and now. Are these the most important concerns in today's Estonian school and education? I'm sure it isn't. With these proposals, today's Minister for Education and Science wants to hide his inadequacy in the performance of the teachers' wage agreement. Let us remind you that the average wage of teachers had to be 120% of the average wage in the country as early as last year. I repeat: already in 2021. Today, the Minister says that it is only 2025 that this promise will be fulfilled. It is a good thing that he will, because then Mrs Kersna will certainly no longer be Minister of Education. It is also intended to take the discussion aside from the plan to close down small fine maal upper secondary schools and secondary schools. After all, the Ministry of Education, led by the Reform Party, has started to pressure local governments by granting a financial prize so that they would close their upper secondary school in their school. The next step is to close down small comprehensive schools. This policy has a devastating effect on our regional development, on maintaining life in rural areas, Madam Minister. A total of 14 teachers' associations have made it clear that losing the threshold for compulsory final exams in comprehensive school is the wrong, very wrong educational policy step. It was very embarrassing to hear that the Minister tried today before the Riigikogu to underestimate the opinion of these fine teachers. Instead, the Ministry, the Government and the Riigikogu should listen and trust Estonian teachers, their opinion. A well-thought-out change can be made in education, with the clear support of the majority of the public. Only in the future can we say that we are a great nation of spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U286	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Heiki Hepner, please. Three minutes extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U287	Let's do it, then we're out of trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U288	Let's do that. Let's just put away eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U289	Thank you very much, Chairman, for this three minutes and for giving the floor. Dear Minister, A few keywords for this evening's debate, which I am sure I would like to bring to you. Indeed, the exam is first part of the feedback process and also of the learning process, not just the question of motivation. If we think about feedback or the learning process and draw a parallel by losing the threshold, then you might say that teachers might have the idea that we would not evaluate the test because it could also cause stress. Anyone could run tests on pure motivation without any evaluation. That would be a logical continuation of this development. Indeed, as was the case today in this hall, the smiling teeth have brought a parallel with the traffic tests, that it is enough to just come by and ask for a driver's license after that. In a way, the minister managed to make sure that this was the next level and could put someone at risk. But, of course, we do not know here today how our youth will fare if we quite lightly lose the exam threshold. However, there was another place to draw such a parallel here during the debate. It is as if the threshold will not be abolished on [a] Estonian language examination for citizenship, but on leaving school as a certain score is no longer relevant. One might ask this question: is this the creation of two possibilities on the same exam: on the one hand, if you want to have citizenship, you have to take a language examination at a certain level and it creates stress for the student, and, on the other hand, for someone who does not want to have citizenship, we are creating a situation where he is exempt from this stress or it does not come into being. There are completely contradictory views here, just as, Minister, really in 2019 [the words said] Eduard Odines quite rightly quoted here. At the time you were very clear about the exams of faith and not only about the exams of faith, but also about the belief that they would be real exams. Now, here's the motivation question. Of course, I fully agree with the Minister that the question of motivation is a central issue. The more motivated the student, the more motivated the teacher, the more motivated the parent is to deal with his child, the better the outcome. I do not think there is any doubt about that at all. The question is, how do we ensure this motivation? It's been a while since we didn't have a very good idea at the moment to ensure this motivation, or to mitigate these risks, if we lose the threshold. This is the same core issue. Indeed, we would expect a very clear plan along these lines, how this motivation will be ensured, not just in words, but in practical moves as well. On quite a number of points, it will certainly also be linked to the money allocated from the state budget. It has been modest so far, and it certainly does not give rise to the belief that motivation, which is central, can function in itself. Finally. Really, there have been different percentages here to justify this step. It is said that 60% are in favour. Well, really, everyone who's learned mathematics in first grade knows that 60 out of 100 [in divorce] is 40, so 40 is against. Now the question is whether this 40 is a lot or not. I think that when we look at education, probably 40 is already such a critical mass, it should definitely be much lower than that percentage. As here, when we adopt certain drafts in the Riigikogu, we cannot go on a simple majority, but on a qualified majority. Actually, you should think beyond that, really, maybe if this percentage was 10 or 20, then we could talk about that, well, let's do this step. I guess that's what 14 teachers' associations are referring to, who have not approved this step at the moment. They must also be given an answer, and this answer must be exactly what will guarantee its motivation. Today I have not heard how the 40% who do not understand this decision is actually guaranteed this motivation. These issues also need to be addressed in parallel. Perhaps then, as it has already sounded from here, at one point, when these risks have been grounded, this motivation has been created, we will come to the point that this threshold will disappear. But there's no end to that fortress right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U290	Thank you. Now please to the Riigikogu speech chair... But before Riina Sikku, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U291	Thank you. I recognized myself that once the risks were grounded and motivation was created, as has already been claimed, the threshold could be lost. I'm taking the opportunity to rejoin.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U292	You're good. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U293	[[Laughing.]] But also the fact that 60% support organisations' support for support has been very different on the basis of public letters. Many support the condition that, for example, a uniform high school entrance exam takes place in place of the comprehensive school final exam, they support it on the assumption that other things have been done. These other things have not been done right now. I think, as Heiki Hepner nicely said, that things should move forward in the right order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U294	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Margit Sutrop.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U295	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Good ambassadors and still the brothers and sisters in education who are listening to us today! I have to say, frankly, that with the first momentum, when I heard about this change, I was also suspicious. I was a little freaked out because, as I said in the question, I remembered those discussions that were about losing the exam threshold in high school. I think we don't know what the right solution is and what the wrong solution is. But the more I listen to this discussion and think about it, the more I mean it's one of the worst things to do when you're lost, you start going out of the woods so you go left at first, you come back, you go right, you run in every direction. I think that the changes in education are a little bit, as Descartes described it, with this mistake and the right sense of his truth, so to speak. In fact, the problem in education has been that we have different types of changes that do not form a whole. That is why I consider the amendment initiated by the Minister for Education and Research to be part of the paradigm shift in education. This is what he was trying to explain to you today, how to reach the same self-governing learner, how to achieve a learning-supporting assessment, how to achieve an understanding of how learning takes place and how to motivate students. All this great paradigm change cannot be carried out unless it is supported by this last end, an assessment, which is indeed the last of it. In this sense, I agree with Mr Riina Sikkut that maybe in order to lose the threshold, you should do some things first. But it is actually not quite certain whether this is the case, because if there is still what the English call learning for tests rather than testing for learning, it means that there is going to be learning for testing in order to pass the test well, and not testing to find out how to go on, then this change does not actually take place in schools. Maybe there's some kind of step that's dangerous, but we can't keep going. In this sense, we are discussing how we really can create this whole, how to motivate not only the student, but what I think is most important is how to motivate teachers to bring everyone to a certain level, how to motivate the school to support all teachers to deal with all children with different abilities. Some results are needed in order to be able to actually meet any labour market output, even any, but at least some, labour market output when you finish comprehensive school. I remember my faculty members from the University of England, my colleagues who said that there was a clear, paid higher education, but if somewhere it was noticed that a student couldn't make it, the whole armada would rush together to support him because there was a panic that he might fall out and something might happen to him, and he needs to think together about how to support him. I think that this should not only be the case in paid education, but it could always be the case in school, because every child has value and bringing him to certain results is a shared concern between school and home. That is why the emphasis should really be placed where the teacher, the school, and the schoolmaster are motivated to bring the child to that result. This is not necessarily just a threshold, but it is indeed its achievement in its particular development potential to its best self. I would stress that it is not really the case that the Minister does not have a plan. If you had listened carefully, [you would have heard that] he had several important messages today. Firstly, that external monitoring not only remains but also strengthens the measures to look at which schools need more help and places resources on it. Secondly, the same way that we will stop this so-called slippery, the possibility of taking a national, second ex-post exam, rather than every school inventing tasks that will enable this child to get along. I recall we were just holding the Vello Saage anniversary. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U296	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U297	We held Vello Saage, the best literary teacher's anniversary in Tartu. He has a famous quote that students recall: "You have to go to school. If you don't go to school, the teacher can't put three out for you. If you go to school, somehow he'll find a way to put three out for you. If you don't come to school, you're just gonna fail. "Well, maybe he helped too, not just put out three. But it is very important that schools receive this instrument, how to support students, so that they are given not only external monitoring but also support by the Ministry. I know that the Ministry is launching a school quality development programme in cooperation with local authorities, which could support the development of schools to this level. The pay of teachers is certainly a great motivator, and perhaps the reform of the school network could also support it, because where can we get the money to raise the pay of teachers? But I think the same proposal that comes from schools, such as Madis Somelar's proposal to make teacher's salary dependent on teacher performance, is in turn a very motivating thing. Not only is it that the best students have the best results, but if those who have learning difficulties are brought to better results, then the teacher should be rewarded. Thirdly, indeed, the second state exam in the form of an ex-post examination, to complete the fact that we simply [show] some results. Teachers' pay, money for education. Through the programme for the development of quality in schools, these schools must be supported so that they can all succeed. I think this is a workable result. Clearly, there are risks here, but we shouldn't hesitate, but go on this very path, reach out to a self-leading learner, and reach out to the fact that learning and exams support, not those that stamp, that you have failed, that you are incompetent. Those students who throw their reddish test in the trash can never get anywhere. They reach who cares about [who thinks] that it is feedback that helps them get better. These reddish tests are the main place [on the basis of which] learning opportunities actually arise. You shouldn't be afraid of failure. We must support children, teachers, schools and the ministry on this path forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U298	Thank you. I ask Kalle Grünthal to speak to the Riigikogu. A little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U299	I'll think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U300	Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U301	Ladies and gentlemen, As part of today's inquiry, we have heard the true intellectual spirit struggle. What words! How do we change this paradigm, how we motivate the teachers that are needed to motivate students, so that all things work well, what measures need to be taken, who need to raise their wages, who need to cut off their salaries, maybe. But I remember that when I went to school, there was this beautiful sign on the wall, "Learn, learn, learn!"and it was signed "Vladimir Ilyich Lenin." Peace to his dust, it was one of the few things he said right. In fact, the goal of learning is for a student to develop his or her brain activity, brain capacity. Even the exams before the thumping gives development, it trains the brain. Even if it's short-term memory, you'll remember something, and the more you learn, the more your brain develops and the smarter you get. So in this sense, exams are such an extremely important thing in the development of a child. If there's talk here, what's the motivation, that's the exam, which is why the student has to make an effort. He's gonna have to work his way through the school year so he doesn't fail the exams. Back in the day when we went to school, there was even such a very draconic measure that when you didn't get along, you kept repeating the class class. Of course, the situation is a little different now and maybe such measures are not being implemented, but I can say that it forced [to learn] and motivated the student. Unfortunately, teachers today can't do that. In this sense, this approach of the Ministry of Education is absolutely wrong. I have been forced to read many collectives, teachers' appeals to the abolition of exams. They're only reproaching. If any phantom group thinks that this is the solution that the minister is proposing here, then this [solve] is highly biased and not conducive to the development of the child. Heiki Hepner paraphrased that some of the smiling teeth compared it to the driving school exam. But it's actually God's truth what those smiling teeth did, because if in the future it's just enough to show up for the exam, that's the assumption that this thing is going to be over, based on the ideology of such intelligent thinking, we should also pass the driving test on the same principles. As long as he shows up for the exam, it doesn't matter at all how many phone posts or how many people are run down, as long as he does, otherwise we'll take his motivation away from him, though he'll learn in the future and best learn from practical experience. It is interesting that the Minister did not answer the question of whether he would support the use of such methods in traffic as well. Well, how can you answer when you see that the comparison is the right one and leads to absurdity? I don't think there's any point in supporting absurdity. Students need to learn. It's gonna come in handy in the future. The best motivation is given by the exam, which is thoroughly prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U302	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, do you have...?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U303	I'd like to make a few comments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U304	Please! Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U305	Thank you. In fact, this example of a traffic beam has in some ways been taken to a bit of an extreme. But today's debate has thrown or juggled statistics and has clearly abused statistics. If a response from 6,000 1300 to 1400 in this range has been made, this indicates the actual weight of this survey. We did not hear from the Minister in this debate today, either, that 50% of the respondents said that this threshold should be 50%, and only 16% said that it could be less than 20%. This in itself also shows the importance of this threshold for teachers and, in my opinion, it is quite appropriate to draw a parallel with the traffic test. Very light-handedly, there have been various figures coming out here, just in a useful direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U306	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Peter Ernitsa, please. A little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U308	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U309	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues! Wise and wiser have already spoken. I'm not a practicing teacher, but I've been teaching for years. I speak a language that I'm sure you can't speak. I speak the language of birds, except many other languages. I've been working as a bird language teacher for decades. I know how understanding the language of birds has gone down hard, not just with other disciplines [understanding]. They don't even know the nightingale anymore. It's about knowing nature more widely, knowing living nature. They don't do internships in universities anymore, and so on. The forest is a terrible place, let alone a bog, for a lot of people. This is not the case for Heiki, of course. This actually means a difficult decline in education. I'm sticking to my grids right now, about nature, knowing nature. Chop or chop, that's right. There's very little to talk to anyone about it. But that's it. We talked today about graduating and graduating from middle school. Last night, at midnight already approached, you dropped a number of e-mails into my mailbox and the rest of them to you. For example, the Native Language [teachers] Association says that the new draft creates a situation in which a student can complete comprehensive school with three zeros exams, plus two more unsatisfactory grades. And there were points and there were points. I was wondering if I'd come to the land of fools. Mathematical teachers and many other associations [sent] also [letters]. Those letters came to you when you weren't asleep. It was all sober. Now we are seriously, soberly discussing these things, whether this is a good idea or not. I am not the Minister of Education, and I am not really going to say whether this is right or wrong. But if many intelligent people who teach Estonian language, literature, mathematics, science are seriously concerned and write to us, I find it hard to believe that they do not share the sense that they are stupid, and only those who praise Minister Kersna are wise. But I'm not gonna talk about it for a long time. Priit Pullerits, speaking of the decline in education, predicts that in 2025 "War and Peace" will be removed from the school program because it includes violence, narrowly promotes the love of man and woman, discusses history in an outdated key, deepens francophobia, undermines European solidarity and the friendship of nations, creates unnecessary and artificial confrontations between ethnic groups, and it takes too long to read it, over a minute and a half. Priit has also brought [examples] here when I now find it, how the first to fourth volumes of "War and Peace" had to be read at first, but the end is to look at the series "War and Peace" on Youtube and the summary on the Internet. It could be a joke, but it's not a joke. In fact, the world is going into a new reality, is already gone, including Estonia. One teacher, I quote him, says: "The key word in the world is a well-being society with external, beautiful human-liberal living principles, where a person (also a child) must be everywhere to be comfortable and happy!" What does former Minister of Education Mailis Reps say, our colleague? After all, he was at the waterfall when it started. "The feedback from schools has been very negative, they say it bullies children (the final exam. P. E.), this child has studied by an individual curriculum, he has learned something different, and now suddenly the country comes with some strange exam that sometimes does not match the content that has been taught at school." What's the result? The result is that why these exams, we have a cell phone, there's everything there, you see what "War and Peace" is, who's Leo Tolstoy and whatever, something else. You don't have to learn anything, you don't have to try. Life has to be good. As long as it feels good. Everything is relative. A man may not be a man, maybe a woman, a father may be wearing a skirt, a mother may have a beard. Everything is relative. Today you're a man, we'll cut into a woman by Midsummer Day, and vice versa. There's a new normality coming. Losing basic school exams is, in my opinion, an example, an excellent example, so that life is enjoyable, so that we do not have to push ourselves too hard, because we all have a smartphone in our pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U310	Thank you! Please welcome the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder. I'm gonna ask you if I could use a little extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U311	It's what happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U312	Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Having listened today to two questions about education, one for the Prime Minister and the other for the Minister of Education, it can be summarised that Estonia is most suitable for a paid education system without thresholds. It's a little ironic, but it just kept ringing. I also had to complain about this previous question to the Prime Minister about how the Fatherland has proposed the introduction of free Estonian-language higher education and all the problems of funding higher education have started, not to mention the whole of it, that it was consciously accompanied by this ambition that the state would assume greater responsibility, to which the Auditor General also referred, and the state budget would provide financial resources. We have not implemented this whole. Of course, doing half-one thing will not achieve the result that has been set for purpose, but it is a matter of its own, and I will not go back further to the previous question. But now, coming to losing thresholds, I think it's a bit like living in a theoretical ideal world, which sounds like a communist idea: it's beautiful to read in the book, but in practice it's different. The reality is not as the Minister describes that losing thresholds will create motivation for students and we will achieve better educational quality and better learning outcomes. Practice is not always in line with the theoretical approach. I agree with those who are saying that we are probably now chasing again these exams and losing the exam thresholds for certain political purposes, in order to distract attention from the fact that we are very keen on teachers' salaries, the problems of teachers' follow-up are not solved, the magymnasiums we are trying to close and re-shape the school network, so we do not have the whole, and we offer the municipalities the pleasure that if someone takes this one-off pleasure and closes the school, it is as if the goal that we are shutting down the school has been achieved. But what's the Ministry's comprehensive school network plan where you can see it before we start? It's not there. Or the same funding of universities, the funding of higher education and the fact that we do not have administrative agreements with universities and the rectors are not prepared to conclude these agreements. We are distracting from these very topical and vital problems, and now we are really actively dealing with the abolition of this threshold. I agree with Margit Sutrop, who said that we need a whole and let's not get lost. But in my opinion, the fact that we are dealing with the abolition of the threshold is precisely an invitation to wander. We're dealing with one element, not the whole one. This should not be dealt with in this form at the moment. I'm still asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U314	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U315	We should be based precisely on the whole and very prudently making these decisions. When it is repeatedly said here that there are different opinions, and there are different opinions, there are different opinions among children, there are among students, there are teachers, there are school leaders, there are parents, and it is a ratio of 60: 40 or 70: 30 or 55: 45, it is not enough to rush to change the current system. We have a system in place. In a situation where there are very conflicting arguments, very different opinions also differ from various experts and estimates, going by force now bypassing Parliament, the substantive debate and the substantive decision of Parliament, it is not right. The Fatherland has submitted a draft to the Riigikogu proceedings in order to bring the subject of the exams to the level of the parliament and that Parliament will take this decision. It seems to me that this bill and the initiative that the Fatherland has initiated have fallen on very fertile soil. When I look at today's debates, at how passionate they have been, how thorough they have been, and at how much interest Parliament has had in dealing with this issue, I see that Parliament is precisely the level at which we should decide whether or not the exams will remain, whether or not the threshold will remain. Yes, the rest of the organisational issues are an executive, but I think that this should be argued at the level of the law, and this is the case here in Parliament. It's such an important question. This is not a question that every minister can decide differently every year, as we have seen for the last three or four years. And then we will talk about a holistic approach and stability. So my proposal, in addition to today's questioning, is: let us support the draft of the Fatherland, let us discuss these issues here, essentially, in three readings, and we will reach some sensible decision in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U316	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Education and Research, Liina Kersna, for the Riigikogu Chair. I'll let all my fellow officers know that there's a free microphone waiting for us after this question, so get the spirit ready. Everyone is welcome. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U317	Thank you. Finally, I wanted to thank you for the substantive debate and for my part to say that I am deeply convinced that all teachers are wise. All teachers are wise, but that does not mean that if the teacher is opposed to any change, we should take a different view of him. No, those teachers who oppose this change have their own concerns, have their own fears about the consequences of this change. Today I met 30 educational organisations and I assure you that this debate did not have the same atmosphere as this debate. We discussed real concerns and found solutions for them. There was no reluctance, as you are now making an impression, in this debate. Thirty organizations were there. What are we doing, and what else do we want to do to ensure that this change does not have negative consequences? Firstly, national monitoring is important. This was important and continues to be important. National monitoring can take place through proficiency tests, exams. The state is monitoring this and reacting to these results. Certainly, as Margit Sutrop pointed out, we have a separate school monitoring programme. If we see that different indicators for a particular school go in red, then we can specifically help these schools and explore what has happened, what is missing there, that these indicators are critical. So monitoring is very important and a part of national monitoring is certainly also an exam. We are not prepared in any way to motivate students and teachers otherwise, so that it is not an exam. After all, we are actually ready for this, and there have been many years of work in schools. We have already expired development plans that set the goal of a self-leading student, we have a modern approach to learning, which is mostly used in schools. We already have a generation that has grown up in general education. We already have a descriptive evaluation in place for years. This has all been a prerequisite for abolishing the threshold at one point, because we no longer need it to provide special motivation. This preliminary work has been carried out for a long time, it has not come unexpectedly. Thirdly, I wanted to say about the national additional exam. It's not an after exam, it's an extra exam. For example, school leaders believe that additional exams could also be given to students who did not get the result of the first exam as they would have wanted. So they get a second chance to test themselves and pass the exam. So it is certainly not just a question of threshold. The threshold is part of a larger educational complex. We have been preparing for many years in the field of education so that students' motivation is elsewhere than external motivation in the form of exams. But monitoring is important, and that is what we must continue with. Thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U318	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U319	Let's move on to the fourth item. I see a great oh-oh-oh-hoo! interest and it's good to see. I ask all members of the Riigikogu to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Kalle Grünthal, please speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U320	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable people! I have a very serious message for you. Personally, it seems to me that we have reached the end of the Republic of Estonia. What's with the message? We know that there is such a globalist community as Great Reset, or New Great Reset, which aims to abolish nation states and create a single world order in which nation states no longer have a place. I can say that the first steps in this direction have actually been taken. In particular, the WHO has put the Member States in a position to sign a global pandemic preparedness agreement, which in principle gives the WHO power on all medical and climate change issues. This means that on 1 December last year, the WHO 194 members reached a consensus to launch a process to negotiate, on the basis of the WHO Charter, either a convention, an agreement or another international instrument to strengthen the prevention, preparedness and response of pandemics. If the Member States really adopt this new agreement, concluded in December, under Article 9 of the WHO Statute, this means that, in the event of a natural disaster or a pandemic, their decisions take precedence over national constitutions. This is roughly the same as we have seen with the current corona restrictions, when the restrictions imposed are measures that do not want to go away in any way or in any way, because that is the way the government has decided, even though it does not actually have the full legitimacy to do so. What is the future course of this problem? The intergovernmental negotiating body has now been set up, which will hold its first meeting in March. The second meeting will be held in August. The 76th World Health Assembly, which will take place in 2023, will then be presented to the [Proposal] so that the progress report can aim to adopt this plan or document by 2024. Now this document, the beginning of this process, has reached the Riigikogu. Today was the moment when a mandate was asked in the Committee on Social Affairs to allow the European Commission to represent the Member States of the European Union, or Estonia, on this issue. Thus, the right of representation of Estonia as a nation state will be removed in these negotiations, and the European Union will be in charge of the whole process. We know that if the European Union is given one centimeter, then later it will take a mile instead of what was promised. Of course, it was served extremely delicately, with nothing to say. The principle was that a new instrument to strengthen pandemic preparedness and response was found to have a number of potential benefits, one of which could provide the opportunity to leverage, modernise and strengthen the leading and coordinating role of the WHO and its role as an internationally leading and coordinating body for health work. Against the background of this confusing document, practically all members of the political parties' committee voted in favour of this matter, with the exception of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. We ask all the ambassadors to examine these materials in order to take this right away from the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U321	I now request the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Juske.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U322	Honourable Riigikogu! Good people of Estonia! We live in a happy time because we can live in a free democratic Republic of Estonia. It was only by the end of last year that our country's 104 years of real independence had been more than these cursed years of occupation. Very few people have been given a chance in life, an extraordinary opportunity to write a birth document in one country. I have often imagined how the later Head of State, Juhan Kukk, took up an empty sheet of paper, handed a pen, and began to write the Estonian Independence Manifesto. What do you want to write down? What do you want to stress? That's where you risk your life and your family's. But anyway, it became a very beautiful and proud manifesto. I recommend that everyone read it at least once a year, about 24 February, to see how the creators of the Estonian state imagined the country to be born. It was to become an independent democratic republic, where all the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, regardless of their religion, nationality and political view, find uniform protection before the laws and courts of the Republic, where national minorities living within the limits of the Republic are guaranteed the rights of their national cultural autonomy, in which all the freedoms of citizenship are guaranteed. These are all the values that we consider important today and which we must keep today. As the Estonian state was born under the conditions of the first weather war, local governments were invited in the independence manifest to form militia units for order, i.e. municipal police in today's sense. Military neutrality was also declared. This was an important principle that we maintained through the first period of independence, but which did not guarantee us the survival of statehood when a new world war broke out. Thus we have learned as a wise nation, and when history fortunately gave us a second chance, all to never be alone again in order to be with strong allies. Today we see how necessary this support for Estonia is. You know, we could celebrate the anniversary week of the Republic of Estonia in peace. We could start already on 21 February, because this is the date of 1918 that is borne by our independence manifesto. On the evening of February 23, 1918, the manifesto "For all the peoples of Estonia" was first publicly read from the balcony of the Pärnu Endla Theatre. It's a perfect day for a party. On 24 February 1918 the first temporary government of the Republic of Estonia, led by Konstantin Päts, took office in the building of Eesti Pank today in Tallinn, and in the evening the manifests were glued to street posts in Tallinn. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The party can also continue in peace on February 25th, because then, 104 years ago, Prime Minister Päts first publicly read the manifesto on the stairs of the real school in our capital city, and early in the morning the blue-black-white flag of the Long Hermann Tower rose for the first time. Good people! Today, Estonia is the state of all of us to keep. It is our sacred duty that the blue-black-white flag be able to wave as the flag of a free nation in the Tall Hermann Tower forever. Long live Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U323	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu to speak to Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U324	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue on the issue of losing the threshold for basic school finals discussed in this Chamber. I confirm that, before the threshold is abolished, there is a need for a clear answer to the questions of how the constitutional right to education, the compulsory nature of basic education and the state's supervision of it will be exercised. Compulsory education as an obligation to achieve a certain level of education of knowledge and skills must be linked to a result. The Minister stressed that a minimum level of education should be provided for in the curriculum. So far, this has meant completing the comprehensive school final with a satisfactory result. If there is a desire and the government really has the political will to abolish this threshold, then the basic school and upper secondary school law must be amended. For upper secondary schools, a threshold of 1% and a satisfactory result of 20% of the maximum is set. This must also be done for primary school. Thirdly, the process must be inclusive, enabling a substantive debate. Margit Sutrop very nicely described why losing the threshold is necessary, how students' self-motivation needs to be increased, but above all, the motivation of teachers needs to be increased. I fully agree that the motivation of teachers to achieve a substantive change in the education system is essential. That is why it is very important that such changes be inclusive, open to substantive debate and really consider all kinds of arguments or best scientific knowledge. If there is a situation where teachers' associations in particular are opposed to the abolition of the threshold, it is very difficult for me to see how the results desired by the Ministry of Education and Research will actually be achieved, which teachers should achieve if they do not understand why the change is being made, what is the expectation for them of how they should change their practice in order to meet the objectives desired by the Ministry of Education and Research. As long as this understanding is not available, it is not actually possible to implement this change in substance. Four. It is perfectly understandable that students' self-motivation should be better; it must be worked for. The Minister described beautifully how many years of work has been done to this end. However, an amendment is made to the fact that comprehensive school can be completed with two inadequate grades and three exams that have not actually been passed according to the current understanding. The aim should be, as the Minister said, to be noticed earlier, to support the student's motivation earlier before the comprehensive school final has failed. In fact, the goal should be that no student completes comprehensive school with two grades and three unfinished exams. In order to achieve this result, so that no student can end up with such a result, we need another type of decision, and the resource needs to be diverted. But losing the threshold makes it possible to complete comprehensive school with this result, and I don't understand why it's allowed. The questions need to be answered as to how this early recognition and the increase in motivation can actually be implemented, what resources are foreseen for this in the budget strategy, next year's budget. If we really have the understanding that each student will be able to finish with a satisfactory result, it will be possible to remove this threshold. At present, the risks of a drop in quality are becoming uneven. We can no longer motivate the students who were motivated by the exam. These risks are completely real. In addition to the many times raised in this Chamber [the subject], which are the skills that are needed for life when we talk about making a citizenship exam, making a traffic station, learning to cope with an exam, coping with tension and successfully passing a test with a satisfactory result. These are probably also things that can be given to students in the course of their studies over a period of nine years, so that exceeding the threshold of the comprehensive school final exam is not an extraordinary obstacle or stressful situation. Indeed, the education system must be directed towards new values. We're talking about student-centred education, self-control student. Then you can lose the threshold. We can either control the final result or lead the process much more strongly, but as long as we talk about teachers' autonomy, we could focus on evaluating the final result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U325	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U326	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the evening, let's talk a little bit about our free and independent press. Recently, I was able to read the Postman. There was the title "Pevkur: a public body must not attack the press." It is a pity that Pevkur, who was in the title [mentioned], is not sitting behind me right now. The content of the story in Postimees was how a member of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernits, attacks the free press. I read the news. 14 rows. What did they say? The seven lines were Hanno Pevkur's quote from the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. He told Postimees that a member of the Riigikogu has no right to attack the press or journalists: "One of the pillars of Estonian freedom is free and independent journalism. We have a free word and also a member of the Riigikogu has the right to his or her opinion, but a member of the Riigikogu must take into account that his or her word is certainly of greater weight in society and that any verbal or direct attack on the press is in no way acceptable. " Seven lines out of 14 lines are dedicated to Pevkur, the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Four words are dedicated to me. I haven't even been called. And those words are that you have to throw them out the door. That's it. Independent, adequate journalism, Postimees, by Elisabet Lomp. But what is it? What did I say? What did I do? A year ago, during the torch tour, I gave the Postman's reporter, whose name I don't name, my consent to report together on the torch tour. They put a microphone on me, the camera went, and we went through the whole procession. We had a deal, we did a report together. But when I looked after Postman's report, what was it? Had cut out a large part of the interviews. I wrote after Facebook, and that's all my message I wrote there. What did I write? I wrote a few sentences: "I watched your report. Sadly, you went on a slippery path and tried to show the gathered people as an uneducated and violent group. Why did you leave out a lot of people talking balanced stories? " I'm not going to name who's all here, on my Facebook [post]. And then I say, "The work of a journalist doesn't end when he walks the landscape. Then the hard part to choose is the scissors for the video. You missed that part this time. The journalist's mission is not to press his agenda, but to reflect as widely and widely as possible in his diversity and complete lushness." This was my text, which, of course, Postimees did not publish, only four [words] from there. I drew attention to the confusion on Toompea when this journalist was told to leave. I recalled my experience years ago with this so-called journalist, whom I said he was not a journalist, but propaganda. I can do that again. On this, Postimees wrote a news story whose main character was Pevkur, vice-president of the Riigikogu, and where I was not given the floor. Those who read the news story didn't even know what they were talking about. A member of the Riigikogu threatens the press, the free press. I'm sorry, I've been the editor-in-chief of two major media publications, Luub and Maaleht, and I've been leading the Estonian Journalists' Union for six years. I know very well what the press is and what his role is. That's the whole story. So good night! How's the free independent press? Right now, the Postman.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-21_U327	Thank you. The free microphone calls are also over, so the free microphone is over. There's no more calls. Dear colleagues, thank you, I wish you strength in your work and a safe way home. The sitting is adjourned.
