ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U1	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U2	... that I need a 0.3-loaded or 0.4-loaded teacher, it would be very difficult. If you can provide a full load, it will be much easier to actually fill this place. Believe me, for a lot of teachers, it's a serious motivation when she can teach in upper secondary school. It's not really worth underestimating. So these are the substantive pros, which should certainly be taken into account. I really have not done statistical analysis, mathematical statistical analysis of the school's upper secondary school size and examination results [relationship], but certainly this relationship is not very strong. I dare say that from past experience. The higher the upper secondary school, the better the state exam results? In fact, in some cases large schools are largely below upper secondary schools run by municipalities. There are counties like this. So this isn't exactly one for one. There are, of course, other examples, which is why I dare to assume that there is not a very similar link to one. And maybe the last example, the cost of a student place. Well, in a sense, we can say that the public sector, the municipality and the state together are no different. We could see what it costs society. And there's a point in that. The other side is that the autonomy of local governments is important and we should think about how we can actually keep it and respect it. But if we also take the investment component into account, I dare to guess, although I have not now done the calculations for the last few years, that a few years ago it was bigger in state secondary schools than in municipal schools. This is something that some people say, well, this [amount] can't be very large in local governments, because local governments don't have any money. The state has this opportunity, the state has made investments, the state can pay, it can pay teachers. But the other way around, we can see that we have one public sector, one wallet, with which we can provide certain services. It's not all black and white. So I think it's worth trying to do where you can keep high school. Where, however, at least 75 to 80 students study in upper secondary school, the upper secondary school should certainly be maintained there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U3	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U4	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who will listen to us at this hour of late at night! Interestingly, it was very good to hear the Minister's presentation. Everything was very logical and clear, even very simple. And it seemed very reasonable all that the Minister brought to our attention here in connection with the closure of rural schools. But there's also a very big but. It all depends on what aspect we are approaching this problem: whether we are simply based on cost, whether we are looking at how much money we have, how much we can save from somewhere, or whether we are starting from a much broader perspective, whether life is possible everywhere in Estonia and what we can do to make it that way. The issue of rural schools is entirely directly a question of regional policy, as well as the question of sustainability and continuity of our rural life, which cannot simply be financed and solved by counting euros. Our mission is actually quite different. Our task is that the Estonian village stays so that the rural settlements remain, that our people are not concentrated in just a few attraction centers, Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and perhaps a few more places, but that life is possible everywhere and that the periphery is not left empty, so that the smoke is in every village, and the more, the better. After all, today's situation is due to the fact that we have absolutely no regional policy, which would ensure that there are jobs everywhere, that there are services, shops, post offices, banks and schools and kindergartens. In fact, for 30 years, we've let everything go our own way. The regional reform that was carried out here a few years ago, which in fact did not bring any substantial progress, only changed the boundaries of the municipalities and, in most cases, completely illogically. This, too, has been particularly conducive to peripheralization and has resulted in people leaving many places as a result. Our task would be precisely to achieve the opposite. When the Minister was asked how much it would cost us to ensure the maintenance of magymnasiums, and how much [needs more] to pay teachers, the Minister unfortunately did not have an answer. This shows that there has never really been a desire to approach this issue in this direction. One thing we heard was that if we did this, it would create inequality among teachers. Somewhere there are 33 students and ten others, and yet it is as if teachers are paid the same amount of wages. But if we did, it would certainly solve the problem of the shortage of teachers in rural schools, even in magymnasiums, because I am sure many teachers prefer a lower burden. And that's how we can get that teacher's frame back. There's not that much of a problem in cities anyway. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U5	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U6	And with all of this, with all this problem, this regional policy issue and the possibility of living in rural and peripheral areas are completely directly related to national security. If we still have a large part of Estonia emptyed, it is not possible to ensure that we have a defense network covering the entire country, the Defence League. We can already see this today that in Central Estonia and also in South Estonia and islands, where the lack of regional policy has forced people to leave because there are no jobs, there are no services, nor do we have functioning units of the Defence League. Especially in the current situation, where the world has gone mad because of Russia and Putin's insane imperialist ambitions, it is extremely important that we get people back to their roots. So it is precisely the opposite trend that I regard as extremely important. Not that we look at everything on a cost-based basis, that we run the country like a public limited company, which must be very profitable and where we can avoid all kinds of costs. It is not possible to lead a [well] functioning country that can provide normal life to its people everywhere, because as a result, concentration is getting worse. The smaller attraction centers so far will melt away because of the larger ones, and in the end, we will not be able to hear the child's laughter or see a young family or life anywhere in rural areas, even in remote areas. So I put my heart to the Minister and to today's government, so that we look at this in a completely different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U7	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Does the Minister wish to speak for his part? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U8	Let's go to the next item. There is also an inquiry into this: Members of the Riigikogu Eduard Odinets, Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare, Jaak Juske and Lauri Läänemets submitted on 9 February this year an inquiry into the reduction of support for children's interest education and activities. Request number 117. In the name of the heirs, Indrek Saar must be reported. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister for Education and Science, Ladies and gentlemen, as many as we are left here, and the good servants who once again have to endure over midnight in this Chamber! We have a question about reducing support for children's interest education and activities. In this year's state budget, the government coalition reduced the support for children's recreational education and activities aimed at local governments by EUR 4 million. In this context, my colleagues and I have six questions for the Minister for Education and Research. In the discussions on this cut, the Minister has previously assured us in front of the Riigikogu that the local governments have sufficient additional resources to compensate for the reduction in support for state-owned interest education and activities. We have information from places that, unfortunately, this is not the case everywhere. And that is why we are asking for a more comprehensive overview of what this real situation is, including, of course, in view of the fact that rapid price increases have created an additional burden on the sustainability of both clubs of interest and sports clubs. So we hope that the Minister will give us a thorough overview and I fully understand that, since our questions are quite detailed, some of these answers will probably be better sent by letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U10	And now please respond to Minister Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U11	Thank you very much, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good heirs! Thank you once again for the opportunity to talk about recreational education, which is indeed an extremely important area of education. We are also making efforts in the Ministry to ensure that the knowledge and skills acquired in the field of interest education are taken more into account in formal education. This is what we are trying to take into account in the development of curricula. In any case, this is a very important area. But I'll start answering. "Why, as a minister, have you considered it right to cut back on child interest education? " I have also said many times before that, in a situation where every minister had to find a place to cut costs, I was guided by the principle of the law, which is the task of the state and which is the task of the local government. According to the law, the task of local government is to ensure the organisation of the education and activity of interest. It is the task of the state, for example, to negotiate wages with the Alliance of Educational Workers and to ensure that teachers receive competitive wages. And that's what came about. And the decision was not to abolish additional public support for the organisation of recreational education and activities, but to reduce it. Local authorities currently receive more than €10 million in support of recreational education and activities. Question: "Do you think it's right that the government made a decision with such a significant influence without talking to local authorities? " I really don't think it's right, and it was my fault, but I had to make these decisions in a very short time. And in fact after he was repeatedly met with local authorities on this subject and also explained. A total of 12 meetings have taken place with local authorities on this subject at civil servant level and it has also been discussed how to further develop this supplementary support scheme and what the problems of this support scheme have been. For example, there is a lack of a comprehensive quality management system in the youth field, a lack of high-quality data collection based on a uniform basis on local opportunities and youth participation, including in education and activities. Quality assessment does not take place on a regular basis in all local governments, the existing form of assessment is cumbersome and needs modernisation, attention needs to be paid to valuing school teachers and community supervisors, and local authorities need advice and guidance in the targeted use of additional support. These are the problems that have arisen at these meetings. Support has been provided since 2017 and the joint discussions that took place last year led to the need for an analysis of the financing model for additional support. The analysis of the financing model for additional support for recreational education and activities for local authorities will continue this year. We have set out to analyse the impact of this support, together with other grants in the field of youth, in order to determine the relevance of the grants and the maximum benefits specifically for young people. The third question: "In the discussions on this cut, you assured us before the Riigikogu that local governments have sufficient additional resources to compensate for the reduction in support for state-owned interest education and activities. We ask for an overview of how many municipalities have combined the resources for the area, how many have increased and how many have remained the same? Request an overview of local governments. " The answer. This support is an additional measure to support local authorities to ensure that young people aged 7 to 19 have a systematic access to and diversity of guided recreational education and activities. The aim is to increase their ability to acquire knowledge, skills and attitudes in selected areas of interest. The fixed costs of education and training shall not be financed by this grant. It is only in May when local governments have adopted their budgets and the Ministry of Finance has a first overview of the planned costs of the local government's recreational education and activities in 2022. However, with regard to the change in the amount of the grant, the additional national support for the education and activity of interest will decrease for the vast majority of the 79 municipalities this year, or 77 of the 79 municipalities. Instead, support for two municipalities is increasing. The city of Keila has an increase of EUR 790 and EUR 1817 in the municipality of Ruhnu, due to the increase in the number of families receiving income support in Ruhnu municipality and the arrival of a disabled young person with an additional allowance in Keila city. However, the size of the reduction varies considerably from one municipality to another. The largest number of municipalities with a reduction of EUR 30000 to EUR 50000. There are 43% of the municipalities. For example, in the City of Paide, the amount of aid fell from EUR 110000 to EUR 76000, with a decrease of 31%. In Mulgi, the amount of the aid fell from EUR 202000 to EUR 163000, i.e. 19%. By specific local authorities, grants in 2021 and 2022 and a change between two years, I would be happy to send you in writing and you can analyse them more closely yourself. The fourth question: How many children are going to less hobby groups and sports clubs this year because of the cut in this support? For how many children has the participation fee increased compared to last year? Request an overview of local governments. " Now we have to say again that, as the local authorities themselves pointed out in the discussions, we do not really have an overview of how much the local government pays for an interest education, who pays, how much and for what. There is no such comprehensive overview of the country. But we are trying to achieve, in cooperation with local authorities, such a common register that these data can be seen. But what do we see? We see the number of participations in recreational education, not in recreational activities, but especially in recreational education, where learning takes place on the basis of curricula. These data can be found in the education information system. In this academic year, more young people aged 7 to 19 have registered to study in hobby schools than in previous years. Compared to last year, the number of students registered in this academic year has increased by more than 4500 students, reaching more than 84000 students for the first time, namely 84244 students. For example, in the academic year 2016/2017 there were just over 64000 students in an interest education and last year then just under 80,000. If you look at the change in the number of unique young people in hobbies per municipality, the number of young people in more than half of the municipalities participating in this academic year has increased compared to the previous academic year, the number of young people in 14 municipalities has decreased by 10 and the number of young people in 21 municipalities has decreased by more than 10. The biggest decrease in the number of young people has taken place in the towns of Narva and Kohtla-Järve, by 269 and 119 young people respectively, and at least by one student the participation in the municipalities of Häädemeeste and Kuusalu and in the city of Maardu has decreased. The tuition fee. The amount of the tuition fee is set by the holder of the hobby school and, as I said, no national data is collected. However, the study "Satisfaction of young people in youth work with youth work 2020" points out that the vast majority of young people estimate that youth work activities such as recreational education, open youth work, youth participation are not cost-effective. A large majority of respondents estimate the monthly cost in the field of hobby education to be €26.550. The figures for participation fees are not collected by local authorities. Question 5: "What effect does this budget cut have on children's mental and physical health? " When talking about the mental health of young people, the negative impact of distancing due to the corona apandemia cannot, of course, be overcome. There has been a lot of talk about this and a lot of research has been done on it. Since participation in recreational education also clearly supports the mental health of children and young people on the basis of studies, I have personally maintained an extremely rigid line, being the Minister of Education and Research, in order also to keep the education of interest open alongside general education schools. This pressure was repeatedly that if schools were not shut down, we would at least shut down the education of interest so that children would move less and spread the potential virus. But the Ministry of Education and Research was clearly opposed to this, precisely by referring to research that participation in recreational education supports the mental health of children and young people. We supported learning camps with €7.47 million, and more than 63000 students attended. For example, more than 10,000 students participated in study interest camps organised by the AHHAA and Rocket 69 research studios alone, a total of 378 exchanges. But not all of these camps could take place in 2021, and they will continue this year too, we extended this measure. So it is very difficult to say with certainty what effect this crop will have on children's and young people's mental health. But I can certainly say that participation in recreational education supports the mental health of children and young people. Whether this cut left some children unedited, we will likely see in the future. But I really believe that local authorities have made an effort to ensure that all children, despite this cut-off, can participate in recreational education. And now the sixth question is: "What is the impact of this cut on the sustainability of recreational groups and sports clubs in a situation where rapid price increases will increase their economic costs? " I repeat, this specific support was not and was not followed up to compensate for fixed costs. The grants granted were not allowed to compensate for fixed costs. I believe and hope that the circles of interest that have been created will be sustainable and can continue to operate. As we have seen from the figures, the number of children in recreational education has not decreased in itself. However, when we made this decision to reduce support, we did not, of course, know that there was going to be an energy crisis, which has also hit the education of interest and, in particular, of private interest. It must be difficult for them that, in addition to the effects of the coronavirus, the effect of increasing energy prices came. But really, if you look at it, the numbers of students still have rather increased and it's great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U12	And now the questions. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U13	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. My question is that when we prepared this question and sent it to you, it was February 9th. Two weeks after that, the environment around us changed dramatically, as aggression began in Ukraine. And we know that this brings, among other things, a large number of children to Estonia who, of course, should have the opportunity to participate in recreational education. This is certainly very important as part of their mental health and their development. Have you had any time to think about what additional resources the country can channel for this and what you are planning so that those children who come here from Ukraine as a refugee in war will have the opportunity to participate immediately in the education of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U14	Thank you, very important question. In fact, in the Ministry of Education and Research, we have also given local governments the obligation not to give the kind of guidance we recommend. And now, in the spring period, when students are here, we recommend to offer young people who have arrived here during the adaptation period just to learn the language, to deal with things that interest them, to get to know the Estonian education system. This integration would be so soft and through recreational education and youth work. We have counted on the Ukrainian children's bounty, which is directed at local governments, also into the component of an education of interest. The Ukrainian children's bounty includes both the part of the hobby education and, for example, the additional part of the Estonian language education. And this amount is temporarily higher because these children need more attention right now. But in the autumn, when our education system has so-called children's heads combined, we'll see how big that number has become by then. However, participation in recreational education and additional language training are currently taken into account both in early childhood education and in general education.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U15	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U16	Thank you, Mr President. You look kind of sleepy, too, like someone's been dragging you through the trial and keeping you up for a long time. I don't know who those people were. But, Minister, I will ask you two questions. At the beginning of your presentation, you said that it is up to you and the Ministry of Education to ensure that teachers pay competitively. Point one. The question is, do you think that teachers' pay is competitive today? And point two. The teacher's salary increase this year was probably, if I'm not mistaken, 7.3%, while we have an increase in prices, inflation is over 10%. Do you agree that the real income of teachers has, unfortunately, decreased?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U17	Thank you. At the time we made these decisions, I recall that we in the Ministry paid more than EUR 9 million, in addition to the various cuts, to teachers' salaries in order to raise as much as the average salary in the country had increased. But today, of course, the situation is different. Of course, there's no way I can argue with the numbers you said. Really, the purchasing power of teachers is lower than it was before. So teachers' pay should actually rise even more. Of course, it should have risen more before, but now, if this objective were the same as we had in mind when we made those decisions, then today it is. That's too bad. I hope, however, that we will be able to maintain 10,25 million support for recreational education. I'm not saying it like it's a joke, but we can raise teachers' salaries by other means.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U18	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister, you gave a little hope when you answered the previous question. But when we discussed the school network here, you said that you are not the Minister of Regional Affairs, you are the Minister of Education, and above all you must stand up for education policy. On the other hand, regional policy and education policy are still closely linked. If you were ordered to cut it, you took it away from the municipality because it is not the task of the state. But now my question is: would you be willing to give this remaining amount as part of the base income of the municipalities in the autumn, if the budget is to be made again, so that it can no longer be cut off just like this? Or are you ready to cut another four or five million in the fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U20	Thank you. I have also proposed that support for recreational education should be part of the local government base. It is very supported by the Minister for Regional Affairs. We'll discuss it with the local authorities. In my opinion, this would give local authorities precisely the assurance that this money exists and that they can manage it. But the minus is that paying out this support today depends on certain criteria that change in time. And if we give this support to the local authorities at the base, we will give it in the light of a particular situation. But situations may change, as in the city of Keila and Ruhnu, for example, has changed. And they have increased this support, not decreased it. Everything has its pros and cons and you have to consider them. But it's been a suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U21	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U22	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Well, looking at the clock now, it can be said that yesterday and the day before, we were in this Chamber discussing how to allow war refugees into the labour market. Really, housing and getting into work are the kind of things we are struggling with right now, but if you look at it in the long run, you really have to make a huge effort on the education system. Can you tell me how much additional expenditure this means for an additional budget? I don't know what kind of money you're gonna charge. And given that in [this] spring, it will play a bigger role, but it will continue to be important that children who are really traumatized by war, in addition to being able to complete general education, will be able to participate in activities in Estonian, Russian or Ukrainian. And if they are scattered all over Estonia, you must be able to participate in activities of interest everywhere. Is this $4 million to be put back in support of recreational education?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U23	Thank you for your question. Let me be clear: I'm not going to. There's no plan to put that $4 million back in there. It must also be taken into account that, in fact, the costs at the other end of the day are constantly increasing and the pressure on teachers to raise their wages is increasing significantly. At the same time, we see an increase in the number of children participating in recreational education. However, with regard to the employment and further training of war refugees, this area, namely the area of continuing training and everything concerning placement, is primarily dealt with by the unemployment fund. They have the means of today's knowledge to provide rapid retraining for war refugees, if necessary. We have said very clearly that all our VET centres are ready to offer a variety of additional training opportunities free of charge, just as we have in vocational education. What we have dealt with more specifically in the Ministry of Education and Research is the continuing training of educators who have arrived here. There are more than 400 of them today, and we certainly want to involve them as much as possible in our education system in order to support children from Ukraine in our education system. They can immediately work as assistant teachers, supporters and teachers with annual contracts. They do not meet the qualification requirements currently imposed on Estonian teachers, such as language requirements, and many of them do not have documents to prove which university they have graduated from and the degree from which they have received their pedagogical education. But we can deal with all of this. And a year's contract can employ these educators today. We are working to get a more detailed overview of exactly what the profession of these people is, how many chemists there are, how many physicists there are, how many enthusiasts there are. The teachers of hobby education are also among them. If we have to create a new school in Tallinn, for example, then we will definitely apply them. But also in schools where more Ukrainian children are already studying today, they could be recruited immediately. They have also expressed their wish, they are ready, they want to do this job. We are delighted about that, and we will certainly do so. This is also what the Ukrainian Minister of Education asked for at the meeting with the Ministers of Education of the European Union: implement those teachers who will come to you. And we're definitely gonna do it. So, an extra budget, which applications we're submitting. For further training, we have an application for training adult Estonian language teachers. This is probably what the Minister of Culture, who is involved in integration, has said that the interest in studying Estonian is very high. We do not have enough people who are willing to teach the Estonian language to war refugees at one point. To do this, we need to train Estonian teachers who, in turn, teach war refugees. I'm about to remember that. In my opinion, there were no additional costs with further training.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U24	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U25	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! These things that you read out, which are the reasons why we don't have these data, these are all very familiar terms for me. There were times, there were houses, I worked at the Estonian Youth Work Centre, and we worked on collecting all these data. We got all that information. I do not believe that this situation has deteriorated now or that there are no such things, but that those who provided this information may have left something unsaid. Maybe they didn't say well in that pulpit language. I don't want to believe that they don't monitor their field all the time, systemically. It was all working. Do you feel any opposition yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U26	I have no sense of opposition. I'm very proud of the team that works at the Ministry of Education and Science today. They're very professional, highly educated people. For example, there is a doctoral student in the field of hobby education who should soon defend his doctorate, unless he has already done so. I'm sure we're looking at these things systematically, trying to make things better on a systematic basis. When you say that you collected these data in your time, this data is not there, nor is it a question of local authorities or specific youth employment institutions having no such data. I'm sure they have the data. The question is how they reach the country. They could also systematically reach the country. And today, there is no system for them to reach the country, comparable databases. We can definitely do that because these data are there, they just need to be systematically collected.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U27	Thank you very much. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. First on behalf of the heirs, first on behalf of Indrek Saar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U28	Thank you for your answers to the Minister. Feedback: I am pleased that the Minister confessed to the sin that this decision made without talking to the local authorities is certainly not a good practice. I hope that this will be avoided in the future, both by this government and by future ministerial officials. But the thing that I am deeply saddened about is that it seems that this compromise, which was then negotiated with the Reform Party at the time when the Minister of Education and Research was Jürgen Ligi, that this measure was being developed by the Ministry of Culture and will be implemented by the Minister of Education, was one big mistake. Because we see that the Minister today, five years after the launch of this measure, says that he does not actually have any data. I would like to honestly ask what the Ministry of Education has done for five years if there are still no data on which to conduct a proper analysis. And let's add that the person who worked at the youth work center, which has been part of the Ministry of Education all along, claims that they had the data. But now they're gone. It is very sad to hear this, not to say that it is very upset, that so far this data is not actually collected, or that it cannot be lined up in such a way as to carry out some kind of analysis on them and move on from here. All the more so, of the 15 million which were then allocated to support the activities of interest, 250,000 of which were specifically intended for the administration of this matter. So this is the money that the Ministry of Education, then NTK, got to collect precisely these data to deal with it systematically. In fact, I would like to ask you if anyone is also responsible for the fact that five years have not actually been able to do so. And it's got the resources to do it. That is why I may be saddest about today's answers, that this is how money and data can be transferred in our lovely little country. This, of course, is also sad to hear from the Minister's replies that there is no plan to put these funds back, to apply for them back. The minister said yes, but now we can see that more children have come. But I would like to remind you that these additional resources were designed to motivate local authorities to find children who, for some reason, have not yet been regularly guided in their activities of interest. These children were more than half the age of 7 to 19 at the time the measure was launched. The number of children in the circle of interest increased significantly, i.e. there were already more than 60% after three years of this measure, but we would like them to be more than 90%. These would be exceptional cases if children did not enter the field of interest. So the fact that we are cutting funds down there and not going to put them back is completely backward thinking for me, and perhaps once again confirms that this is actually an area for which responsibility should be in the Ministry of Culture. In this ministry, who is more intertwined with this field. For the Ministry of Education, this does not seem to be a sufficiently serious issue apart from other activities. I hope, however, that the Minister of Education will reconsider and will be ready to correct his view of how much the state could allocate to this. All the more so because we see that two days have already been quietly prepared here to create jealousy in society [with the question], whether we give to those children who come here from Ukraine, but do not give to our children. In order not to give this part of the hall, the extreme populists, the opportunity to ignite this conflict in society, one could think once again about putting these resources back at least, not to mention that these instruments could grow in the future. Thank you for your attention. And thank you for your answers to the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U29	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U30	Thank you. Honourable fellows! Of course I'm here because the subject is important, but also because I've been forced to listen all night to the ambassadors of the Fatherland and the EKRE, let's just say, interesting different speeches, the level of which has also been very different. So I think, in revenge for this, forcing Martin Helme to listen to the social democrats now gives us a little pleasure. But the subject is also important. As the Minister said, it is indeed the task of the state to ensure a competitive pay for teachers. Today, unfortunately, this salary is not competitive and the current very good level of education in Estonia actually persists in the selfless work of our teachers, in the love of the teaching profession and in the sense of mission and in the desire that our children have the best possible education. One of my acquaintances, whose share of children has studied in English expensive private schools and others here in Estonia, says that interestingly, in England, there is no better education for expensive money than every child who goes to our regular school. And this, in my opinion, is one of the most critical tasks of the Estonian state to keep it that way. The rise in teachers' salaries, which really seems to be a beautiful figure - 7.3% this year - is, in fact, a wage cut in real wages in the light of the current price increases. In fact, the teacher, as well as the savior or police officer, can buy in the store or use as services today less than a year ago. And, of course, it's a very big problem. Teachers' average wage, gross earnings are 1653 euros. This is the size of the Estonian income tax system known to be more than 1200 euros, from which the tax-free minimum of the recipient starts to decrease. At the moment, perhaps the Estonian income tax system considers our teachers whose salaries are not competitive and whose wage increases are actually wage cuts to be so wealthy that they must be taken away from income tax. This week, the Social Democrats launched a bill in this Chamber, which bears number 562 and addresses this issue. The aim is to elevate the beginning of the tax hump and to bring out our teachers and nurses and other workers of great importance to the Estonian state from under the hump. Teachers would benefit from this tax change in the order of EUR 1000 per year. That's how much they'd get. I think it would be very important to deal with this draft seriously, and I very much hope that ladies and gentlemen will support it. Now, in the course of this earlier debate, the National Audit Office's report on the availability of primary services was also mentioned today. In fact, the same problems that we see today in education as regards teachers' salaries and the lack of teachers, we have in all other vital areas. We don't have enough family doctors, we don't have enough nurses, we don't have enough rescuers, we don't have enough cops. And the availability or quality of all or both of these essential services will, unfortunately, become worse in the coming years. The people of Estonia do not deserve this in any way. As a summary, why is that, why are we in this situation and why we see it... Is it possible for me to take a little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U31	It is. How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U32	How much is possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U33	Three minutes is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U34	I'll ask for three more minutes, good manager. I'm sure you'll be very excited to hear this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U35	I'm very excited.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U36	The problem is, in fact, that not only in this composition, but I would say, perhaps in the previous and previous composition, strategic decisions on the future of the country have not been taken. The thin state of Estonia will no longer be able to provide its citizens with the services that are essential for people, and in the future, it will be less and less able to provide our children with internationally competitive education, quality health services available to our people, internal security, as well as external security. Of course, it will be difficult until we understand that we do not realise that we need to think very seriously through the model of how we finance our country, so that our tax system is fairer, of course, to support the creation of wealth, but also to support the provision to our society of the essential services that I have talked about in my report. And now I have to announce that in addition, God has punished us with the speeches by Mr Kruusimäe and Mr Hepner, and I will next give the opportunity to share my thoughts with those gentlemen whose thoughts we always have undoubtedly great pleasure. Thank you, and have a nice night for my dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U37	Tarmo, do you want a line?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U38	Yeah, I'd like a line first. I thank the Socialists for allowing me more air time here. Of course, I didn't understand tagging them like that. It is possible that a lack of experience, or a narrower vision of the world, is [which is why] they think that the Conservatives [have] in some way less care for the Elephant of War, or that we would put them somewhere. War is an abnormal situation. The primary task is to end the war and restore the normal situation. People, including children, who have suffered from war, we have no one with this experience. On Monday, we had a meeting of the Trouble Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning. We were talking, there was a representative of each party. Unfortunately, there is no Helmen Hunter who would have enlightened the social democrats about these matters. That's an interesting question. Very few children from Estonia have even gone to school here this spring. Really? Do you realize that the world of these children is scorned, and now somebody's coming to tell you why they're not fulfilling their school obligations? We must be happy that these war refugees have arrived here and have not laid hands on themselves, not to begin to appreciate whether or not they should perform their school duties. That's one important moment, that was a bad comparison.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U39	Yeah! And now the negotiations, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U40	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good workmates on this side and on that side of the screen! And then our good voters, all of you who have chosen! You're always asking me how interesting it is who has chosen this Riigikogu. You guys have chosen! Now that the Social Democrats may have offered the Prime Minister to listen to me, he'll read it in the verbatim. The one who had given him this material was pretty powerful with true information, a deficit of truth. Raising the quality of youth work and evaluating it [the work] seemed to me most of the things seemed very irrelevant. However, I had quite an interesting experience that when assessing youth work, an external evaluator and an external expert also became themselves, broadening the view. I remember there was a place called Dog. The dog was a vocational school, and the owner of the vocational school stood in the corner with a band set. Just because when young people want to, let them do it. There were guaranteed for all these different opportunities. Now, if a text is given, I would like to start with what is the problem for me. We have an education of interest and an activity of interest. Making a band by itself doesn't fit like nothing. The fact that today, electric guitars may be paying less than a child's cell phone, no one's coming. The positive involvement of children in the band rehearsal activity, the expression of themselves in any way, does not find financial support from the local government, in case they do not want to contribute to it, nor from the ministry. Now, these data, how do they come? The data that came to us was always very wrong because it also stated how many young people were involved. I'll give you an example from Southeast Estonia. A small place, from there came the data about how many young people have participated in the student chess, how many young people participate in sports practice, how many young people participate in the student self-government. Then it turned out there were seven active young people, but we got 25 birds. This is not the data you really need. I know sociologists always wonder if any of the problems are that we're doing a study. Give me the money, we'll do a survey. IT guys are coming, we're going to app, we're about to get a program. Afterwards, the cup, the proge need more money, must be aligned with the other [programm]. And all these things, why don't you do something? When the minister said that [they] have a highly educated [people]. I don't mean to disparage, not that, but my personal experience tells me that a highly educated person doesn't have a priori with a high level of empathy. There are people who burn internally, and they can do things well. In today's crisis situation, we should think about these activities, the education of interest, because at some point we will have a thinner wallet and we will have to allow [at least] one positive action that young people are involved in. We're getting tougher, and we can't let the kids go. Clearly, it is no news to the Minister that the number of suicides among school students has increased quite brutally. It's a corona right now, but if we get any more complicated, we'll have outdoor training. We have Boy Scout organisations that are not really considered youth work. Yes, they can apply for the annual grant for youth associations, and the other half they needed came from the amount of gambling tax. This assessment paper, according to which youth associations were assessed. It turned out that in this case, when they get the maximum points, they are not really a youth organisation, they are even more organised than there are parties or some [other] larger associations. In the case of youth work, I think we could watch today that we have always allowed those people with fewer opportunities... I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U41	How much? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U42	But [previously] I was rough and couldn't understand these things. I mean, we should meet people who can handle their teeth at the cross. For a family with three children, an education of interest is extremely expensive, but they don't come to ask for help, they don't lower the bar. In youth work, it is extremely important to notice families where parents actually eat their own health in order to give the child something. When I was put in practice, I wasn't allowed to change practice until this training cycle was over. Cry or laugh! Today, parents are telling us what to do with musical instruments, because someday the child wanted to play the accordion, now he wants a violin, for example. I'm telling you to borrow a pill or make it clear [any other way] whether the child has an interest in it. But we've shot down the bar. What is very bad is that when Yana Toom became deputy mayor in Tallinn, the funding of private interest schools was reduced by one hundred per cent during her so-called educational management. The municipality was unable to provide everyone with high-quality activities, and then a private interest school came in. This funding was reduced. Now the same trend is actually in the Ministry of Education and Research. Someone here asked what had happened. There has been a party portfolio exchange at the Ministry of Education and Research. Maybe that's it. I remember very well that when Tõnis Lukas became Minister for Education and Science, he said that now we have to turn everything back again. Russian schools for Estonian studies according to 60:40 system. Previously, the Centre Party had just blocked this process and released textbooks, as long as this so-called curriculum, the learning goal, is met. But in what way the events of World War II were dealt with, it was already a teacher or book maker of his own free choice. We're only talking here today about recreational education. Outdoor training, Boy Scout organizations who already have few resources. Young learners must not pick up a rake, a shovel, because it can be damaged, and in Boy Scout organizations may. My acquaintances will build Prauor Molodjož, it will be a Boy Scout organisation for Young People in the Right Sector. There's no whining, there's no complaining, there's a will. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I want that will to come to you, good Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U43	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Before I come to the topics of interest education, I would like to take care of the issue thrown away by the Socialists or of the glove in any way. It seemed to me that Raimond Kaljulaid was no longer very fresh. Of course, early morning hours leave their mark, and neither in question nor in speech were they able to stick to the subject that this question specifically set out. But that's it. Rather, perhaps it would be worth looking at this item on which we spent yesterday and today or now we could say that the day before yesterday and yesterday, namely the Aliens Act. Well, it's sad that you still don't realize that 0.8 isn't more than 1 and one and a half isn't more than 2. That's exactly how it is with their salaries. Soots think that if we do not pay the average wage, but pay 0.8 average wages, then Estonia will be rich. No, Estonia will never be rich. But now to the questioning that you've been asking. This topic is really important. This is basically important to me too, which is why I also sat in this Chamber and listened to this debate. And I listened to the Minister. Let's take a look at the subject of the cut. I did some quick rations, too. The Minister said that 30,000 or 50,000 was the average of how much of the EUR was cut per municipality. This still means up to 100 young people in the municipality who have been affected by this cut. And for Estonia, as we approach well on average again, it means 4,000 young people. Of course, I know that there is no average person, and that on average, we can make some estimates of some trends in some order of magnitude. Whether it's 4,000 young people and 4 million euros a year is much or little, isn't it a matter of taste? In my opinion, this is actually a considerable impact. This was certainly mitigated to some extent by municipalities, covering these costs at the expense of other activities. At the same time, they again failed to do any other activity, even some very important activity: some roads were not repaired, or the teacher, who was desperately needed, was not paid any additional fee. Unfortunately, with municipal budgets, they don't actually run things off. And if we think that recreational education is an important component of education as a whole, and, on the other hand, education is crucial to our entire government package, then there are some ways of understanding that they are willing to cover these costs at the expense of other costs. But is that right? He certainly isn't. And now maybe the money left. In this sense, the Minister's speech was encouraging that he was willing to provide this local government revenue base and no longer as a target funding, but as a... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U45	Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U46	... only as basic income to the general income base. I understand that the Minister for Public Administration, who covers regional tasks, also agrees with this. So you both had to break the finance minister, who, I understand, didn't agree with that. Make this decision in the autumn and, believe me, you are out of line with the following questions and local governments can decide for themselves within their autonomy. In any case, I would very much commend you, and I would be very grateful if that were to happen. Indeed, municipalities are different faces and priorities, which you have also highlighted here. Some got more money, but maybe most of it fell. But they'll make the right decisions. We trust local governments, trust their leaders, trust the local people, and let's not think we're always the smartest here. Such a call would remain for me to ask you this question. That would be the most important thing. And let's make that change! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U47	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. Would the Minister like a final word? No, I don't. In such a case, the inquiry has been dealt with and all items on the agenda of today's sitting are closed. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U48	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Happy Question Time Monitors, both here and online! Let's start the 23rd March briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U49	20 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 81. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Technology, and Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Good fellows! Since seven issues have been previously registered, and given how quickly these seven issues will be over, I have the following proposal for you: there is one point to be specified for each question, and two additional questions can be submitted from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U50	First member of the Riigikogu asks Helir-Valdor Seeder, answers the Prime Minister, member of the government Kaja Kallas and the topic is education in Estonian. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U51	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question concerns the training of children of refugees. As we know, more than 20,000 refugees have arrived in Estonia today. The proportion of children who should be in school and who have an obligation to attend school is very high. The Ministry of Education has said and I understand that this is the general attitude and position of the government, as well as your view that the children of refugees should eventually reach Estonian-language schools. It's been said many times. [This should happen] in different ways, whether [children go] to existing Estonian schools or whether an additional Estonian Ukrainian school should be created and so on. We know very well that the refugees who have arrived are Ukrainian-speaking, and a very large part is Russian-speaking. At the same time, reality has become a little different. In Tallinn, in particular, practice shows that a large proportion of students who have already gone to school have mostly gone to Russian-speaking schools with a Russian language of instruction. The practice is therefore carried out contrary to the government's wishes. How, then, can the government in practice manage this process so that we can still achieve the objective of preventing the children of refugees from going to predominantly Russian-speaking schools? How is that possible, is that possible, and what is your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U52	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U53	Thank you for that question. This is really very important. When we knew war refugees were coming, we thought there would be more older people, but today it is clear that 39% of them are children, 45% are women and 16% are men. Of the children who have come, 61% are aged 8 to 18, i.e. of school age, while the rest are smaller. As of now, 417 children have already been registered in the education information system. I'd like to disprove your argument as if they'd gone to Russian-speaking schools. When I look at this material, I see that 60 of these 417 children have gone to early childhood education, 318 to general education, 31 to upper secondary school and 8 to vocational education. In schools with Estonian language of instruction, 417 children have 211 easy calculations, says that this is more than half of the number of children and 123 in immersion. Language bath classes are those where part of the instruction is in Estonian, part in Russian. 82 students and 1 student in an English-language school have gone to Russian-language schools. Perhaps the majority have gone to Estonian-language schools. It is important to understand that among the families coming from Ukraine are those who wish to return to Ukraine as soon as the military action is over, as well as those who have nowhere to go, so that they are likely to remain here for a longer period. Our position has really been that we need these children to be integrated in Estonia. This means that they should go to Estonian-speaking schools. Yes, it is a choice of parents, but we have also talked to the Ukrainian community, who wants these children to go to a school in Estonian or a language immersion school. Since there are really many children, we will probably also have to do one additional school. We could do this as a language immersion school, so that there would be 60% in Estonian and 40% in Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U54	Now for a more specific question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U55	Thank you. You didn't do too much to ease my concern with your answer. These numbers aren't very good. When we say that 211 out of 417, or practically half, statistically really slightly more than half, have gone to Estonian-speaking schools and the rest have not, it is seriously worrying. We know that even more than half of the children of refugees are, in fact, not Ukrainian, but Russian. So the Estonian-Ukrainian school is not the solution here either, unless the government is very clear about its plan and does not act forcefully or direct the process. Leaving it within the framework of the so-called current law, so that parents can choose for themselves, this process will become unmanageable, and we will finally discover that much has gone to Russian-speaking schools. I think this is a very bad option. How do we ensure that the end result is not either 40% or 30% for children that they reach Russian-speaking schools? There could still be thousands of these children eventually. I did not get a clear and reassuring answer to my question by listening to you. Maybe you'll explain. But in this context, when we are in a kind of emergency situation in connection with the war, we are also creating a precedent and doing an experiment by putting these Russian and Ukrainian students into the Estonian-speaking school and environment, trying to integrate them quickly, no matter how long they stay, and we think that this justifies itself. I hope so. Therefore, I have a question as to why we are trying to transfer Russian-speaking students living in Estonia to Estonian-language education as planned by the government only by 2035. We could do this a lot faster. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If people from a foreign environment are able to integrate right away, but here Russian and non-Russian students are unable to switch to [Estonian language learning], how do we explain this? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U56	Good questioner, your time! Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U57	Thank you. We have a very clear long plan. This is an action plan for education in Estonian, where there are very clear steps to be taken. We have also acted on this agenda to resolve this issue. Our goal is not to have more children in the Russian education system, but to be able to switch to Estonian. One element there is also the immersion of the tongue. You said you see, these kids are all going to Russian-speaking schools. I stress once again, look at the language immersion schools and Estonian-language schools: 334 of the 417 children have either gone to the language immersion school or to the Estonian-language school. It's the vast majority of these kids. The long plan is very clear. We also made decisions yesterday concerning schools in Ida-Virumaa. For example, we decided that we would invest 50 million in Estonian-language education in Narva for a long time, but we would invest 36.4 million in the Estonian-language educational campus, in addition to renovating the primary school in Narva city centre, which is conditional on these Russian-language schools switching to the language immersion method. There are 135 students in Estonian-language comprehensive school on the educational campus, in addition there is an Estonian-language gymnasium with 250 students, and a separate gymnasium with 60: 40 studies, which is a compromise solution. In addition, we decided to take over Kohtla-Järve Järve School so that this Estonian-language school could continue and create modern study conditions there. We have a number of points in the Estonian-language education agenda that we can still do. Your reference to children coming from a foreign environment being able to learn Estonian quickly is also, in my opinion, an argument for all those who have lived here for a long time and say that it is not possible to learn the Estonian language so quickly. If they can, then the members of our Russian-speaking community will be able to do exactly the same, and we will be able to take appropriate steps. But right now we are dealing with the problem of war refugees that has arisen in the education system in relation to children.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U58	Now two additional questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U59	Good manager! Sire! I also think that Ukrainians can acquire the Estonian language better. But two specific questions. Do you have any information on the number of children in Ukrainian? At the moment, I read that about 9,000 children should be here, with 5,500 of [ages] 8 to 18. How many of them are Ukrainian? It is very important how many Russian languages there are. The confusion is that the Russian language can also be Ukrainian-minded and vice versa. The second moment you said: many will remain here for a longer period. Can you tell me, do you have any oriental data of how many people there might be who stay here for a long time, even though many people want to go back as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U60	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U61	Thank you. Of course, we don't collect that kind of information. People can answer the same way, but reality is different. Today, the overwhelming view has been that they want to go back home quickly. We know that in Mariupoli, for example, 90% of all buildings have already been bombed to the ground, or there is nowhere to go. This is the situation we need to take into account. I do not currently have a specific number to tell you about languages, how many of them speak Russian and how many speak Ukrainian. But if we integrate them into the Estonian education system, into the Estonian-language school, then it does not matter to us what their home language is. I will answer the previous question: these Ukrainian children we will be able to continue education both in the short term and in the long term. It's three months till the end of the school year. Three months means that, for example, for larger children in Ukraine, distance learning allows them to graduate from Ukrainian school and receive this diploma as well. For this reason, they may not be registered on the Estonian school network at the moment. But it's clear we'll have a picture by autumn. We also deal with this on a daily basis so that these children can be registered, because children have a human right to education and they must be able to continue their education. The goal of the current three months for children who have come from war zones is also very much that they can adapt and that they actually adapt to the new system of things. We also pay attention to their mental health because many of them have had very difficult experiences; they have suffered. For all children, we must provide a school place as soon as possible. This is the responsibility of the state and local government. We will do this together, the local government and the state, according to where these children are then. But yes, as many of them speak the language at home, I don't have that information in detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U62	Now for the second additional question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U63	Thank you. Prime Minister! I still didn't quite understand the plan the government had. I am about to say that I very much support the idea of creating an Estonian-Ukrainian school, although we must realise that it can be an exception and hopefully temporary, because we have set ourselves the goal of moving to a unified Estonian-language education system. We face the problem of having a bilingual education system. When we create a Ukrainian-speaking school, we have a trilingual education system. We certainly must avoid this and realise that this is an exception in the current situation. I very much support this approach. But I didn't understand how the government is still trying to direct the choice of refugees, parents, within the framework of the existing law. As you yourself said, 211 have chosen Estonian-language schools and 82 Russian-speaking schools. Perhaps this relationship is roughly that almost 40% have chosen a Russian-speaking school. It's a reality. So how does the government try to guide it in practice? There is also the possibility to adopt a separate law and to introduce a regulation that acts with the children of refugees in such a way that the state establishes a separate law, treats them separately under the law, and assumes a greater role and responsibility for the training of these children. Then I would understand that the government is capable of directing this process. But right now, it seems to me that local authorities are acting very differently, and the government is unable to direct this process in any way. Secondly, however, if we are now ready to put Russian-speaking and Ukrainian-speaking children into Estonian-speaking school overnight, why are we still at the point that the local Russian-speaking students only have to switch to Estonian-speaking education in 2035? It doesn't fit my head.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U64	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U65	Thank you. First of all, you were in the government, and nothing was done to make these things happen, as you are expressing very strongly here right now. But I still want to correct it. Of the 417 children, 334 are 80%. They go to language immersion schools and Estonian-language schools. This picture you're trying to paint, like they're going to Russian-speaking schools, it's just not true. Don't keep cutting it. The second thing we're going to do is direct it. We need to create new places for school. Although primary schooling, general education, is the responsibility of the local government, in this case it is an exceptional situation and our plan is to make this additional school by the state. Then it is also under control that it is a school that is taught in Estonian. We have received nearly 400 teachers and educators from Ukraine today, such as logos and people who are helping [in school]. We can use these people to inhabit the children of Ukraine. We are not going to do a Ukrainian-speaking school, but a school where they will receive Ukrainian in addition and support. How do we control it? The state is creating this school and the state is also setting the conditions for this school. Just as we have made these decisions in Ida-Virumaa, precisely because local authorities have not been very willing to develop education in Estonian. That is why we have taken it into our own hands so that we can make these decisions and still move forward with education in Estonian. So what does that mean? Of course, also the allocation of additional money, we need additional teachers who will help and who will be able to teach. We have also decided to allow Ukrainian educators to take Estonian language courses quickly so that they can dive into the Estonian education system. I would also like to say that I had a conversation with Ukrainian communities who actually understand exactly the same way that it makes sense to go to the Estonian education system, not to go to Russian, just so that there are no additional tensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U66	Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U67	I'm so sorry. Somehow uncomfortable and unpleasant it is here to make statements and clarifications in the procedural question format. I don't want to descend at all to who did something and who did nothing, like the Prime Minister's assessment was here. I think this is very inappropriate in this Chamber. Let's keep it right. But I specifically used the numbers that the Prime Minister himself read: 211 Estonian-language schools and 82 Russian-language schools. I didn't come up with anything or disinformation. It's kind of inappropriate to give such a signal here that you don't use these wrong numbers and priorities anymore, still like this. And the immersion of the tongue is yet another phenomenon. So I guess I stayed correct. And in order to formulate it in the form of a question, does the President think and think that it is fully in line with the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure, if I operate precisely with the figures that the Prime Minister says and use them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U68	Thank you. It's a good thing we operate on one number, it's definitely a good thing. But now I'm gonna stop looking at the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U69	We will go to the second question, which the member of the Riigikogu, Reuben Kaalep, will answer, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the topic is the closure of Ukraine's sky. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U70	Thank you! Prime Minister! As you know very well, the Riigikogu adopted an appeal on Mother's Day, in which we call on the United Nations Member States to take immediate steps to establish a no-fly zone to prevent mass civilian casualties in Ukraine. This statement, the appeal, was accepted in an extraordinary consensus. The majority of the coalition and opposition ambassadors voted in favour of this, so it can be said that this position clearly expresses the will of all political forces represented among the Estonian people. The introduction of a no-fly area is still extremely topical and is increasing as we see Russian troops entangled in land operations using increasingly cruel, increasingly brutal air attacks to terrorise the Ukrainian people and break their resistance. We see it in Kiev, we see it in Kharkivi, and perhaps most cruelly in Mariupoli, where more than 80% of the city has been destroyed because of both air and artillery activities. Thousands, maybe even tens of thousands of civilians have died. It is precisely with air strikes that the drama theatre was destroyed, from which it is still impossible to save all people because the city is being held under fire. In this situation, the Western countries, including our allies, are acting extremely timidly; they have still ruled out direct military intervention. What is the Estonian Government doing as your Prime Minister to guide our allies into establishing a no-fly zone, just as the Riigikogu wanted in its statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U71	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U72	Thank you. As you point out very correctly, the establishment of a no-fly zone is a decision of the UN Security Council. The Riigikogu also addressed the UN. After all, 141 countries in the United Nations have condemned Russia in general, but Russia is a member of the UN Security Council and Russia has a veto right there. Perhaps the legal basis is due to a decision of the UN Security Council. These rules have been established since World War II. It would not have been possible to believe that Russia itself would engage in such an activity. In order to establish a no-fly zone, the approval of the State shall also be required. It probably exists because Ukraine has asked for it. If we look at what has been done in Ukraine, the damage is mainly done with the driving beam. Bombed with a driving beam even as far away as the Caspian Sea and this no-fly zone is not hindered in any way. It is clear that Estonia itself does not even have planes to enforce the no-fly zone. This has been done three times in the past: in Bosnia, Libya and Iraq. What was the difference? It was known that their air defence systems were quite weak and that the conflict could indeed end in this way. Russia's air defence systems and Russia's forces are quite large. The question is, in fact, for those countries bordering Ukraine, and for those countries that have planes, why do they not want to do this no-fly zone then? The main concern that the leaders of these countries have is that in this case the war will also extend to the territory of these countries. The Heads of State have a responsibility to their country and their people, and no one wants a war in their home. NATO allies are still the rule of law. The rule of law is based on the rules agreed upon, and these rules are that a UN Security Council decision would be necessary to establish a no-fly zone, unless another country intends to intervene on another basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U73	Specific question, Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U74	Yeah, thanks! Prime Minister! It seems a little that you are trying to underestimate or make it irrelevant to paint the clearly expressed will of the legislative power of the Republic of Estonia. You say that as if the no-fly zone would be of little use, because most of the damage is caused by the driving beam, but at the same time we are still seeing increasing air strikes by Russia. Plus, Russia controls Ukraine's airspace to a large extent, which is one of the main obstacles to counter-attacking Ukrainian forces, which in turn would create the prerequisites for reaching a peace agreement. It is through this that Ukraine has the opportunity to go against the counter-attack that is also the first prerequisite for bringing this humanitarian disaster to an end. Secondly, you say that since there is a veto in the UN Security Council in Russia, there is no point in raising this issue there at all. In fact, Ukraine has asked, and the statement of the Riigikogu mentions the Member States of the United Nations, which does not necessarily require this to take place on the basis of a resolution adopted by the United Nations Security Council. As a country very closely linked to Ukraine morally, historically, culturally and geographically in every way, Estonia should direct our best allies here precisely in order to listen to Ukraine's request for help, whether Russia vetoes it in the Security Council or not. How do you answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U75	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U76	Thank you. Of course, the will of the Riigikogu is a law for the government and, of course, the government acts according to the statement of this Riigikogu. However, as the Riigikogu knows, the Riigikogu has therefore asked to address the UN countries. Of course, they're always in contact, that's what we do. There's no way I'm subjugating it. I see exactly what's going on in Ukraine, and just as much as I hurt my heart, isn't there really anything we can do yet to end this madness, this horror there? Exactly the same. So we're on all the lines. In the same way, the Riigikogu has asked to address the UN countries, and that is what our ambassador is doing there. This communication is everyday. However, these decisions are made, so far the UN Security Council has had the right to establish a no-fly zone in accordance with the rules. This has been agreed and has been the case. There's no way I'm undermining that concern. I have said this myself, for example, at NATO level. The Riigikogu did not really ask for NATO to be dealt with. At NATO level, too, we have discussed and raised the question of whether we really cannot do anything further. If we look at the decisions we have made in two years' time, have they been the right ones? If it may be possible to end this war now, so that the suffering of the Ukrainians will end, then this war will certainly not extend further. But if we do not make this decision, it may also be that the Ukrainians have suffered and some other countries will suffer further. But we don't know all that right now. So it's constant communication with the allies, constant communication with other countries. Finally, [must agree] still those countries that are specifically going to lower these planes. After all, the no-fly zone would not only be for Russian aircraft, but also for Ukrainian aircraft and drones, which have so far been quite successful in breaking up convoys, that is what needs to be discussed and agreed with precisely those countries that have the means to intervene.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U77	Now for the first additional question, Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U78	Thank you! I understand the procedure allows me to ask you more. Good Prime Minister! At the beginning, I specifically asked very specifically. You've just branded it in a very general way. To which heads of state, members of government, government authorities have Estonia specifically addressed this request or the idea that we strongly recommend considering the introduction of a ban area over Ukraine? Could you give some concrete examples, perhaps? Secondly, you have just mentioned, like last week, that a no-fly zone would mean that Ukraine would not be able to use drones. I do not understand what this statement is based on. In the sense that if a restricted area was to be created specifically at the request of the Ukrainian Government, it would be absurd if we imposed it on its own military means, in addition to the aggressor. It doesn't make any sense. I'd like the answers to these two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U79	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U80	Thank you. First of all, this list of countries. You can take it apart, there's a list of countries in the United Nations. This communication is ongoing at all levels. We have an ambassador to the United Nations for this, we operate at different levels. The diplomats deal with communication, I deal with communication. Have we made official written requests that can be registered and can I present to you? No, that's not what I know, and that's not how it works. This interaction is between the allies at all levels. I've had a lot of meetings myself, and there are meetings this week. Tomorrow morning, there will be a NATO summit with 30 NATO countries, and then there will be a European Council where you can talk to the leaders of the European Union. So there are these issues. I was simply pointing out the concerns expressed by the various representatives in this debate. It is not as black and white as it is to present or agree on these matters, precisely because this mandate has so far been given by the decision of the UN Security Council. The second is that, since the enforcement of a no-fly zone also means bombardment of air protection systems, but these air defence systems are located in Russia, it would also mean the movement of active military action to Russia, which those countries that have aircraft do not want, because they do not want this war in their home. That is how these prime ministers justify it. What can I say? We don't have any planes, we can't use any coercive tools, we can't force people to do that. Each Head of State or Prime Minister is responsible for his country and people and makes these calculations accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U81	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U82	Let's move on to question three. It is presented by Jaak Juske, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is managing young families. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U83	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Kaja Kallas! When you read the latest news, you must first congratulate you for continuing to be Prime Minister. But I'd like to talk about a completely different subject concerning one of your government's first decisions. As you know, when you started last year, you started with budget cuts and, unfortunately, by significantly cutting support for children's and young people's interest education and activities. This support moved to young families through local authorities. Now the new financial year has been going on for several months and, in my opinion, the impact of this extremely foolish budget cut will also be seen. In a situation of rapid price increases, it is precisely young families that have become considerably more difficult to cope with. It is precisely the children from these families who have become much more difficult and difficult to access to recreational education and activities. At the same time, local authorities need additional funding to enable children from the families of Ukrainian refugees to have an interest in education and activities. Prime Minister! Are you finally willing to admit that this savings on children was a very stupid decision? What steps is the government finally planning to take to improve the situation of young families and municipalities in order to enable them to receive an education of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U84	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U85	Thank you. First of all, I should say that the Estonian economy was doing exceptionally well last year. While the Estonian economy grew by 8.3%, our neighbours in Finland grew by 3.3%, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden grew by 4.8%. Of course, economic growth was also directly reflected in people's incomes. Compared to 2020, the average gross wage increased by 7% and reached EUR 1756 in December 2021. When you look at young families, it is good to see that the incomes of young people increased last year. 62.1% of young people aged up to 24 years had an income increase of more than 50 euros over the year, 58.6% of young people aged 24 to 34 years had an income increase of more than 50 euros over the year, and 53.2% of young people aged 35 to 44 years had an income increase of more than 50 euros over the year. The monthly minimum wage also rose by 70 euros, which is nearly 12%. Looking further at the fact that, due to the increase in energy prices at the end of the year, we also took mitigation measures, including a very targeted measure that compensated 80% of the price increases for district heating, electricity and gas for people whose incomes were below the median, it can be seen that there were aid measures. In fact, our people do not do badly by numbers. If you go around Estonia, the feedback is also very good for many companies. Wages have also increased and people's incomes have increased, but it is clear that we are facing difficult times. This is because there is war in Ukraine, sanctions have been imposed and it flows everywhere, into other areas of activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U86	Now, the question to be specified. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U87	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! It is, of course, great to hear that Estonia is doing well. The strangest thing is why the government had to start budget cuts, and more so at the expense of young families and children. It doesn't make any sense! When your predecessors introduced this kind of hobby education support, the number of young people involved in hobby education increased considerably, by thousands of young people. Do you have an overview of how many young people involved in recreational education have changed since last year? If we consider the refugee crisis, how much have the municipalities asked the government to support today in order to enable children from refugees' families to receive an education of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U88	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U89	Yeah. Sometimes, if you want to ask me about a hobby education, tell me you want to ask me about a hobby education. When you put your question under the heading "Youth's Family Management," I will also prepare to respond to the issue of the livelihood of young families. I don't have any of those recreational numbers with me. Not because I want to hide them somehow, but because there was no indication of your question that you wanted to know more about it. I don't want to start shooting from the old memory here how much local government income has increased. I remember that money was over 100 million, which could also be used for recreational education. The municipality has competence in the field of hobby education. It has been a good thing that the state has allocated additional funds for this. For recreational education, we are still allocating money so that local authorities can offer it. But this is the task of the local government itself. The municipality decides what it spends the money for. After all, local elections also took place, and the elections allowed people to make it very clear that, for example, they wanted the local government to channel more money into the education of interest. The question of the children of Ukraine. Yes, we have this package on our own and we are discussing it. We also come up with an additional budget to provide additional support, so that no child in Estonia is left without an interest education. We had these disputes on that occasion too. It is not always the money for the education of interest that has moved to where the children are, but it has been used in the past, depending on the municipality's discretion. We can continue this debate. If I know sometimes that you want to know about it, I will prepare it accordingly, and this debate will be much more meaningful.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U90	Now for the first additional question, Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U91	Prime Minister! Of course, you don't have to have all the numbers in your head completely understandable. We will certainly continue the debate on the same subject tonight, apparently with the Minister for Education. But I could have gotten a clear statement from you today that this budget cut or savings from children was the wrong decision. You are still not prepared to accept this, you are convinced that budget cuts should start at the expense of children. Okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U92	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U93	Thank you. When we started in the government, we inherited a budget with a yawning hole of 1.27 billion. This meant that there had been more expenditure than revenue. It is clear that all ministries were given the task of looking for austerity points, and I am pleased to note that quite a few austerity points were found. Why should we stick together? We need to save to be prepared for the dark days. However, it was true that money had been spent in good times and not much had been set aside for the black days. Those black days are now here. We are likely to have a recession in view of the war that is taking place, given the sanctions. This means that less money will be received in the state budget, which means that we also have more people in need. We have come with war refugees who need support, we probably have people who are losing their jobs, and unemployment is increasing. We must also support these people. We also need money for protection, for wider population protection. There are very, very, very many financial needs. Thanks to the fact that all the ministries were looking for and found potential administrative austerity points, I think we're going to go into this crisis a little stronger than we were before. Again: no child should be left without an education of interest. Local authorities gained [the money] to do so, and local governments' budgets, according to my memory, went to over EUR 100 million. There, too, is this support for recreational education. So there should certainly not be a child's education of interest behind this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U94	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U95	Let's move on to question four. It will be presented by Raivo Tamm, a member of the Riigikogu, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer it and the subject will be a defence policy. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Isamaa has initiated a draft in the Riigikogu, which provides for an increase in Estonia's defence capabilities and a surge in defence costs. The National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu already agreed to a consensual address to the government on 25 November, which called for a significant increase in the share of defence expenditure in gross domestic product and decided to create a mid-earth air control capability, considering taking on a defence loan if necessary. The media have made it sound that it is not appropriate to set up mid-earth anti-aircraft in the short term for the Reform Party. This is intended to be pushed quite far away even in the current security situation. Isn't this a brake on the development of Estonia's defence capabilities? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U97	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U98	Thank you. On the contrary, we have not said anywhere that we would be against mid-earth anti-aircraft, but we are actively working to get this mid-earth anti-aircraft quickly from our allies. Now that the debate is about what we are currently putting additional defence investments into, it is clear that if we now invest in mid-earth air control, where there is procurement, there is a long process, it will not result in us until years later. Our goal is to get so far in the negotiations with our allies that we can get this mid-range anti-aircraft right now. In a large way, the picture of national defence spending is that we made these decisions already in mid-January to invest further in national defence. I also went to the Riigikogu with a political statement to make these steps faster. Then, of course, the war began on February 24. I therefore very much agree with you that we need to invest further in national defence. For me, there are three questions that need to be answered. Question 1: Do we need to be prepared for today's situation, or are we preparing for something that will come in 2025? The answer, in my opinion, is that we must be prepared for today's situation. The second question that needs to be answered is what capabilities we get from our allies, how this puzzle comes together. We should still have an answer to that in the coming months. The third question to be answered is that which has worked in Ukraine. Defence experts are looking very closely at what has worked in Ukraine, including what the weaknesses of our opponents are to know how we can strengthen ourselves and be prepared. These are the three questions that we should also make additional investments in defence on the basis of the answers. I am listening here to experts in my field and to the Commander of the Defence Forces, who, along with his team, is very closely monitoring what is happening in Ukraine now and what we can use as lessons there. My goal is to make these decisions quickly. Indeed, we have a great opportunity at the moment, having made decisions in January, because we can use the same framework conditions in terms of price, we have not had a six-fold price, just as he has gone to others who only started to act after the war had already begun.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U99	Now, the question to be specified, Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U100	Thank you. In the case of defence, we also need to talk in the Defence League line. As a defence ally, I ask how the increase in the expansion of land protection is covered by the operating costs involved and how it is linked to another 2% cut in the operational costs of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U101	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U102	Thank you. We're putting so much more into protection right now that there's no mention of any cuts there. We invest in protection, on the contrary, we put a lot of money in it. Very correct point, strengthening the Defence Union is also a proposal that I very much support. It is for this reason that, once again, when we look at the situation in Ukraine, these are the people who are still going to fight for Estonia, should this situation arise. Let us hope so and do everything we can to ensure that this situation does not arise. But these people must have the certainty that they have weapons, they have protective equipment, if that need arises. So the strengthening of the Defence Union is part of what I very much support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U103	Now for the first additional question, Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I'd like to continue with mid-range anti-aircraft. You have asked three important questions here. I'd like to try to answer one of them. Unfortunately, the Allied forces, our allies, also have few central and long-range anti-aircraft units, because it has not been considered necessary to develop them since the end of the Cold War. I'll just give you an example. Now that it is finally decided that Slovakia could give its Soviet long-range anti-aircraft weapons systems S-300 to Ukraine, which Ukraine would urgently need, one battery from the Netherlands and two from Germany to compensate for it. Perhaps three batteries of Patriot will be replaced as long as Slovakia is able to acquire a new system if it surrenders [the old ones]. Similarly, the US has called on Turkey to hand over S-400, the latest type of long-range anti-aircraft weapon systems to Ukraine. But, of course, Turkey will also immediately see that the United States should give them the same value, for example, in place of the Patriots. These units aren't too many of our allies. Here's the problem. Of course, for example, General Kert pointed out in his final article the need for midland air control: this is our most important power gap. There are different reasons why this would be necessary. For example, to cover the arrival of the Allied forces. I don't have a question, but I just remind you that this is a very important issue, and that is something that the entire National Defence Committee has consensually identified to the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U105	Thank you. But I would point out that we are in Question Time and that we have questions to ask. Prime Minister, would you like some? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U106	Thank you. I'm sure you're much, much smarter than I am in the field of defense. I'm not able to debate this with you, but I don't want to. I agree that this is a very important issue; air protection is a very important issue. I had myself taken a short course on air defense weeks or months ago, just how far small air defense bubbles and medium-ranged, what are the devices? I have not been an expert in this field. I'm not ashamed to admit that I listen to experts and have them explain to me. But I believe you also agree with me that if we make this decision today, it will not help us today, but it will help us in years' time, because we will not have anywhere to buy this air defense system right now. Therefore, our efforts at the moment are aimed at getting these air defense systems from our allies. That way we can get them much faster than when we start getting them ourselves. One does not rule out the other, [it is not the case] that we should not make these investments in the future and should not prepare for these investments. But I believe that you will also answer the question whether we must be prepared for today's situation or prepare for 2026, that we must rather be prepared for today's situation. It also sets certain limits on the decisions we have to make at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U107	Now for the second question, Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U108	Thank you. I'll continue on the Defence League. It is now known that there will be a very large number of new members of the Defence League. But we can't just give them guns. They need instructors to train them, but there have been a lot of instructors coming from the Defence League in connection with the cut-down plan. It's just that there aren't people who deal with these new volunteers, there's a shortage. Looking at the views and initiatives taken by the various parties in the Riigikogu, it is clear that there is support for increasing the cost of defence. So let us decide together, as the draft initiated by the Fatherland states, that we will increase the cost of defence and close the missing power gaps at an early pace. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U109	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U110	Thank you. Yeah, it looks like there's a big race going on here, everybody wants to show you how to invest even more in defence. But I think we have a very large joint here. The common part is that everyone thinks that there is really a situation at present where more investment should be made in defence. I am simply saying that when I went before you in January with a political statement to make these investments, I did not feel that consensus. The fact that it's here today, I think, is very good. In the case of the Defence League, I absolutely agree with you. There is a great urge at the moment, people are asking how I can still protect Estonia, how I can contribute. The interest in joining the Defence League has increased a great deal. That is why, in this package, in the defence consolidation package, we have what is inside as regards the size of the Defence League's defence circles and militias. The goal is for us to move from 7,500 fighters to 20,000 fighters trained and equipped. This still means a surge in investment, which also means a surge in investment. So this is among the proposals we are currently discussing. In my opinion, this is indeed extremely important, because people's desire for protection has risen and it must also be possible to realise the will for protection of people. To do so, they need training, and it is the Defence League that is the right place to do so. So strengthening the Defence Union is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U111	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U112	Let's move on to question five. It is presented by Peeter Ernits, member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Andres Sutt, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, and the topic is the fast-track construction of the LNG terminal. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U113	Good Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. On Monday, it turned out that the government was planning to build a kilometer pier for LNG in the Gulf of Laheperé Bay and rent or buy one LNG tanker for 50 million. Well, that's the rental price, as I heard, 300 is when you buy the real one. But these jobs, according to these reports, last two or three years, they're wild work. But my question: when is it real then that this LNG would reach Estonia as an alternative to Russian gas? Has the government discussed this? How many years does it take? Is this Gulf Bay project the only one, or does Muuga or some other place qualify?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U114	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U115	Thank you. Good questioner! The government has once discussed the whole LNG terminal issue and we will come back to this more in-depth debate next week. I think it is important to understand the context that, after 24 February, the whole security situation has clearly changed; it has also changed in energy. If we look at price fluctuations as well as price increases, it is clear that security of supply is one of the most important things. With electricity, we are doing well in this area, as a result of all previous investments and preliminary work, and actually with gas. Let us take this example: if there is no gas coming from Russia via a pipe, then it is clear that the region in this region is the Baltic States plus Finland But it is very important that we have a gas pipeline connection to Finland in the form of the Balticconnector, and similarly from May there is a connection between Lithuania and Poland. So all these connections and infrastructure investments are extremely important. Coming from here to the LNG terminal, then yes, to the pipeline gas is the only alternative to LNG. That is why we are considering these different options now. Where to do or not to do, this decision has not been made. But it is clear that time is also an important determinant here. Therefore, alternatives have also been looked at, including whether it is possible to create this capacity faster than two or three years, as you said. I think that one of the most important dimensions of solving this whole task is that we need to have a common understanding and agreement with Finland, Latvia and Lithuania, because Estonia's own gas consumption is relatively low compared to Finland or Lithuania, and therefore, in terms of purely volume, it makes sense to carry out it as a joint project. But just like I said, the final decision, how exactly, we'll discuss next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U116	Thank you. More questions... Oh, there's still a question of clarification. I have a request, members of the Riigikogu, please be more operational when you turn the question on the [button]. Specific question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U117	Good manager! I had it in from the beginning, but it must have disappeared somewhere. I'm sorry! We will come to the Pakri Peninsula with a more precise question. There should be a mile of a mule rising on the west bank so that the LNG tanker can come and [our] Russian gas will be released. But on the west bank there are ports of Paldiski. Yesterday, hundreds and thousands of cars were reloaded, heading for Russia. The Mercedes are now on the line, as I was told, but now it's the Hyundai. The Hyundai slept all night last night, they were moved, they're on hold for Russia. My question is, is this one peninsula, two shores and a different attitude? Do you have any information about whether it is now with these sanctions and anti-Russian restrictions that the Mercedes were terminated, but the Hyundai will be engulfed in Russia? Or are they going somewhere else? Or maybe they'll come for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U118	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U119	Thank you, good questioner! It has nothing to do with the LNG terminal, but I'll answer as much as I can. As for the Hyundai cars you're referring to, I can't tell you where it's planned to take them from here today. However, if we look at the reaction of a very large number of multinational companies to the continuation of business in Russia, it has been very unambiguous. Very, very many, certainly over 300 companies, now perhaps even more, have decided to cease their business in Russia in connection with the military activities of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. I think there's going to be a market here, too, a very strong influence. There have also been a number of oil processing companies, for example, who themselves have given up buying Russian oil in order to make any fuel out of it. I believe that Hyundai will also make a choice based on his values, where he will sell his products and where he will not sell it. Whether he has a plan to sell these cars to Russia, I don't know how to answer you today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U120	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U121	Let's move on to the next question. It is presented by Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is war refugees. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U122	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good lord! We are in the most difficult situation after the Second World War, where travels on the "travel" is perhaps too leniently said, for millions of people fleeing from their homes from war. In this context, I am trying to understand that when the government initially said that we could deal with 10,000 refugees, more than 21000 refugees have reached Estonia today and are talking about up to 100,000. I am absolutely convinced that I do not know the final correct number, and you probably do not know it either. If any one of us encounters someone [of them], it is obvious that every refugee in war must be helped. But I have a question in this context. The government has come to an understanding here through the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, and we are in this moment, when we are unable to predict the future once and for all, on the way to changing the fundamental foundations of our migration policy. Although we know that we need to help a large number of war refugees, despite this, the government did not come to Parliament with a legislative amendment that would regulate [this subject] and help only war refugees, but the amendments to this draft, which, as I said, have come to us through the Constitutional Committee of the Government into the Riigikogu proceedings, are much wider. On what grounds, or why did the government decide in the current context, where we cannot reasonably predict the future, to take the path towards the foundations of migration policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U123	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U124	Thank you. As you know very well, the Aliens Act, which is in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, has been in the proceedings of the Riigikogu since the previous government, which is not a new draft that has now been submitted, but has been lengthy. This procedure was initiated by the governments of the Centre Party, the Fatherland and the EKRE, amending the Aliens Act. Indeed, there have been improvements, which also relate to the current crisis. Now I come to the beginning of your question. This 10,000 refugees had been said with the idea that 10,000 would be the number that our society would probably not even recognize, society would simply absorb it, we would not even see these people, they would go to work and school, so that there would be no bigger ones to see. More of these people mean that we have to consider as a society as a whole that we have to share services between war refugees and the people here, and the pressure is different, different services. When we initially thought that we would have more elderly people and that this would put pressure on social services or pension systems in particular, today it is known that older people do not want to escape very much, they say that they are born in Ukraine and that they will die there, and they will fall behind. So actually, we have 39% of children, and that puts pressure on our school network. We must make a great deal of effort and major restructuring there. Or, with restructuring, we need to create additional school places, which of course means additional money. I also agree with you that if refugees come and they really run from the war, we won't tell 10001. What is interesting is that over 20,000, or half, of those who have come by now, have gone to their acquaintances and have not asked us for any help. In fact, it is not the case that they come all for our help, but they come to their friends and family. Therefore, only later will it probably be clear what services they need when they show up. So this is all going to happen gradually.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U125	A more specific question, Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U126	Thank you. Once again, I will probably have more than you, because you will probably have more to know about unpleasant surprises than anyone would want. I don't know what to predict. As I said, we probably do not know what this crisis is going to be and how long it will last. My question. Lucky for me the day before yesterday, I know that the country has not gone anywhere to bring any war refugees itself, at least at the end of the PPA page, it says that people are no longer recommended to go after anyone. I have a question as to whether there is an accounting. I understand and know this, and as I have pointed out, we must, of course, help every fugitive we face because of the signs and will of the rule of law. But do we have any revelations about how many war refugees we can help? You referred to various services. We'll probably be able to make some adjustments on this basis. Since these are not older people, then school places and all things. Society has some sort of tolerance. Just as we predict how much the people of Estonia need for a pension, which costs a school place and so on, we are likely to be able to do so in connection with the refugees of war. Do we have some sort of adjustment today in the context of these different services, the number of people we can help, and the length of the period during which we can help? Those we can't help, do we have agreements with the Nordic countries or anyone, is anyone in the next countries, so to speak, ready to accept them? Because, as I said at the beginning, we don't have a chance not to help them. But what about them? The worst part is that we say come here and deliver, but you can't really help. What are these activities, our abilities, and our actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U127	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U128	Thank you. A very multiplicity question, I'm starting to branch it out. First of all, it is true that 39% of the children are coming, 45% are women and 16% are men. 95% of the women and men who have come are of working age. If they go to work, they'd rather contribute to our economy, and they'll get the tax on it. So this is one place, whether they go to work or not, and how simplified or easy it is to get to work. In the case of employment, 61% of children are of school age, which means that the rest are smaller, which again takes some of these women away from the labour market. That's the part. There are, like, so many equations. I've been asking you all along what the final number is that we can say. As I said, since it would have been impossible for us to feel it at all in the case of 10,000, we have already decided to initiate consultations on the distribution of refugees or the distribution of the burden on helping refugees. The Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior are working on this at European level to prepare it. In the case of refugees, the reality is that there is no automatic redistribution. I'll take a look at my notes. In principle, they can be resettled if they themselves agree and the host country agrees in the same way that this temporary protection will be extended. These consultations, as I said, we have already begun. We may well have a good thing that, since we restored border controls from the very beginning, we actually have a fairly good overview of those people who go to their acquaintances and do not turn themselves in. We know who is coming, and we know who is going to Finland, for example. This is not the way other countries keep this record right now, but I think it is a good thing, because we can prepare better. Trends between different services have, of course, been made. One more thing. At European level, of course, we are also asking for additional help to deal with the flow of refugees. Our burden compared to, for example, some other countries is greater, and it is precisely in order for us to be able to provide these services that we are doing all of this at European level today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U129	Now two additional questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U130	Good manager! Sire! I read the Saarbrücker Zeitung, fresh. There's a story about Klaus Bouillon, Minister of the Interior of Saarland, making a statement and saying that the size of Saarland is full. He says that there were 80 Ukrainian refugees a day before, and now it's gone to 300, and a million people live in the island. A total of about 2,000 Ukrainian war refugees have come to them since the 24th. My question is whether the government has discussed when the government can say that our scale is full, bearing in mind the ability of society to integrate and accommodate [the refugees]. The island is much richer than us, and the population is not much smaller than we have here. "When 300 people come a day, the land of Saar is full. "• Klaus Bouillon.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U131	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U132	Thank you. First of all, we must make a great deal of effort to bring this war to an end, we must deal with pressing Putin with sanctions, isolating Russia and making them make different decisions in order for this war to end. When this war ends and certain places in Ukraine are safe, these people can go back. But what I'm saying is that these people who have come here are war refugees, they're running from war. In Mariupoli, 90% of the buildings have been bombed to the ground. These people have nowhere to go. The pictures we see from Kiev, which we see from Kharkiv, which we see from various cities in Ukraine, are heartbreaking. For me, it is important that the people who run away, mostly women with their children, they flee from this war, from the horrors of war, and the least we can offer them is the sense of security, because there is no such war. I am very pleased that the people of Estonia have been so open-hearted and have really rushed to help and help war refugees in every possible way. It's important. I'd say we're all over this war, this war has to end, but we have to help people who are in trouble. We have also been in Estonia in the forties, then in a situation where our people fled from war and occupation and were helped. They came, two hands in their pockets, and in these societies they received them and helped them rebuild their lives. This is also, in some ways, what we can contribute ourselves to helping these poor Ukrainian people. Of course, most of them have said that they want to go back to Ukraine, but as long as they are here, they should be integrated into our society, children should be educated, and these people should also have a job if possible, precisely because they can also contribute to society, which very many of them want to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U133	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U134	Thank you. I'm almost embarrassed. I'm embarrassed here yesterday. I myself hoped that it would take a little longer than the beginning of the war and the arrival of the refugees before the left group in our hall would wake up and start talking about this story again, that the scale was full and that their Estonian people would lose everything and whatever. Yesterday, we started discussing a bill here, a draft law on foreigners and a law on granting international protection to aliens, and they started juggling, basically playing dumb, dragging. All in order to adopt this law as late as possible or to hold back the Riigikogu in fact in one part, which is also linked to this legislative amendment in order to better receive refugees. I've volunteered for Nine Two myself. To tell you the truth, I'd advise anyone who's turning a very hard heart here now: go through it for a second. The city of Tallinn is doing a very good job. Very good work is done by volunteers. Officials of the city of Tallinn are also doing very good work there, mupo and stuff. But the tragic part is the refugees who come here with nothing, with no joy in their eyes. And speaking against them here like that would be embarrassing for me. But I have one question too. I see that actually, when the kids come, they'll have one of the saddest parts of it to be summer, because right now they probably don't even understand what's happened. But summer is when the children in the old days, I imagine, also in Ukraine, came to visit Grandma's grandfather. Has the government thought about what to do with these children during the summer? Is it possible to arrange some camps, some kind of immersion or something so that these children at least have a good memory of Estonia and the first summer they came here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U135	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U136	Thank you. Kids. Indeed, there are many children. It really is one thing to continue education. It's three months till the end of the school year. Larger children can also study in distance learning according to the Ukrainian programme. It has been their wish that they can also graduate from Ukrainian school. But it's clear that it'll be summer, then it'll be school again, and then these kids will all have to be in school. For the summer, we have discussed the issue of language camps at government level. Indeed, since most of the children, as I said earlier, go to Estonian language or language immersion schools, language training camps or language immersion camps will take place in summer, where they will be able to make new friends as well as become clearer in the Estonian language, so that it will be easier in autumn. The point is, too, that it really is a little joy to bring these children. Our children would also be in these camps so that they could all adapt to each other. This is what we are planning, and in the supplementary budget package it is in a single proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U137	A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U138	Yeah, I gotta do it. This is my colleague Randpere again loyally rusted, I felt our line here. We have never, neither I nor we have stated that we should not help Ukrainian war refugees. It hasn't been a story at all, not even in my case. But I asked the Prime Minister, respectfully, something else I couldn't answer. It is about how society survives, not about not having to help them. The island was an example, but there are many places where it is discussed. We haven't even discussed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U139	Thank you. In my experience, procedural questions were, as a rule, very, very exceptional in Question Time. They've come somehow in this composition. The point of the procedural question has been to say something that really currently interferes with the work of a member of the Riigikogu. A procedural question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U140	Thank you. I wanted to help you, George, and say that what Ernits is actually doing isn't a procedural question. Cut it off. Stop me if I ask you a non-procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U141	Procedural question, Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U142	Thank you. On Monday, the Riigikogu simply discussed the issue of ending COVID's restrictions, and a great deal was the subject of protective masks, which the government has not yet considered reasonable to abandon. It's just that there was a lot of smart talk in this hall, and no one had any doubt about the purpose of these masks, so to speak, that they would help. But they help when they're used right. Then it was said that it was a drop infection that was released from the mouth as an aerosol, mostly when people were talking. But right now, Minister Sutil, if he sits and keeps quiet, he's wearing a mask, but when he gets up and talks, he takes the mask off. In this sense, it is not sensible behavior. Luckily, Mr. Laneman was away at the time. Mrs Everaus explained to us very carefully on Monday how the virus would spread. I just wanted to remind people who think it's reasonable to wear more masks that it makes sense to do it right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U143	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U144	Let's go to the next question, that's the seventh. It is presented by Alar Laneman, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is defence planning and defence industry. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U145	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Very honourable Prime Minister! First of all, let me say that you are unearnedly modest in your military competence. You've had to answer a lot of questions and questions here before us, and the answers will allow, I think, the Academy of the Defence Forces to read you out as an extraterrestrial soon. But now I'm going to the question. Estonia sometimes seems like America. There's a saying about America that America is doing the right thing after she's tried all the wrong things. The fact that we have come to further development and financing of national defence is, in some ways, a good example here. The first decision has been taken, the following will be discussed. I would like to thank you for this and wish you the strength to make good decisions. But these additional decisions are also saying that, in view of the future, we need to look at the situation that the National Defence Development Plan, which was approved in December and is intended for a 10-year document, has had to undergo major changes in such a short period of time. Something should be done. I would like to ask if you have thought about this, perhaps you have some thoughts as to whether the preliminary warning has been flawed, whether the analysis has been incomplete, whether the decisions have been ignored, or whether the military advice of the Commander of the Defence Forces has been poor. It seems with military advice that the images of the Ukrainian war will not work either. We must actually prepare for tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, including four and ten years of [after] things. That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U146	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U147	First of all, thank you for your good words. I guess I've also evolved by listening to you and making things clear to myself here. In college, by the way, I took military law as a subject, but it was a long, long time ago. Now I come to the National Defence Development Plan. Clearly, the world changed absolutely on 24 February. Different documents, basic documents, such as NATO or the European Union, a strategic compass, have still been based on the fact that we have a period of peace, but since 24 February the situation changed capitalically, where we are, the world changed and the international order changed. That is why the question is that we should also review all these basic documents, because the hope that we are living in a time of peace has unfortunately not been right. The decisions we have made to invest further in protection have also been based on this changed situation, or those that [we have] already taken before, when we knew that the situation was changing. The early warning system has been in place, and the early warning system has given us these identities. Since the summer, we have held practically weekly security meetings, just to be informed. We knew there was a great military exercise going on in Russia, Zapad. Eight times, when Russia has conducted such a lesson, at least three times in the past, now four times, they have actually attacked someone, be it Transnistria, Georgia or Georgia and Ukraine in exactly the same way. So, from this point of view, we need to look at this changed situation. It is clear that Russia has not concealed its ambitions in any way, and Putin is quite openly speaking about his next plans. That is why all such national defence development plans and strategic compasses must be reviewed in a changed political situation, in a changed security situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U148	A specific question, please, Alar Laneman!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U149	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. It's quite typical. Countries often forget that peace is actually an abnormal situation for the military. The army is meant to be chaos, unexpected. Maybe America, England and Israel are different in this sense. In fact, defense planning, schools, and analyses are to avoid surprises. After all, the question we have raised is that for a very long time, we have also tried to draw attention to these things, which are now gradually beginning to come to work. There are good signs. But the first task of national defence is to prevent war. If this first task is not fit for purpose, you must fight, but it is in any case a loss because it is going to be very expensive. For example, when we look at air protection, which has been discussed a lot, any air protection is still cheaper than rebuilding the country. In the example of Ukraine, we are talking about hundreds of billions. Perhaps it is necessary to try to change this thinking and to make sure that these plans are still realistic. People have an understanding. But this is the same structural issue I have for the defence industry. Where are our Switchblade's, loitering munition, Bayraktars, perhaps more suitable called Kalevipoeg's barn? After all, Estonia has contributed very much to the development of the defence industry. But in the same way, it has now proved to be somehow invisible. Is there any way you can comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U150	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U151	Yeah. Several subjects. I very much agree with you that the first task of national defence is actually to prevent war. Therefore, previous governments have made very wise decisions to join all kinds of organisations, including NATO. One of NATO's fundamental attitudes is the attitude of deterrence, or deterrence, precisely so that there is no war. For 70 years, there has been no war on NATO territory. It's been quite effective. The fact that we joined NATO has given us one important pillar in defence, in addition to our own defence capabilities, and this is NATO's collective defence. It's exactly that even though the school bully is right next to you, he doesn't bully the weak when these weaker ones have strong and great friends. If we have the United States or Great Britain on the same footing, this school bully knows that by picking a fight with us, he's picking on the big ones he might not be going to fight with. This has actually been a security guarantee. This disengagement attitude must, in this case, be converted into a protection attitude. What does that mean? This means that if we have a NATO air security mission, it must be an air defence mission. This additional readiness on the ground, too, by our allies, is important, because NATO's main fundamental article is Article 5 that an attack on one is an attack on everyone. I come to your question concerning the defence industry. Estonia really has a rather advanced defence industry, and it is drones that drive self-driving tools that we are strong in. If, at NATO level and also at European Union level, we have recently discussed precisely that we need to acquire certain capabilities together, because it is too expensive for one Member State individually, it covers, for example, a larger area or it is possible to protect a larger territory, then these things should be done together. This means that it actually has to be a great technology. Even if our opponents have an overweight in quantitative terms, we must have an advantage, qualitatively, or ultimate technology, the last word of the technology is what we should be able to hit [the opponents] with.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U152	Now two additional questions. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U153	It's a little awkward to ask right after Alar Laneman and two specialists before Leo Kunna. In fact, I also very highly and sincerely commend them for their knowledge in the field of war. As regards the question of Alar Laneman, that preparation for defence is important and whether we have succeeded or not, the fact that there has not been a war in Estonia shows that we have still succeeded in doing so. At the same time, yesterday, the book Putin People appeared in Estonian: how the KGB took back Russia and then took on the West. If you read this book, then it is not there either that what you read in the last few decades and it is clear to everyone just that Putin has prepared how the funds, the resources, have been created in order to exercise influence in the West in order to prepare for war. Exactly the same can be said of distant history. The Western countries were very surprised or pretended to be surprised when Hitler started the war. But all I should have done was read "Mein Kampf" and have had all the answers. What Hitler wanted to do, it was all in the book, and so he did. But humankind must have a quality not to believe what he sees. Now I have a question. You came from Narva, Ida-Viru County just yesterday or the day before yesterday. What's the situation there? What did you see? How does it feel? And the more precise question: does Narva need protection more than before, maybe Tapa is too far from Narva?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U154	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U155	Thank you. First of all, it's a very interesting coincidence that I'm just reading this "Putin's People" book, Catherine Belton. As a result of the situation, I can, of course, read very little of it, reading very slowly compared to normal. But really interesting reading. You said they were surprised and that humanity didn't believe. In my opinion, this is because people actually actually believe in the good and want to hope for the best. I too, having seen and heard the intelligence that Russia is planning to start a full-scale war against Ukraine, I also hoped that these plans were not really true or that someone had misread or interpreted something. But, unfortunately, it was true, and we are in this situation. Perhaps Russia should always expect the worst and be pleasantly surprised when it does not happen, not the other way around. Fortunately, I must say that we have, however, been adequate towards Russia and we have also highlighted these dangers with our European and NATO allies. The fact that we have not always been heard is true. But because of current events, at least a number of people have told me that they have been naive to Russia, I mean people outside of Estonia, and they should have listened to us better. Now to the question of Narva and Ida-Virumaa. Really, my government and I were at a court-martial in Narva and Ida-Virumaa. It is perhaps interesting that we can also see in the studies that there has also been a rise in defence in Ida-Virumaa. The point behind it is exactly that no one wants a war in their home. Estonia is also home to people who have different mother tongues, but it is still home and war is not recommended here. It is also positive that patriotism and, of course, concern about any provocation have indeed increased in connection with the will for defence. There are tensions between communities, but these tensions are not so great at the moment and should do everything to prevent them from growing up. Security we have in common here, regardless of our mother tongue, and this is what we need to take in such a way that our greatest risk at the moment when there is no military threat to us is, in fact, internal security, which is how we get along.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U156	A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U157	Good manager! I have this question: have we now designed Question Time for the presentation of a book? First, the publisher asks a question, introduces the fresh 'Putin People', and then the Prime Minister makes a statement that he has just read it. Is that part of this campaign?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U158	Thank you. I'm not quite sure what publishing company has issued it and who owns it. I don't have the final information, and I don't know it. No, in Question Time, the member of the Riigikogu asks and the member of the government answers. At the moment, we should ask about "Defence planning and the defence industry." A procedural question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U159	I want to help Peter Ernitsa, who's dying to talk about books. As far as I know, I may be wrong, I have not asked the Prime Minister this question, the Prime Minister reads the English version of this book. I was talking about the Estonian version of this book, which only appeared yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U160	I understand it went down now so... I remember yesterday, after all, the members of the Riigikogu also came to us and were invited to purchase this book, in my opinion. The Reform Party Group was invited, Mr Ernits, to acquire it. Let's keep going. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I agree with Mr Alar that life has forced you and will inevitably force you to deal with national defence issues more and more. That's right. But, of course, you have enough competence in the party yourself. The heart of General Laaneots has always been that the military defence forces are too small. Now it's going to be increased by at least 12,000. John, a good colleague, is no longer among us, but surely the old general is pleased that we will be able to make it back to where we were, that the wartime defence forces will increase again by 40,000 or even a little bit, which is very good. But now the current situation versus a slightly more distant future. Five tactical battalion groups from the Pihkva division now went, two from the Kamenka Brigade, two from the Vladimirski Lager brigade, and they have all suffered quite a lot of losses. Some of Finland's senior military members appreciate that it will take up to three years for them to regain their ability, both in technology and in human terms. On the one hand, we don't know what's coming, of course, but we have to look at what might happen tomorrow and what might happen in three or four years. That is why it is very right for us to ask for mid-earth air control or long-range air control from our allies, but we should not, however, leave it out of the way. The question is, how would it be better to do it? Should we not deal equally with what we can expect tomorrow, as well as what we can expect in a three or four year perspective, so that we can reach the level of credible deterrence, so that this problem does not arise, like the Ukrainians, that Putin and the Russian General Staff simply did not believe that Ukraine had the will and the ability to fight?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U162	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U163	Thank you. First of all, I don't know if I'm in any kind of scandal now, okay? But really, I read the English book, it was given to me in December at Christmas. Indeed, I am not a member of the Riigikogu, so I do not receive any such invitations. But the book is still good, I'm not backing down from it. I agree, as I said earlier, that strengthening the Defence Forces and strengthening the Defence Union are also an important element in the defence capabilities package. Again, I'm gonna go over it again. As far as anti-aircraft is concerned, I agree with you that we also need to take steps towards anti-aircraft. But we always have a limited amount of money, and when we take steps towards the future, we must consider that we must take these steps today too. Today we can focus on this when we talk about the anti-aircraft that we get here from our allies. It's an important element of our defense. That doesn't mean we don't have to take these steps in the future to get anti-aircraft here, but we just have a limited amount of money, as I said before. Of course, we can take out a loan, and we will take out a loan to cover their needs, but in the end, it will all be paid by the taxpayer. We need to make urgent decisions precisely in relation to our situation now, so that we can respond precisely to the risks that we are currently facing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U164	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U165	Good fellows! Honourable members of the government! Now, the situation is that the pre-registered topics are over. I ask the member of the Riigikogu to first tell who he is asking the question to and then ask the question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U166	Thank you. My question is to the Prime Minister. Good chairman of the sitting! Good Prime Minister! On 14 March, you generously announced on social media how the government would abandon the COVID passport on 15 March and the closure limit at 23 o'clock. You did not formulate it in such a way that the government would have repealed or lifted these restrictions, but you simply said that the government would abandon them. Let me remind you that it is precisely your government that has turned risk analysis into a tool to free people from work on the pretext that a person must have been vaccinated, otherwise his job will be at risk. Although the requirement for a COVID passport has now been abolished, many employers continue to put pressure on people to vaccinate and fire people from work based on risk analysis. There are still job offers on the website of the state institution, the unemployment fund, where one of the requirements is to have a COVID passport, i.e. vaccination. For this reason, the same institution threatens to release its employees [from work] if a person does not vaccinate, or maybe is threatened by forcing them to vaccinate. I now have the question: does the waiver of the COVID passport also apply to employers, including the authorities, and they are obliged to re-do their risk analysis accordingly, and, in the absence of the COVID passport, is it right to pressure people to vaccinate, threatening to deprive them of their jobs? So what exactly does this quitting the COVID passport mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U167	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U168	Thank you. First of all, I'm really curious that when you left here so dramatically last time, you said you wouldn't ask me any more questions, because you won't get any answers from me, which made you change your mind. You're back, you're asking me again. In the meantime, did I give any meaningful answers that gave you hope that you would ask again? But I'm glad it is, and you're really back here. As far as undertakings are concerned, companies have a duty to carry out risk analysis. It has never been a government guideline or decision, everyone can carry out a risk analysis. The risk analysis tells us what risks there are at the workplace, what protection should therefore be given, whether it must be a requirement for vaccination, a requirement for masking, a requirement for isolation, whatever. Employers can do that. Just as the government did not write it before for entrepreneurs, it does not write it now. The type of requirements that companies submit to their employees is very specific and based on how the work is organised and what requirements are in one job or another. Whether these are educational requirements, be they some other requirements or risk analysis requirements concerning the safety of the working environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U169	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Procedural question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U170	Thank you. I would ask the President to remind the Prime Minister that there are still no substantive answers. It's a mess, whether or not the evidence is valid. It cannot be in parallel in one country that the government is, as if, repealing and, at the same time, the employer can decide independently that I am now imposing the opposite rule against the government. Please point out to the members of the government that they should also answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U171	Thank you. The questioners ask and the respondents answer, of course. That's your procedural remark the Prime Minister heard. Peter Ernits, please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U172	Good Chairman! Sire! My question is this. 9th of May approaching. The year before last, when the Bronze Soldier was again celebrated for victory over Nazi Germany, the March of the Immortal Polgu was canceled. But now I'm reading from the P.P.A. data bank that permission has been given and Immortal Polk will march on 9 May down Odra Street to the Defence Forces Cemetery. Probably many also have Georgi tapes in their chest and maybe Z in their hair or elsewhere. Good Prime Minister! Has the government discussed what to do this year with the march of the Immortal Polgu, considering that for the vast majority of people who go there [the last few], this is important? Given the current situation, is this all happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U173	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U174	Thank you. Firstly, it is a public meeting which does not need authorisation in any way, but yes, it is registered. But now the police have a chance to decide whether he's refusing it with his motion, because we have a way that you just let me know that I'm going to do this, and the police can prohibit it. Does the police have reason to take this step, given the circumstances? I admit that we have not had this debate at government level, in the government office, for the reason that it has not been known. But the tensions associated with 9 May, of course, we are following very closely and wondering what to do in the end. By the way, you said two years ago the event was canceled. Then it was canceled because there was an emergency and all gatherings were forbidden, including gatherings against any restrictions or whatever. So all the gatherings were banned, it was your excellent decision to ban absolutely everything. But there's no such rule right now. At the moment, the public meeting has to be registered and reported. That's what's been done. So we will certainly be discussing all the problems relating to 9 May and how to approach this situation. We're at the end of March, and there's still time. But for my part, I also suggest that we do not create any additional hostility or further problems in this respect. Yes, May 9 is a very different meaning for the Russian-speaking population and the Estonian-speaking population. In my opinion, Ilmar Raag has explained this very well in one of his essays, where he says that if, on 10 May, Stalin had told everyone that you were free to go to an independent country and what you wanted, we would also celebrate 9 May as the end of the war. But since we still began suffering, our people were suffering very much, we cannot celebrate it this way. We have also given this [day] a new meaning in the form of the European Day. I am very pleased that at least the events of the European Day in Tallinn are large and with [they are going to] families, there are concerts and very interesting orientation is, for example, between embassies. But in Ida-Virumaa, this situation is very different. So we need to make sure that we do not create further tensions in society that are not needed in this very fragile situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U175	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this issue. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U176	Thank you. My question is to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. In this Chamber on Monday, we discussed the fact that there were no restrictions anymore, but it still seemed that for some people there was a major problem with one limit ♪ it is masking in public places. I mean, watching all this discussion and fighting, okay, on the one hand, we don't know if the masks are helping or how much they're helping. Now, if I wear a mask like I do in public places, and later it turns out it didn't help too much, I'm sorry that you see me wearing a mask for a year, damn it. But those people who don't wear masks have to think later: maybe I killed someone's grandmother by not wearing a mask. Then I think it's interesting which choice is easier. I think my choice is easier. But how do you feel about this debate society and, in my opinion, the concerns expressed in Estonia, where there have been very few restrictions anyway because of this COVID, compared to other countries? Even this little restriction, the suggestion of wearing a mask in public places, makes you feel something else, or they try to pull a fight out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U177	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U178	Thank you. Indeed, there have been very gentle restrictions or control measures in Estonia throughout the whole period of the COVID [epidemic]. We have kept, tried to keep society as open as possible so that children can go to school so that people can engage in their activities. Today, we really have a duty to wear masks in public indoors and public transport. It's not in many places. We have called on the Scientific Advisory Board to come up with their proposals, when we can also waive the obligation to wear masks. We are planning this debate next Tuesday. Now to the other side of your question. I myself believe that most people in Estonia have behaved very responsibly, very caring for other people, and because of this they have saved the lives of quite a few people without even knowing, I believe. We've been keeping away from [one], we've been keeping our distance, we've washed our hands, we've been using decoys, we've been wearing masks in situations where we've been very close to other people, we've also been sticking to control measures, we've also been vaccinating, and we've made the necessary doses of effectiveness, even so that people don't get into the hospital and as a result, there's no great pressure on the hospital network. So I think most people might be proud that they've saved someone's life without their knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U179	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Dear colleagues, thank you for your questions. Dear members of the government, thank you for your answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U180	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 9th working week session of the VII plenary session on Wednesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U181	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I will hand over a draft from the Environmental Investment Centre to recall a member of the Council and to appoint a new member. At the request of the Centre Party Group [we propose] to recall Martin Repinski and appoint a member of the Riigikogu Tõnis Mölder as a member of the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U182	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U183	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The content of the inquiry concerns individual quotas on Lake Peipsi. So far, Olympic fishing has benefited only intermediaries and the economy of a neighbouring country and leaves our own fishermen in an unequal competitive situation. This story has a long history. Some of the people involved already have a gray beard, which lasts 11 years. This target group, fishermen, has made a series of turns, has had many different meetings. Seven fisheries-related organisations, plus four Peipsi-side municipalities, are responsible for these appeals. The various committees have been approached, the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Rural Affairs have been addressed. The last appeal was made to the Prime Minister a few days ago. It is necessary to amend the Fisheries Act. I read that after the first reading, which took place on 11 February 2020, [have been submitted] nine conversions. At the moment, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs have reached, to my knowledge, a consensus that [to be transferred] to reference quotas, but the proposal to amend the Fisheries Act is still somewhere, I don't know where. That is why we are making an inquiry to the Minister for the Environment to find out where this matter has been held, what is the reason for it and when it could reach the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U184	I don't see any more calls. The further processing of one draft and one inquiry will be examined by the Management Board in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Mr. Kruusimäe, do you have a procedural question before we have checked the presence?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U185	Yeah, I just had... The previous form was Question Time, and we all received extremely important information. I just want to talk about cooperation between the Riigikogu and the government, information. It's always worth knowing. This is where we learned, for example, that wearing masks is voluntary, but you will not be allowed in public transport and shopping centres unless you have a mask. If this knowledge is that it is voluntary...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U186	Mr. Kruusimäe, this is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U187	It is. But to us, the ambassadors have not come...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U188	No, it's not a procedural question. We have the Riigikogu here, the Riigikogu. This is not a procedural question for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U189	...but we... didn't contain it, you didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U190	Thank you! Now we're going to the presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U191	64 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. We have a little detail on the agenda. As you remember, yesterday the second reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens remained in progress. That is why we need to move forward with this draft today as the first point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U192	I ask the remote control Tõnis Möldri to answer the questions. But first, Mr Mölder, I am still waiting, because Mr Kruusimäe still has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U193	Yeah, it's procedural. Yesterday we wanted to know why our Minister of Defence's planned presentation of the implementation of the strategy "Estonia 2035" has been left to the end of [day], and we received a reply that the Bureau will meet after the meeting. After yesterday's session, has the Riigikogu Board gathered and decided to bring this important security policy and debate closer? The chair replied to us in such a way that the Bureau would meet after the meeting. My question is, did the Bureau meet, and did the Bureau consider that such an important item would need to be placed elsewhere, in a better place, or would we have it in the next week?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U194	The large chamber of the Riigikogu approved the agenda, and the management board follows from it. We have all approved this agenda together on Monday, and we will work on it. Now, Mr. Mölder, I beg you for your chair. I'll remind you how we didn't have any questions last night. The question remains with Kalle Grünthal and Merry Aart. The negotiations were registered by Heljo Pikhof, Jaak Valge, Aivar Kokk, Kalle Grünthal and Paul Puustusmaa, in this order. So please, Mr. Mölder, you are welcome to the chair and ask Kalle Grünthal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Yesterday it became clear that this law has been dealt with in violation of the norm rules of the drafts established by the Riigikogu. For example, this explanation lacks a demographic impact assessment, although the social [impact] is addressed, further lacks an impact assessment on the living environment and the natural environment, as well as on regional development. So, in principle, no possible solutions have been described, no positive or negative effects actually foreseen by the norm regulation. My question is that you yourself voted in favour of this bill. How is it possible that you, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, are subject to such breaches of the technical rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U196	Thank you. It seems to me that this bill has a very strong effect. I see that this has had a very strong impact on you in the process of handling this draft. However, as far as the analysis of good practice and impact of drafting is concerned, I would continue to say that, as the drafting and defender of this draft at first reading in a large Chamber, where it is precisely these great effects that should have been introduced, it has not been I, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but still your good party partner, the Minister of the Interior at the time. So I guess we'll have to ask him where these tests and analyses are. However, I admit that the studies and analyses could also have been about the amendments, and they were actually presented to us in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U197	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U198	Thank you. Good waitress! Well, it's kind of hard to ask today, but yesterday I wanted to ask you that sometimes we may be overemphasising these IT specialists a little bit. In certain sectors, it is precisely those who do simpler work that are needed. We already have quite a few hints that our own entrepreneurs are replacing the workforce with cheaper ones, as has the unemployment fund, for example. True, not all of them, but still. I would like to ask this question: is there any place in this bill where companies are also supervised? Just as, for example, in this Accessibility Act, there was a long and thorough explanation of how you can go to a company and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U199	Thank you. First of all, which I think is very important, and indeed, which I admitted yesterday, that this bill must certainly not become a draft with which we are going to favour cheap labour and that there will be a situation where our own local residents will lose jobs with good or medium pay and we will replace them with cheap labour. What I think is important is that, as I said, a larger number of IT solutions are being developed through this draft, precisely to improve this monitoring. Our office is being manned by nearly 16 people who can supervise both migration and working conditions. And the third, which is important, is that different Supreme Court rulings have shown that it is very difficult for entrepreneurs to be strongly held accountable. There are certain loopholes in the law, but with this procedure we will patch up these gaps and then it will be possible for businesses to make injunctions that should make any law-abiding trader seriously think about whether or not to break the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U200	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U201	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I commend you for noticing yesterday that [the bill] was a mistake, and you did not hide your head like an ostrich. So in one paragraph, "international relations" was a very complex thing to interpret. But I understand from the chairman of the sitting sitting in front of us that once the Riigikogu Board has approved the working week, there are no errors, no errors, they will not be reviewed. Question: when you, as the Commission rapporteur, noticed that there was a mistake in [the draft], was there at least a debate in your group on how to improve this situation that is damaging to international relations? Or did you have the majority's opinion that if the Riigikogu Board has already approved the agenda, mistakes are excluded?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U202	Thank you. Well, I really have to admit that, I think, in writing this law, specifically on this point [for] it wasn't that idea, and here we have to admit that really, it isn't good writing and we haven't thought that way. I think that, in fact, the statements made by the Riigikogu that have been adopted here in connection with the conflict of war in recent weeks have shown that, in fact, there is a very clear and high degree of unity on this issue in this Chamber. Now, what are our chances of improving this bill? First of all, in our group, we have not discussed this. However, I have consulted with the staff serving the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, indeed, one possible solution here is to make a very clear change between second and third readings in the Commission and to say that this is a linguistic and technical change, while at the same time leaving the content of the specific point of the draft unchanged, so that it does not offend people's rights or the obligations that Parliament itself has wished to give in previous proceedings. So these linguistic and technical clarifications can be made. There is now a debate on whether this is a linguistic clarification. I think it is because we all agree in this Chamber that we want to help those people who have arrived after 24 February as war refugees and to offer them the safest possible presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U203	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U204	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You probably have God's complex because God does not have time, but God has made day and night for man to understand that time exists for him. Now you're saying here that I've developed the bill that you're presenting right now. You have turned this draft, which I have drawn up, based on the analyses that have been carried out at that time, on your head and justify it with some editorial changes. Please do not be the clone of the Reform Party, the clone of Kaja Kallas, who, yesterday at the First Studio, also claimed that this is the draft that the EKRE developed. EKRE has developed a bill that you've been working on. Do you understand that? Therefore, are you ready for the Commission to withdraw it because it is not this draft? If you look out the window, the situation has changed with a year and a little more completely and therefore the reading of this draft should be interrupted. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U205	Thank you. First of all, really, I have to make a little bit of a clarification: even if I wanted to, it's really hard to find a resemblance between me and Kaja Kallas, even if I turn around a little bit. Now it's different. Would the Commission be prepared to withdraw this draft? It is not possible for the Commission to withdraw this draft. The draft can only be withdrawn by the originator. The Commission can or cannot deal with this draft; the Commission can take different decisions, for example, whether or not to terminate the second reading. As far as I am concerned, the Commission's decision, both in the same way and in the opposite way, was that the second reading would be closed and, if the second reading was also completed in the large Chamber, that the third reading would be carried forward as early as April.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U206	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U207	Honourable Tõnis! I asked questions with a reference to the lack of analysis in this draft. For example, I repeat over: there is no demographic impact analysis, no analysis of the living environment, no analysis of the natural environment and no analysis of regional development. I asked why you agreed to send such a draft against the so-called Riigikogu norm technical rule to this large hall. I would like to stress that if there are rules to be complied with elsewhere in society, for example, in traffic, they must be complied with. And it is not correct that we bring here what was said yesterday, the failure of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and that we are going to process it. We need to set an example. In principle, good Tõnis, I would suggest that you, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, take it back or interrupt its [second] reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U208	Thank you. I'm still coming back to that. Firstly, the question of why I voted in favour of this draft in committee. Once again, I think it's a good bill. I am not saying that he is a very good draft as a whole, there are certainly bottlenecks here, which I myself referred to in the Commission's proceedings, but I think that, as a whole, there are very many solutions to the Estonian economy and the labour market and these bottlenecks. Now, whether I can withdraw this draft from the agenda. In this sense, it is difficult for me, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to remain alone here in either a minority or a majority, depending on which side I would be on in this matter. But what all the political groups can certainly do is propose that the second reading be interrupted, and if this interruption comes to the vote in the big Chamber, then I, as a Member of Parliament, have the opportunity to show my mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U209	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U210	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, If you now assess the situation that was at the time of the preparation of this draft, at the time when it was submitted to the procedure, and the situation that we now have in Estonia, where we have an amount of 25000 people added to the labour market and practically all the doors have been opened for minimum wage jobs, then it is obvious that this draft no longer fits in the context of this moment, which is why it is necessary to seriously consider stopping reading this draft [second]. My question is: as Chairman of your committee and as representative of your group, would you be prepared to support the withdrawal of [second] reading of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U211	Thank you. First of all, as far as I know, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is still Toomas Kivimägi. I am simply here as a representative of the Commission. Once again, I think that, through this debate, we will be able to hold further discussions on whether or not this draft should be interrupted. In the Commission, I really supported reading this draft [the other]. Now, coming back to your substantive question, yes, in that sense you are right, and I also need to correct perhaps one of the bottlenecks where I was wrong myself yesterday. I agree that all war refugees who come to Estonia will enjoy the same working conditions and benefits as the Estonians who are here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U212	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U213	Thank you. I think it is only right for me to stop reading this draft [second], because there are so many shortcomings here, which we highlighted here yesterday in the way of questions and answers, especially as regards the issue of when the war began. The fact that it has been written in that there has been no war in Ukraine before 2022 and, more importantly, that it can be seen as a civil war in Ukraine under this bill is an incredible bypass, which we must certainly correct and cannot be done in any other way than by interrupting. My question, however, concerns the mutation in the draft, which concerns growth companies. Why such a definition? So how many of these growing companies are supposed to be, to whom does it extend? Why such a definition and how many could there be?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U214	First of all, once again, as regards this issue which was discovered yesterday or, rather, raised yesterday, here I agree with you: it has not succeeded in the wording. And as I said, one option is to solve it so that we do linguistic proofreading between second and third reading. The second option is to stop reading the draft [second] and then propose amendments. Once again, here we believe in the same way as you, and I think Parliament's votes have shown this. Now, coming to the topic of growth companies, we consider them start-ups that have been active in Estonia for at least 10 years. We actually know that there are start-ups in Estonia who have registered here and used this ten-year period, namely the so-called unicorns, which are ten rounds of success stories in Estonia. Now the question is what we do with these companies after 10 years. We can see that, in terms of growth, their potential is still enormous. A huge amount of jobs could be created in Estonia. Now the question is whether we are extending their rights or whether we are telling them: "Thank you! The Estonian state does not want you, go move your headquarters somewhere else. " Today we actually see that some such start-ups have already moved their headquarters abroad and I think that this is not a good direction. If we still want the Estonian economy to grow, so that more jobs can come to Estonia, then it is precisely to encourage more of these companies to be created here. I am saying that I do not have this exact number, but it certainly concerns companies such as Wise, Bolt, perhaps another company that is just entering that stage of growth. In fact, this would mean that about 12,000 jobs would be added to Estonia and a very large amount of tax revenues would be added to the Treasury. It is estimated that this amount could be in the order of 160 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U215	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, What we had here yesterday is still not a linguistic, but a very serious substantive mistake, which is inside this draft, and it has very serious foreign policy effects, they also go to national defence. These effects have been completely disregarded. We have come here from the Ukrainian people, to whom it gives a very strange signal. By leaving this wording, you want to force the large Chamber to confirm the behaviour of those members of the Central Party Group at the first vote when we condemned this aggression. So I have a feeling that by continuing to deal with this with the Government of the Republic, you will give a very strong signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U217	Thank you. Once again, I agree with you 101%: the wording that is in this draft must be changed. Now the question is whether we basically want to help those people who have arrived in Estonia after 24 February as a refugee of war, or whether we do not want to help them. I believe that this bill creates precisely the possibility that we can help these people better and more quickly by extending their various social benefits. This is primarily the purpose of this definition.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U218	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U219	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, How do you explain what happened in this hall yesterday and today? Why is that? If the war refugees, so that they can start working, need to make changes to the law, that would be where to seek political consensus, wouldn't it? Why hasn't it been done? And why is this focus so dissipated that we're discussing the same subject for the second day and probably more hours? Where do you think this solution is?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U220	Thank you. I guess the solution is in the debate in this big hall, and I don't know where else to look for these solutions. Why has this happened? I think, once again, that the question [is not] that the great hall in any way would have changed its mind about the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, chose no other sides here, that has not happened. This bill does not deal with this either. There have been technical problems, linguistic failure, and I have said that we will definitely change it between second and third readings. There are just a lot of important labour market points in this draft, which, depending on the weather view, are not suitable for one party depending on the political stance. I guess this is where we can come up with a consensus. Once again, as I said yesterday, the initiator of this draft is one government, in the meantime the government has changed, there have been some ideas and improvements, but 70% of the original text of this draft has remained the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U221	Good waitress! No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U222	Great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U223	Let's open the negotiations. The thing about the negotiations is, before I give word to Jaak White, I still have to ask the procedure. Since heljo Pikhof was the first to register, but I don't see him in the hall right now, Heljo Pikhof's call ring is closing now, and Jaak Valge is welcome to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U224	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear listeners, The immaturity of this draft is, in fact, characterised by the gross political error already contained in it, but this error can easily be corrected. However, this bill is also flawed in its substance. I don't want to dramatize here either, but this time I'd say it's against the point of the Constitution. And that mistake can't be fixed that easily. I'll try to justify it. You see, in recent years, we have seen a total of 4 000 to 5 000 more people coming from the Eastern Slavic cultural space, as well as from Africa and Asia, than these people have left. So the migration balance for these people is going to be somewhere in the plus 4,000 to 5,000. We do not yet have the data available for 2021, but according to the initial reports they have issued, it seems that these figures may be even higher. And this means that, if we continue in the same way, in 10 years' time, we would have 40,000 50,000 new people who should be integrated into Estonia in a situation where we already have an exceptionally large share of the population of foreign origin and so perhaps a huge problem with national language skills and social cohesion. The Prime Minister has said that our migration policy has been conservative and we have had few people from other countries. You can see that, you can look it up in the protocol, that's what he really said. But the figures speak a completely different language. In fact, the order of magnitude of [the people] that we have come here in recent years is of the same magnitude as that of the eighties, and I would remind you that at that time it was called mass immigration for a reason. In addition, some 15,000 so-called short-term workers are registered, some of whom are definitely planning to stay in Estonia, and they treat it as trampoline to stay in Estonia. In this regard, it is important to see that a working - age immigrant does not remain working - age for the rest of his life. In fact, he has such a quality that he will eventually grow old and will have to be paid a pension. Estonia's current pension costs are high precisely because our own immigration was very high. In fact, in the eastern Slavic countries, the birth rate is lower than in Estonia, and this pattern of birth rate behaviour has been brought here from the eastern Slavic countries and will continue to be brought along. The presenter of the bill kept saying that every year we have 10,000 people leaving the labour market, which may be the case, but encouraging immigration creates a situation where, in the future, when these people leave the labour market, there are even fewer substitutes for them, because they have had a low birth rate. Thus, the promotion of immigration is at the expense of our future. But I will also say that there is no need to be a special prophet, maybe a simple historian to say that problems arise earlier, because our economy is now in overheating because of the reprinting of money, and if there is a crisis, and it comes inevitably, then late immigrants, then other immigrants, will be the first unemployed, and so it will be irresponsible for us and for them to bring immigrants out here. Now, our Aliens Act contains a total of 18 exceptions, which is why our immigration gates are relatively wide open to the workforce. However, this draft creates another exception, the 19th, in the form of a so-called "growth company" where workers can be taken with an average salary of 0.8. Next, short-term workers with a one-year term will be allowed to stay with us for another two years on the basis of a residence permit. It basically means perpetuation. The salary requirement of an immigrant top specialist is reduced to 1.5 Estonian average [salary]. I do not know what kind of top specialist this is, whose salary is only 1.5 Estonian averages. The short-term Ukrainian workers, most of whom are men, will also be given a message, and this message is that do not go to defend their country, and their pay claim will also be reduced to 0.8 [on average pay]. Defetism will then also be encouraged, as new Ukrainian military judges will be able to come to us on the same basis. At the same time, according to the unemployment fund, we have 45,000 unemployed, but there are 6,000 job vacancies. We have some tens of thousands of people of working age working abroad, mainly in Finland. Some of them would return to Estonia if our wages increased faster. Now, calculate with me. Our productivity is 76% of the euro area average. With this productivity, or productivity, we are also lagging behind the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Poland and Lithuania, for example. We have 650,000 people at work. If our productivity were to rise to an average level in the euro area, I say, to an average level, not a high level, it would be as if we had 205,000 new workers. This direction, together with the occupation of older people, should really be encouraged. As stated by Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas in 2014, the introduction of foreign labour is not the solution. I quote: "To increase the productivity of our own people, and thus to pay them higher wages, and to involve our own people more, there is still potential here. " ♪ Taavi in the garment. True, the use of cheap foreign labour is hampering productivity gains, as there is no doubt about technological progress, and also hampers changes in the economic structure, inhibits economic growth, slows the return of our people from Finland or even more, pushing our people out. By the way, in 2020 our migration trend turned to data from Statistics Estonia, at least, and Estonians migrated more than they returned. In this situation, the EKRE has, of course, been absolutely firm in the view that immigration must be restricted. But this scheme is the opposite. The draft of the Constitutional Commission was proposed with the votes of the government union, but it is not that short-term workers with a year's work permit will be allowed to stay in Estonia for a longer period, their salary requirement will be reduced to 0.8 for the average [salary] in Estonia and a number of other facilitations will be made. Now, even before the war in Ukraine, an unbridled demagogic campaign was launched to promote immigration, and now it wants to make these changes despite the fact that Ukrainian refugees are completely changing the situation in our labour market. Under the temporary protection mechanism, refugees are immediately granted a residence permit and are entitled to receive services and to work on an equal footing with permanent residents, i.e. no longer have any average wage requirement, only a minimum wage should be paid. Now, the waitress said she doesn't think we're gonna be in the minority.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U225	Mr. White, it's been 30 seconds!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U226	Thank you. But analysis isn't a religious matter, and the projection of numbers shows something else. This bill is totally unacceptable to the EKRE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U227	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U228	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by saying that it is very sad that there are no people in the Chamber who actually support this bill. I honestly admit I'm ashamed. I am ashamed of all those who have prepared this bill. One thing is that when we listened to the answers yesterday and today, I have a feeling that Members of the Commission have been lied to. Let us start with this draft because it is written in the draft that the war between Russia and Ukraine began on 24 February this year. We all know that the occupation and annexation of Crimea started already in February 2014. Whether it was February 20 or February 26, but not whether it was that year or [8] years ago, will be debated. This is the only reason why this draft [second reading] should be interrupted today. But let's keep going. They say this bill is made for war refugees. I would like to ask honestly if anyone in this Chamber has read a line from this bill that talks about the refugee of war and supporting them. All war refugees, when they have come to Estonia, will be given equal conditions with Estonian citizens. In other words, I, as an employer, can also pay them a minimum wage. There's no 0.8 here that says I should pay more. First lie. Next lie: we support the Ukrainians. Is it because a Ukrainian with a short-term work permit came to Estonia earlier that the average salary in Estonia had to be paid, but now we are going to pay 0.8 [average salary]? Is that support? Third: This will not result in an increase in external labour [share] in Estonia. Another lie. Today, there are 28000 foreign workers in Estonia, of which 19000 foreign people with short-term work permits. In addition, 9,000 foreigners who have been granted a long-term residence permit for the purpose of working live here. It is extended from one year to three years. Maybe we can talk about this 19,000. If there are three years instead of three, you could multiply it by three, or nearly 60,000 foreign workers could come here. Of these, three quarters are now Ukrainians who are largely employed in the construction sector. And we radiantly support the Ukrainians by allowing us to pay them less than the labour force in Estonia. What does that mean? Have you heard what the head of the unemployment fund has said in recent days? The Unemployment Insurance Fund predicts that at least 13000 jobs will be lost in Estonia due to the war, which means that there will be a job shortage in the labour market. And now we're creating a situation where I, as an employer, could employ people cheaper. Is that the goal? On Monday, we listened to the speech of the Head of the Ukrainian Parliament in this Chamber. We applauded and promised support, but actually with this bill, we're gonna put a hat on the Ukrainians. And then they come to tell us that this is a Ukrainian bill of support. This is a complete lie! And this 0.8 is for Ukrainians only, not for workers from other third countries. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U229	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U230	The question is that we are not only talking about helping the Ukrainians, but we are giving the opportunity to bring in three times more workers from third countries. Maybe Wolt and Bolt and everyone need more labour, but let's be honest about who, or for which, is the cause of a situation in a war situation where an entirely unlimited amount of migrant labour can come to Estonia at some point. At the same time, we know that we ourselves have a problem. It is certainly important for us to help Ukrainian war refugees in particular. This is our task today, and with it, the people of Estonia must not be forgotten. When I asked coalition politicians a lot last night, they didn't know anything about it. The Commission waitress on the floor also came and apologized this morning and said that she really did not know that war refugees had the same conditions as we do. He was sure it was 0.8 for them. Why was this 0.8 made? And then we'll talk about the next one. Why, if we have agreed that, at two Estonian average wages, it is possible to bring labour and, in this connection, to speak clearly about creating more high-paid jobs, now we are bringing this [border] to 1.5 Estonian average wages? Yesterday they tried to make it clear that the introduction of cheap labour into Estonia creates high-paid jobs. As an economic person and an entrepreneur, I dare say to you that low-cost workers do not create high-paid jobs. On the contrary, this leads to high-paid jobs, because if it is possible to pay less work costs, the entrepreneur will not start thinking about investing in technology to save on wage costs, because rapid wage growth is one of several other reasons why entrepreneurs invest in technology. Another important reason is that we always have a leading position on the world market, just as the timber sector is in Estonia, for example. I sincerely ask coalition politicians once to look back into this bill. And if today's coalition really thinks that the war in Ukraine started on 24 February this year, then it should be considered whether it is justified to sit in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U231	There should have been a remote control on this place yesterday, Kalle Grünthal or Paul Puustusmaa, but I can't see either of these halls. Then next Urmas Reitelmann, please! Yeah, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U232	Honourable speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! In a few months, the Kallas government managed to turn Estonia into an embarrassing country. In all other areas, the government has been outstandingly successful in continuing this line. The government led by the Reform Party has once again revealed its anti-Estonian and cynical face. A bill initiated by the previous government was presented before the Riigikogu with the aim of curbing immigration from third countries, which served the interests of the state and the nation. Instead of restraining, the 180-degree billboard has been turned by a cluster block promoting immigration. Mr Kallas tried yesterday to claim that it was the implementation of the plans of the previous government that had been put into effect today's government's small impurities. The only truth in his claim was that Mart Helme was the Minister of the Interior at the time. It is cynical to exploit the Ukrainian war in connection with this law. It is disgusting to claim that the reduction of the average wage coefficient to 0,8 serves the employment interests of Ukrainian refugees. It does not add the slightest amount of employment opportunities to those who have been offered for war, but the aim of the amendment is to reduce the requirement for average wages as a whole, to reduce labour costs for schemers and by doing so to replace Estonians in the labour market with low-paid migrant workers. The government would really like to promote the employment of refugees, for example, it would be sufficient to opt out of a fixed-term social tax if they were hired. The first news of the greed of fellow countrymen who exchange their old Ukrainian slaves for new and cheaper ones has even been published in the mainstream media. The cynical exploitation of human misery and despair is disgusting, unfortunately not criminal. It seems that the business interests of such lousy characters are represented by the Reform Party par excellence. Like Putin and Lavrov, the figures of the Reform Party tell us in the choir that lowering the pay requirements of specialists promotes the economy. In the case of specialists, gold launderers and corrupters, they also pay 10 or 20 times the average wage, and the government must lay down any rules. The so-called specialists of the Reform Party, however, are mainly transporting junk food. This bill is a hunchback on several sides. The calling of the Russian-Ukrainian war into conflict clearly speaks of the disgustingness of the phraser, but not only. Clearly, the ministries and the officials of the State Chancellery have not bothered to read the documents or, more likely, have not understood them. Worst of all, the same goes for the members of today's government. It is particularly important for you, PortoRollo, to embezzle hogs in the law, legalise your previous offences, muzzle society through the back door, and create dictatorship like a thief. The second hunchback side of this draft is the lack of any impact analysis. What happens to Estonian workers when the market is flooded with cheap labour? What are the effects of this on the migration of Estonians, the birth rate, average wages, innovation, the duration of the nation state or even the preservation of national statehood? Where are the scenarios for the future? As a result of the failing decisions of the Reform Party, the balance of the previous crisis was the departure of 100000 Estonians from the country. If we replace the workers today, our people will once again have no choice but to vote with their feet. Whether there's 100,000 or 200,000 going this time, we don't know right now, but we know they're going, they're going. PortoRollo's corrupts are approaching lawmaking from the wrong side. If the ultimate goal is to abandon the idea of the Estonian Constitution, to abolish the nation state and to replace the nation, the amendment of the Constitution must begin. It is fair to say what a long-term plan is and to ask for a public mandate in the elections. Today, we see a sudden war in Europe playing cards for the government to achieve its vile goals. It was the government's fault to report honestly that the country had the capacity to assist 10,000 war refugees. We see today how we are no longer able to cope with the already twofold increase in the number of refugees. The buses sent by refugee aid and Mondo's people from human misery bring more people every day. Even today, it is clear to the most incomprehensible people that we have no refugees left to put, they simply cannot fit. There is probably not a single country in Europe that has not analysed its capacity to receive refugees and has also mentioned the limit numbers. Estonia is unique again. The possibility of an outbreak of war in our region is more real than ever. The rhetorical and footsteps of Germany and France are the first signs that European unity lasted only a few weeks, and the real politician saves Putin on its own, which in turn increases the chance that once the historic occupation can get its war machine working properly, we may be the next victims. What, though, have been the steps of this unfortunate government so far? Picking up weapons from the Russians is not a good idea for the Ministry of the Interior. Stupid idea was to give them guns once. Today we must make it up to you, because our Estonian police and defence allies will be the first to be on the line of fire. May 9th is coming. The news tells us that the indecisive government will allow the immortal regiment to recoil on the streets of Tallinn instead of putting an end to this trall decisively and forever. Please act like a government! Do Estonian conscripts have to sneak around the corner in their private clothes again? And the anti-aircraft. It is amazing with what consistency the Reform Party has ravaged the defence capabilities of the country over the years and continues to do so completely unscrupulously today. Today, there are hundreds of millions of costs in connection with war. Ukraine's experience even cries out to us that without mid-earth air control we are defenceless and bare-handed. Our armored vans and some self-propelled howitzers are just gonna be blown to pieces. Mariupol is a clear example that the Russian Nazis do not hesitate to destroy the cities. Tallinn is a logical primary target and it is unlikely that Paide will defend himself furiously after that. If you need to spend a billion, you have to spend a billion. It's just money, we don't have any choice today. Estonia needs a government that, unlike today, does not act in the interests of the Kremlin. It is no longer time to deepen the misery and chaos of the country through the back door, otherwise only those Estonians who have left their home country in time for seeking employment can be considered to be happy in the future. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: how many refugees have accommodated the municipalities of Viimsi and Rae today? Silence. It's eloquent silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U233	Martin Helme, please! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U234	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill is, of course, depressing, and the points of discussion associated with this bill are also depressing. The most frustrating of all, of course, is the instinctive quality of our government today, the liberal government, to sell all its hogs by unscrupulous lying. Let's start with the lie that yesterday came from the Prime Minister in the First Studio that this bill is a draft by the Minister of the Interior of the EKRE and why they are now opposed to this draft. This draft has been made when the Conservative People's Party of Estonia was in government and fought for the restriction of immigration with nails and teeth, and the Ministry of the Interior, under the leadership of the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme, prepared a draft that would limit the chances of arriving in Estonia of low-cost labour, reduce their time here, raise their salary requirements and make it more difficult to re-formate itself from temporary to permanent residents. This was the idea of the draft that we prepared and agreed with our coalition associates at the time. Then, of course, a coup d'état took place, and instead of withdrawing the bill, as was done with most of the other previous government's drafts, it was left waiting for better days. Now it turns out the war is a better day. What is happening in Ukraine, this depressing, awfully depressing tragedy that will take place there, and the horrors that will take place there, are an excellent excuse and cover for the Reform Party to begin to demolish the Estonian nation state, to start pushing Estonian workers into poverty and to start leading the Estonian economy on the path of stagnation. There is no better day than when there is a war in Ukraine, in the shadow of which to do all the things that might otherwise have been uncomfortable to do. Political debates and debates might have caused discomfort. At the moment, it can be said that if you do not agree with anything in this opposition, you are the Minions of Putin. Well, I think Putin's minions are the ones who want to flood Estonia with cheap migrant workers who do not speak Estonian. I really think that the people who do this are the enemies of Estonia. But we'll take it in pieces. First of all, the lie that this is our bill, I categorically reject it. This bill bears a number from the time of the previous government, our government, but his contents have been completely turned upside down. It's a inverted bill. Everything we originally applied for has been reversed here, and it opens up even more possibilities. It creates opportunities to come to Estonia, it makes it easier to bring low-cost labour to Estonia, it extends the time spent in Estonia for low-cost labour, it makes it easier to transform the same slave labour into another slave labour force or permanent labour force in Estonia. In other words, the changes introduced by today's government coalition into this bill have made this draft contrary to its original. Why aren't we in favour of cheap labour? Why do we not want an endless stream of people who are willing to work in Estonia, ignoring all the working conditions and wage requirements of a normal Western society? There are simple reasons that have already been crossed over several times. Firstly, such an economic model is the economic model of a country in which the economy is not developing. Every time the ministers or politicians of the Reform Party start telling me something about IT-Estonia and developing, open, advanced and science-based Estonia, I don't know whether to make a pain flu or ironic agrimass, because there is no development in any direction in the economy that is full of cheap labour, there is only regression. There is no IT development, there is no increase in production, there is no innovation, there is nothing like this. Only the impoverishment of Estonia's own people and the leaving of the poorer Estonia's own people abroad will happen. And since we need a workforce, we're always short of a workforce, there's gonna be new people coming in. There's going to be a replacement for the population, and they're going to sell it to us, telling us that this way we're gonna get richer. On the contrary, we will be poorer. Today, there are 45000 unemployed in Estonia. 44801 was up at the unemployment fund this morning. The rumor that we have some huge shortage of labour is a disgusting lie. We have no shortage of labour. We are short of a woodenman and a doctor, or people, who are willing to work hard for nothing from morning to night. That's the people we're short on. But it has to be, because it's not a normal economy where you want to have slaves who come to work in the morning before sunrise, work all day long, and when the midnight is over, maybe they can crawl somewhere crawling on to go again in four hours. It was an economic model that worked in the mid-19th century at the beginning of the industrial revolution and revolutionized many countries. We do not want such an economic model. Well, obviously the Reform Party does. But what is not true, which is just another frustrating disgusting lie, is that we have a shortage of labour. We have no shortage of labour. We have 45,000 unemployed and come to Ukraine every day. So don't tell us about it. Another disgusting lie is that we need these people to pay our pensions. They're not gonna pay us pensions. Firstly, by coming here and suppressing their salaries, they are directly and immediately reducing social tax receipts, i.e. the income of our pension fund. Right now! Even today, employers are releasing their current employees and taking over the shocked and distressed people who have just come from a bomb blast in Ukraine with half their pay. Maybe they're just abusing the people we put a blue and yellow tape on our chest to make an impression on. But all those people who support this law want those war refugees for whose troubles they accuse us of not being sympathetic enough, just to put the slave labour into immediate use. It's just disgusting. And it will not increase pensions now or in the future, because, as I said, it will not increase innovation in our economy, it will not increase the productivity of our economy, it will not increase our wage levels, and therefore tax receipts will not increase. Okay, I'm almost out of time. Another lie that I want to mark at the end of my speech is that this bill will be sold to us by telling us that otherwise we will not be able to legalise these refugees from Ukraine in Estonia. Sorry, they're already legalized. Whether it is done in a quite polite manner or with respect to the thoughts of Estonian law, I am not sure, but they have already been legalised. Do not tell us that the war in Ukraine requires the liquidation of the Estonian nation state at the moment. No, it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U235	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U236	Dear Riigikogu! To come up with this bill now is particularly irresponsible in a situation where we have been hit by an unprecedented wave of war refugees from Ukraine. That is why I would like to focus a little on issues and issues relating to Ukrainian refugees in order to open them up more widely. Of course we have to help them. We must help these women and children, not for any simple humanitarian reasons, but because we are helping a country that is fighting for its freedom and its independence. Of course, we need to see Ukrainian refugees in a completely different way than immigrants from outside Europe, for example. It's our moral duty. However, we must bear in mind what our powers are and what is the limit of these abilities, how much we are actually able to help without being hit by a disaster as a result. Some of the points on which we must focus, above all, on which we must not forget in our current refugee policy. In view of this large number of refugees who have already arrived from Ukraine, there are already over 20,000 in Estonia and this number is only increasing, we should now and now establish a moratorium on all other immigration in Estonia. We need to tighten up all immigration quotas considerably. There is also a need to review these residence permits, which have so far been extremely easily shared with the aim of letting cheap labour into Estonia in order to fill those sectors of society where some entrepreneurs or politicians believe that wages should be low. This is not right, and the result could be a demographic disaster. If we look at the population picture of Estonia and the proportion of different nationalities, if there were to be a permanent addition of foreigners from a large city to Estonia, this would have an irreversible negative impact on the Estonian population, as non-Estonians are already over 31% in Estonia and we will see an increase in its [percent] in the future. This situation is of particular concern in Tallinn, of course, and most refugees arrive in Tallinn. If this continues in this direction, it will take very little time for the Estonians to remain a minority in their own capital city. All of this means that those Ukrainian refugees who have not come to Estonia to be a source of cheap labour, who have left their homes behind because they have been driven away from there by an alien conqueror, who now see the opportunity for Estonian entrepreneurs and the labour market, are wrong and treacherous towards them. If we were to create a situation where the Ukrainians, who have arrived in Estonia, would be left here, it would actually mean that we would contribute to tearing them apart from our homeland, with their roots. You can't let that happen. Then the question arises as to what Ukrainian soldiers are fighting for at the front. What do they suffer and die for? Still for the survival of their national home, where Ukrainian language and culture can be preserved, not for their people to be scattered around the world forever. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U237	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U238	If we were to take a course now so that the Ukrainians who arrive here must remain in Estonia forever, this would be completely the opposite of the goal that the Ukrainian army is fighting for at the front today. Of course, Estonia must not become a refuge for deserters, men aged 18 to 60, perhaps a part of whom is shirking the defence of their country, even though they are military servicemen. This means that when men aged 18 to 60 arrive in Estonia, we must check the border and see if they have actually been officially released from military service by the Ukrainian Government or if they are deserters. If we were to accept deserters to Estonia, we would actually undermine Ukraine's defence capabilities, but we must not do that under any circumstances. Also, for all Ukrainian citizens who were already in Estonia, the Estonian state must be particularly clear and make sure that no one of them is currently using the working visa or long-term visa granted by the Estonian state in order to circumvent military service. Of course, there must be no integration programmes aimed at permanently anchoring Ukrainian refugees to the Estonian-speaking or Russian-speaking communities here. This means that schoolchildren who arrive in large numbers must be provided with Ukrainian education at all costs, not put into Estonian or Russian schools. If we let them blend into the Russian-speaking environment, it would actually be a disservice to the national and cultural self-consciousness of Ukraine, which is still on the rise, it is still getting underfoot. We must support Ukraine at all costs by keeping the Ukrainian people who arrive here in the Ukrainian cultural space, in the Ukrainian language room, because we know that it has actually been quite bad stories in Ukraine so far, and they have fought a lot in domestic politics to make Ukrainian the only national language in Ukraine. Of course, it is positive if Ukrainian refugees wish to voluntarily acquire Estonian, but this should not be our goal in itself. Our goal should still be that when the war ends victoriously, with the victory of the Ukrainian troops, the Ukrainian refugees to whom we have sheltered will be able to return home to rebuild their country. That should be our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U239	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U240	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If the Estonian state is compared to a large dam, it is appropriate to use a comparison at this point that the breakage of a large dam begins first from a small deer. And this bill represents quite a few small cracks. And they're both in his contents and in the style of how he's gotten to us. First of all, it is a very bad style to take a draft made by the previous government, to turn it upside down and say that it is yours. It's a bad style, it's not true. And none of the things that are not true can be the basis for any good product or act or law in the future. Secondly, we have heard here over these days that there has been no substantive analysis of the possible effects. We do not know what the impact on the labour market will be. We do not know what the impact will be on internal security, what will happen in the housing market, who will be affected in one way or the other, and what the reactions will be. We do not know what the impact will be on our education sector, our social benefits and so on and so forth, not to mention the basis of the state, the nations and the nations that live in that country. I would stress one of these factors. Until now, we do not know where the border of the Estonian state is, nor do we know what the time limit is, where we can cope. In addition, the situation around Estonia is changing [all the time]. In such a situation, pushing this bill forward is like blindfolding on a curved mountain road. As a rule, it cannot end well until the ride stops and the blindfold is removed. Now this unexpected aspect of foreign policy that came out here yesterday. We'll welcome the fugitives, say we're good with you. And then secretly insult [they], giving a very strange description of what is happening in Ukraine. I think it's disrespectful for them, but above all, for us. Remember what we discussed and voted on in this Chamber just a while ago. But perhaps in this wording of the draft law it is [refers] that the strange behaviour of the members of the Central Party Group was not an accident at the time in the vote, but that is the real position of the government coalition. Because if it weren't, this bill would be withdrawn. But it stays inside and it's painted smaller, it's a matter of [just] some wording, in my opinion there are no coincidences in such matters and there are no insignificant details. Super-badness! Well, if he is a mistake, how can it even get to this hall?! But there is also an explanation for this: the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was not present at the debate on such a key document. And maybe when it was prepared, he didn't have time, he worked on his real estate issues in Pärnu, Pärnu City Council. This is proof again that sitting on several chairs may not always end well. So the saga that once started with the floor of the cold warehouse, this embarrassing saga has continued here. It's still going on today. For example, national defence issues have been discussed a lot. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U241	Please, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U242	Thank you. Look, it's awkward here, too. In December, the ten-year national defence development plan was approved, and it did not even survive three months. A second amendment is already being discussed. And we don't know what's gone wrong here. Were the threat tests bad? It seems to me that the threat analysis has been adequate, as well as human guts. Have decisions been made badly, or has the military counsel of the Commander of the Defence Forces been incompetent? At least that's the question. This defence development plan has not been challenged by the Commander of the Defence Forces. And no wonder to see how much time the Commander of the Defence Forces devotes to the media, especially social media. It is humanly understandable that he may not always have time for a more important subject. And let us put in this very difficult cooperation and actually put in this wrong: the Commander of the Defence Forces has claimed that politicians came up with proposals without talking to him in substance. He said it last year at the Postman. That's a lie. We started coming up with these proposals because we met with the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Chancellor. I'm so sorry if the Commander of the Defence Forces forgot. I'll take the opportunity to remind you of that. Everyone gets it wrong from time to time, and I hope it was just a mistake. But I'm going to draw a line down on this. In particular, anti-aircraft is particularly important. Any expensive military ability to prevent assault is cheaper than rebuilding a broken state. Ukraine is a very warning and clear example for us here. Moreover, this is the first line of defence for the protection of the population, in which we have very many omissions. It's the first echelon in civil defense if the country isn't bombed. I hope that the coalition will also understand that there is no need to wait for public support in collective action to deal with problems. Public assistance should also be welcome when we prepare such legislative proposals and major decisions. There is also a need to receive public assistance, as well as the help of colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U243	Kalle Grünthal, please! Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U244	Ladies and gentlemen, There has already been enough talk about the threat to our nation state, which will result from the adoption of this draft. That is why I am not going to deal with these issues. However, I would like to draw attention to a very important nuance, which has not been said so much, but which is absolutely as important. I am thinking of the enormous haltura done by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Perhaps it would be more understandable if I were to try to speak up very briefly about the hierarchy of our legal system, pointing out the sources of justice. First of all, when we imagine the Estonian legal system as a pyramid, human rights rise above it as a cloud. The next step should be the Constitution. Next comes one centimeter below the law of the European Union, the directives of the European Union, the regulations that have made a very large splash in order to take precedence over the Constitution of Estonia. Then there will be laws, regulations, orders. The next step is decisions, rules and other measures governing such internal procedures. And the important sign is that they must all be in line with the above-mentioned higher legislation. In addition, there is still an un codified right, in other words, customs and customs. What is the biggest problem in this matter? The whole problem is that this draft has been dealt with irregularly. The Board of the Riigikogu has approved the rules of regulation of the drafts to be processed in the Riigikogu and compliance with this rule is mandatory according to the legal hierarchy. I stress: mandatory. What, though, is the result of this bill? The result is that it has been done with complete haltura, in the hope that we will not notice it here in the Riigikogu. First of all, the rule of law is mandatory and Section 3 describes the requirements for a draft law amending and repealing the law. These requirements also concern the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. It shall specify, inter alia, the effects of the law and, as a result of its implementation, the parts of the explanatory memorandum which shall also indicate possible adverse reactions to the implementation of the law. If we look at what has been done in this draft explanatory memorandum and what has not been done, it is a mystery. First of all, the explanatory memorandum must explain the social effects and this is done. However, the norm rules also say that demographic effects, which are absolutely not covered in this explanatory memorandum, must be explained. So that's the first sign that this thing hasn't been done correctly. Then, as Alar Laneman also touched: the impact on national security and external relations. This is, let's say, the part that, when you read, your hair gets up. Imagine, within the framework of this same bill, the following fact has been explained: I mean security with the following text: "The change has a positive impact on Estonia's internal security in the long term. " And it is added that the European Union has concluded visa facilitation agreements with a number of third countries, such as Russia, to facilitate short-term travel for citizens and allow them to work in the short term. This has a positive impact on internal security! Russian citizens can come here because it will have a positive impact on working in terms of internal security! It does not matter at all what is being said in the press today that we are imposing some sanctions. There is a draft before us saying that the visa facilitation agreements [to be applied] to Russian citizens have a positive impact on internal security. Do you understand where we are now? In public, we speak one thing, but through the back door, the explanatory memorandum reveals the real wishes and thoughts of this government. I'm asking you, I wonder who's up to Putin right now. Let's move on to security. It is said that the amendment will have a positive effect not only on Estonia's internal security, but also on Estonia's long-term security. And the next sentence will be all disproving. The Defence Police have highlighted in their yearbooks the danger posed by the emergence of communities with a significantly different religious and cultural background from the Estonian cultural space. The Defence Police warns, but the author of the explanatory memorandum, the government, believes that this will have a very positive effect in the long run! I say it's Putin's thing that's being done here right now. Moreover, there is no impact on the living environment; there is no analysis of the natural environment. Regional development has not been taken into account in absolute terms. And that is, in fact, how I say, the kind of thing that we are trying to do, despite the lack of the explanatory memorandum, to make it easier for nations to enter this Europe. I understand when they say it doesn't have to be noted, but the rule still says it has to be noted. And what is of course important: absolutely there is no described security [in the field] of positive and negative effects of these solutions [in the implementation]. Finally, I would like to say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should be ashamed. I stress: I feel ashamed that such a breach of the norm has been committed. I am thinking not of the Commission's staff, but of the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who has pushed it through at the will of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U245	Kert Kingo, please! Sorry, Alar Laneman has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U246	Yeah. Maybe I pressed the wrong button, but Kalle Grünthal mentioned me, and I understand that then I have the right to rejoinder. I am very grateful to Kalle for drawing attention to such an important aspect. I am not, of course, the most competent person to speak on this subject, but foreign policy aspects should never be neglected, even at first sight, in the development of such a technical document. I would continue to wish Kalle a keen eye for recognition of important issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U247	The procedure for this clarification is to press the "Word" key. Kert Kingo now, please! Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A great deal has already been pointed out here, a great deal has been said. I am talking about, from a national perspective, existing and deepening and also emerging problems in the light of this draft. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that this draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 September 2020. The draft has been developed to ensure the stay of foreigners in Estonia, study and settle in Estonia, who contribute to the development of Estonia and whose stay is in accordance with the public interest and the needs of the Estonian labour market. [The wish is also] to enhance the ability to verify compliance with the conditions of employment of aliens. The explanatory memorandum also states that the draft amends the regulations. Yeah, they did. It was so diligent that there was virtually nothing left of the original principles and objectives of the previous government's approved version, which [were in the letter]. Thus, the author of the draft is, in essence, the current government. One of the objectives of the draft is to alleviate the large labour shortages in Estonia. According to yesterday's unemployment fund, we had 44800 unemployed, which is likely to have increased by today, and 7400 vacancies, which may still have fallen by today. I have a question: where do you see the shortage of labour here? These already worn-out claims that the Estonians are not willing or unable to do farm, table, construction or field work are not true. It's the paycheck. If there is a choice that the cost of going to work will be higher than the income from work, the job will not really be done. I would point out that many of these works had been forced by Estonians to go to Finland years ago during the rule of the Reform Party. There they did all the work that is now said that the Estonian does not know how to do them or does not agree to do them. This draft will continue to encourage the exploitation of the Ukrainians that have taken place so far, and will encourage it even more. For example, I know of a case in Tartu County where a farmer had placed the Ukrainians in a huddled shed. There were beds placed there, the weather was minimally protected, but there was a rainy summer. These people worked there 12 and 14 hours a day, seven days a week. Their salary had been formally set up, but in reality the thing was that on the payday, the Ukrainian and the employer had to go to the ATM, take out the excess cash and give it to the employer. And so these poor Ukrainians have been enslaved all along. I recall the oath of the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Estonia: "In taking up the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience in this capacity. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. " In this light, I ask how this law guarantees the well - being of the Estonian people. How does this secure the future of the Estonian people? In the labour markets, less offers begin. The person who is willing to work for less is the person who gets the job. This principle undermines the local labour market, undermines wages and ultimately the entire economy. Another emigration of Estonians begins. Children are left without a father and grandparents without the care and support of their loved ones. In addition, immigration will continue through schools. The fact that the law specifies the educational establishments where a short- or long-term visa may be issued when studying does not make up for the problem that a very large proportion of these so-called learners do not participate or have participated in the study at all. How is it controlled? Is it even controlled, and who controls it? As long as it has been done, it has been more than modest. In the light of this whole bill, it is very embarrassing to hear the talk of the unfortunate refugee of war, who really is. But in the light of this, the same people who have been forced to leave their homes are wanted to come to a foreign country, treat them like slaves, paying them a very small salary in Estonian terms. Yes, indeed, for war refugees, any salary is necessary and important, but this [draft] is just impertinent, it is extremely hypocritical. Especially that it is shown in this light as if it were a good deed. This law is a law that is harmful to Estonia. This law and what is expressed in this law do not coincide with what was recorded in the oath of the Government of the Republic and how these ministers and the government have made their oath. This law is detrimental to the state, nation, economy and the future of Estonia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U249	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U250	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U251	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U252	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, It is extremely regrettable that today, on the initiative of the coalition, we are forced to discuss this draft, which we are not only supposed to discuss here, but really should not be discussing, at least not in the form that he has moved from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to second reading in the large Chamber. There are two very fundamental and major problems and a series of minor details, nuances and also very important aspects that we should discuss between political parties over a longer period of time, because they deserve a very serious and fundamental debate and decision-making. But first of all, these two big problems. The first is that the coalition is abusing the current war situation in Ukraine and, in the shadow of the refugee crisis, trying to redesign the fundamentals of Estonia's current migration policy. And this is done as a package of Brezhnev, where, on the one hand, there are really urgent issues relating to refugees that need to be resolved and which we should discuss separately, and, on the other hand, general issues relating to all our migration, immigration policy, which need long-term thinking and debate. And this is now being done with a draft initiated by the previous government in a completely different situation and carried out on other agendas, which has been redesigned and brought here urgently before us. This is a completely unacceptable situation, and also unethical, precisely from the point of view of us taking advantage of the war situation. And the second, very fundamental and major problem is that, on several occasions, the law contains an extremely unsuccessful wording, which can be interpreted in various ways, but which, when it is read as it is written, does not leave room for doubt that when it was adopted as it was presented, we deny that there was some kind of military activity in Ukraine before 2022, or before 24 February 2022. I quote [the wording of the second reading]: "Because of the military conflict that began in Ukraine on 24 February 2022... " It really leaves interpretation free. This may be a civil war in Ukraine, as it has been interpreted by Nikolai Põdramägi, who did not fit the Centre Party, but this wording fits into our draft law here in Parliament and we are seriously discussing it, I stress: because of the military conflict that began in Ukraine on 24 February 2022. In fact, we all know that military action has been in progress since 2014, is occupied by Crimea and so on. And the Estonian Parliament, seriously, after all the statements that we have discussed here, and the initiatives that we have taken will go this way to adopt the Aliens Act, where we declare the attitude and will of Parliament in this form. This is completely unacceptable, colleagues. This is completely unacceptable! I call on you to be responsible and not to push this bill through in this way. But, of course, there are a number of other problems and issues in this draft that we did not receive any answers from the Commission representative. I'm gonna touch them a little bit, though. The same coefficient of 0.8 concerning the salaries of refugees, precisely those of refugees who are Ukrainian citizens and who arrived in Estonia before 24 February this year. It is specifically stated that they can be paid a sector-specific salary of 0.8. This is a very bad message. It's a very clear message that these people are secondary here, they can be paid lower wages, they're a separate group that we're bringing out in law. According to the representative of the Commission, Estonia is very different from one region to another and, for example, in Võrumaa or Saaremaa, it is not as high a sector-specific salary as it is in Tallinn. Indeed, we know that regional differences exist and that there is an interest of employers in introducing such a provision. But there's another side. In Tallinn, where there is 1.5- or two times the average wage in Estonia, also sector-specific, we also allow them to be paid only to these Ukrainian citizens and not to others with 0.8 coefficients. But to them we promise. And it creates a situation where we treat them differently. We are going this way that, in this difficult and regrettable situation, some employers see an opportunity to take advantage of, and they treat refugees as cheap labour. And it's unethical. It's unethical! We should certainly treat these Ukrainian citizens equally with other potential Estonian workers. Returning once again to the fundamentals of migration policy, it is absolutely incomprehensible why we should, here in the context of this draft, also resolve long-term migration policies of third countries in dealing with such operational issues. All other changes, which also merit a longer discussion, are a separate issue, such as a 1.5-fold reduction in this double average wage or growth companies, the definition of which cannot be understood. Why such a definition? Who's it extending to? There were no answers to how much potentially these companies could have. And the story that it extends to so-called start-ups who are in the growing phase of the draft text does not make it count as being intended for start-ups. It is intended for all companies that meet these criteria and, of course, it would not be justified why we should only grant such derogations to start-ups. But once again, this ambition to change the whole migration policy in the shadow of the refugee crisis and to take advantage of this situation is unacceptable. And this extremely unfortunate wording concerning the beginning of the war in Ukraine would be a completely wrong message for the world's public by the Estonian Parliament. Such arguments will require, and I hope that we have so much common sense, that we interrupt second reading, incorporate improvements into this bill, allocate the refugee share and move forward with these things so that long-term problems can be resolved through a long debate and urgent issues now quickly. The Isamaa Group proposes that the second reading be suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U253	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U254	Dear Vice-Chairman, Honourable fellows! In these dramatic times, we also need to talk about history. As a historian, I notice sharply what happens when memory dulls. We are now seeing how the occupied Russian state of former Czechs, the KGB, the top of which has seized power with fraud, with fraudulent elections, is, in fact, a very uneducated group. They don't deserve their jobs. And if uneducated characters seize power illegally, the power of that power will fall hard. And they don't know their own history. And that's how they're destroying their own country right now. And they will also destroy the Ukrainian state, create brutal suffering, very severe suffering, and not only in Ukraine. We know how many wars Putin Russia has already waged. And the strangest thing is that the Russian-speaking cities will be destroyed under the slogan of denacification. If there is no long historical memory, there could be short-term memory, i.e. to look at neighbouring countries in the context of the same law, Finland, Sweden, which has happened as a result of mass immigration. It is known that the employment rate of immigrants from Arabic and African countries is very low, but social costs are cosmic. In France, a number of high-ranking officers have warned against internal conflicts caused by mass immigration and related tensions. In Germany, the former Turks were expected to benefit greatly from mass labour immigration. The opposite has happened, the Germans must sustain a large part of them. It has happened that German schools are retreating in the middle of Berlin, German in the German cities retreats. Was that the goal that began with the beautiful word of labour immigration that a car factory could flourish for a decade? But the fruits, the consequences have to be solved three or four generations later. President Donald Trump delivered four important messages. He was foresighted about China, he was foresighted about Germany, saying that Germany must increase its defence costs. He also said: liberal global economic policy has no future; development should be in a regional or even local direction. This means bringing production home. The demographic situation in the United States is a serious problem, said Trump, and immigration should be severely restricted. Consider it the United States, the promised land of immigrants! They also have problems with immigration. It's only a matter of time before English falls under Spanish. The tensions it brings in the United States are still unforeseen. Jaan Männik, former Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, correctly said in today's Postimees article that our most serious problem, however, is the demographic situation, which is not a new problem. He is concerned whether we will speak Estonian in 50 years' time. Jaan Männik also said that the peoples of Europe are facing difficult times and will take decades before we live as well as in 2019, or before the corona virus arrives. The most important change in Estonian politics would be that in future national politics will lead economic policy, not vice versa. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U255	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U256	Unfortunately, some of the rulers of democratic countries have also been those whose main value is, as the Old Rome saying says, money does not stink. Gerhard Schröder, former Chancellor of Germany, proved to be an agent of Gazprom and still hangs on Putin's hook. The war has not changed his mind. This harmful partnership made Germany dependent on Russia. Unfortunately, the people of Ukraine must now know the fruits of this business under bombs. All of this shows that serious misdecisions have been made in economic policy and security policy. Do we have to believe that encouraging mass immigration, relying on cheap labour has been the right way to go? Only a decade ago, the topic of visa liberalisation with Russia was dealt with in Estonia. Is that foresight? I recall our own history: at the end of 1941 the Estonians were 90.8%, in 1945 97%, but as a result of immigration in 1959 only 74%, in 1970 68% and moving downwards in 1989 61%. But how much has the situation improved by today? Very slowly, very persistently, very hard. The policy set up by Stalin and other Soviet leaders in its time set out two fundamental tasks: changing the ethnic composition of the population and placing industry in Estonia. The preferred heavy industry had the character of the colonial industry. The companies had no local workforce or market. The central power imported unqualified labour for the Baltics, while exporting production. Are we as short-sighted now? Then we fought. We knew that Stalinist politics would devastate the Estonian people. But are we now naive like the Germans who thought that the cheap Turkish labour force would save Germany? Let's think twice before we go this way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U257	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U258	Thank you, Mr President, Vice-Chairman. There have been little lies and big lies on the remote. It seems to me that yesterday, a good colleague, Mr Mölder, whom we once fought for freedom of enterprise, simply because of blind love for the government or governments, described the changes that have been made to this draft. How else could it be considered to be fully understanding what he was saying here yesterday? But fortunately, there are protocols. And what the Prime Minister said yesterday or today really, so to speak, is right that this is the initiative of the Government of Jüri Ratas. However, if we look at the explanatory memorandum to this draft, it is well stated here that the first reading of the draft took place on 21 October 2020, the amendments could be tabled by 20 November. Before the deadline for tabling amendments, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs held three meetings: on 9 November 2020 the representatives of the CPO were heard, on 10 November the debate continued and then there was a meeting of 17 November where representatives of interest groups presented their views and opinions. And then the draft procedure stopped. That's what the explanatory memorandum says. That was actually the end of the procedure for this draft. And the new phase of the draft procedure began, for very pragmatic reasons, as the government decided that it would be easier and more reasonable for them not to come with its draft but to amend the draft in progress. This will make it possible to deal with matters more quickly. On 10 March 2022, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications submitted proposals to amend and supplement the draft. So these are government changes. While I also asked the Prime Minister in Question Time today why the government made these amendments to this draft, why it changed this draft in this way, the Prime Minister shattered shoulders and said that he did not know that this was a draft pending in Parliament, which was initiated by the Ratas Government. But these are two different things, very different things. Luckily, the explanatory memorandum explains that. What's the problem? If we look, it's just a problem for me, that's what we're doing here today. There's no point in telling me what history is, because as it says, it stopped. No one planned to proceed with this bill; we have here a so - called statement that the bill will be put on the shelf. No. This bill stood on the shelf and collected dust until it was useful to take it out and turn it to the opposite of the original idea. The problem with these amendments is this incredibly unpleasant special moment, which arrived on 24 February. We are in a war situation, the Russians have invaded Ukraine and we have adopted several drafts. This bill describes it quite mysteriously. An even bigger problem is that we do not really know what future awaits us. The government at the first moment that it had been sitting with the governments of the other Baltic states, it came to the conclusion that Estonia's capacity could be around 10,000 people, like Latvia. Lithuania then took an attitude towards the possible integration of half the number of war refugees into society. As the Prime Minister said, this was the number that was assumed to be tolerated in society, so we are not really paying attention. That's the number of people. Today we know that war refugees are over 21,000, and we know that every war refugee we face must help and we want to help. But according to forecasts, there's a number like 100,000. At the same time, we know there's a limit somewhere. However, we do not have an exact adjustment where the limit is where we can help people. The discussion was just that we assumed that there would be older people, in fact... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U259	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U260	... in fact it turned out that most of the younger women come with children. Many of these children can go to school. And then there's a bunch of kids, if I remember correctly, there's 40% of them, who's [small], so that's why mom has to be with them and can't go anywhere on the labour market. So first of all, we don't know how long this situation is going to be, how much the hand is going to be, and we've put [all] in this mess. Instead of resolving, [as] being all noble and positive, quickly related to war refugees, we have decided in this context that we want to change the fundamentals of Estonia's migration policy. We change everything in a situation where we really don't know what kind of events we're facing in a month, two, four or six months. No one knows this, neither I nor the Prime Minister, because this situation is unpredictable, just as no one could foresee the morning of 24 February in this form. Here reference has been made, and I understand that the head of the unemployment fund in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also spoke about [what] the war situation in Estonia is forecasting. For example, today, several previous speakers have said there are 44 800 unemployed. But Meelis Paavel has said in the Commission that about 13,000 unemployed people will emerge in Estonia due to the war situation. And probably about the same amount may be associated with war refugees - some 26000 unemployed. Perhaps what we are trying to say here is that we are solving some problem in the labour market, clearly not a criminal, is not right. Therefore, this draft and these amendments cannot be supported in any form. I very much hope that Parliament will have the courage to cut it off at second reading so that we can select and divide important and urgent issues relating to war refugees, issues relating to helping them. As far as Estonia's immigration policy is concerned, we can and have dealt with it in the past. This is certainly neither fast nor necessary in the current situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U261	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U262	Three minutes, please, in case I can't make it. But I hope I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U263	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U264	Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I wouldn't have come here if I hadn't read the Express last night. But I read the Express, and I felt like I was in kindergarten, that I was gonna pinch another ass, and I was gonna scream before he did it, he did it. That's why I came here. I'm not talking about numbers because they've been talked about a lot. Recently, we read in the press that Estonia is very good and compassionate about Ukraine. I won't argue with that. Almost everyone gives away, there is an emergency and different patterns of behaviour. I would like to say that it is important not to try to make it clear through the press that the EKRE has no sympathy. Our Greeks have visited the Polish border, there have been collections and aided refugees here in Estonia. Except we don't squeal about it every time. It's a matter of how we help. If we help our own people to be impoverished, small businesses get into trouble, our own people will leave. We have experience. At a time when we were allowed to be taken to the five richest countries, some 100,000 workers left us. Our regional development suffered very badly from this. Many of these people have set up a business in Finland or Sweden and are operating there very successfully. The experience of Norwegians says that migrant workers from third countries are holding back wage increases. In the sectors where they brought in foreign workers, wages rose twice as slowly. The Norwegians have concluded that wage increases or better working time planning would help to keep their workforce. One problem will be the integration of migrant workers. It's about national security. A balance must be struck between migrant and local labour. The 241 draft law does not provide assurance that this integration will be successful. There is no point in saying that I am not sympathetic to refugees if I am not in favour of this bill. True, I don't feel sorry for everyone. But those of you who really need help, I'm ready to help, but I'm ready to help so they don't have to get the package and the brand-new stuff. This isn't helping me. Above all, I can help when I myself, my loved ones, are full, if I say so figuratively. It is true that bringing refugees here is currently a little more under the control of the state than it was. But I cannot accept the uncontrolled action of refugee aids. We send buses, we pay for them, we shoot refugees in the middle of Town Hall Square, and then let the country see what happens to them. This is where a lot of problems start, and it all requires resources. Do we know how much and what kind of resource and who are ultimately happy in the long run, refugees or us? No one, I believe. The possibility of paying a lower salary to migrant workers, whether they are refugees or not, than their labour force does not carry the economy forward. So let's help, let's help from the heart, but let's do it with a clear head and common sense. This bill is not in line with either a clear mind or a warm heart. Let's think and move on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U265	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U266	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, People who listen to us, look at us! One of the most worrying trends in Estonian society is that if you talk about defending the interests of Estonia's own people, you will immediately be branded as Putin's minion and so on, with different very colorful, descriptive words. And, unfortunately, we must say the same thing about the same bill. We have read here, even yesterday, for example, different interpretations that everyone who does not support this bill is in any way opposed to helping war refugees and so on in this colour. That's not true at all. After all, this bill is not directly related to these war refugees, but with this bill we actually want to bring down the wage level in Estonia and reduce wages in the future. Yesterday we found out there wasn't actually an analysis. The rapporteur for the bill had to admit that there is no analysis of what will happen if this law was adopted in five or ten years' time, how much must actually begin to emigrate from Estonia those people who are working here today. This [analysis] does not exist. It was said on a number of occasions in a demagogic way that the previous, good government started this draft and now suddenly they do not want to support it. It's not quite the kind of talk you're talking about. There have been times and times that the bill that was initiated during the previous government is only 70%. This playing with a percentage costs nothing if the actual purpose and content of this draft or any draft is changed. The amendment may also be 2%, but if the idea of the draft is completely different from what it originally was, it is not worth talking about how much the percentage has changed and how much has not changed. And it's a serious problem that we don't analyze things, we don't have an analysis, we don't really understand what it's gonna do to us. Essentially, we are reducing wage levels in Estonia. We all know these stories that, even now, there is a temptation to replace foreign workers who have worked in the past and now to employ cheaper people in the new situation. Is that what we want? I don't want that. Now that we come to how many war refugees we already have today and what the government's position is, I really think that neither the people in this Chamber nor our listeners-viewers really know what the country's plan is. We were told about 10,000 at the beginning, then 50, 100,000 at the beginning, and the Minister of Social Protection has said that some calculations have been made for 100,000 people, and possible expenditure on the state budget is over 100 million quarters. The whole debate we have had here for the second day has not been carried out in any way because there are bad people here who do not want to help people in war. I don't think there's a single person here who doesn't say we have to help those people who are in trouble in the war. But we cannot forget our people, our country and our people. And here in Question Time today, listening to the speeches of some of the coalition parties, it seemed amazing how everyone who starts talking about our own Estonian people is suddenly some kind of henchmen, bad people who dare to think differently. Where does such thinking come from? Totally abnormal! Speaking of jobs, there are a lot of different facts here today. But it's true... Yeah, three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U267	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U268	Thank you. It is true that we have no knowledge. We operate with numbers that we have 7,000 free jobs in the circuit and 44000 or a little after unemployment in Estonia, right? But we have no clear idea how many of our people are going to leave here. We all understand that when people come to us who have fled the war from a country where the wage level was actually significantly lower than in Estonia, they are in multiple troubles. They have to come away from their homes. Of course they want to work, and they're good people. But we understand that if a person from this society is willing to work here for 300, 400, 500 euros and our people, who did the same job may have been replaced before 600, 700, 800 euros, he doesn't have much choice. He is used to living in Estonia according to the standard of living we have here, and he must start looking for a way out when he goes somewhere else. I just want to say this, good coalition ambassadors and government, when someone listens to us all thinking along. Let us not paint people who raise the problems we face into some sort of henchmen, careless, empathyless people. Those problems we're about to have, we don't even know what to expect today. And we need to work together, not to chop off, that everyone is bad who thinks differently or points to these problems. This bill, which we are currently dealing with here, is extremely bad. I am not talking about what came out yesterday, what is bad about the content of this has been repeatedly said here, it is also a totally unacceptable substantive mistake at international level, and here people are wondering how to get past it. I call on all the ambassadors to support the proposal to interrupt the second reading of this draft. It certainly needs to be removed from the table now and further processed by the Commission. And in fact, it should be put in this form in a drawer and left there forever and ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U269	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U270	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the first member of the Riigikogu and I can say that there is still room for surprise and discovery. The incredible demagoguery, the crap, the lying, the confusion that we saw and heard yesterday during the procedure of this law, did not wait. It shows that I have room for improvement. In Fatherland, this draft has nothing to do with today's draft. The Commission's waitress said it was okay, we've only changed 30%. It is true that I have also seen here that there is no need to change 30% so that the law becomes completely untenable, and today's government and coalition have also demonstrated it eloquently. But if you've already attacked 30%, and then you're proud enough to say that there's nothing, only 30% we changed it, it's your initiation, then it's the most direct and raging lying. And second of all, which I think is very unethical: distance yourself from this bill. My distance from this bill! It means trying to do the work that's been brought into this hall somehow with the other hands. It's actually cowardice. Good coalition partners, it's cowardice if you act like this! It would take a little manhood and courage to say yes, we've come here because we want to do this, a second or a third. But it's not. Of course, the question in itself is the wrong way to say the law, the fault. He's full of cracks in every corner, but it's kind of a political glitch. And can't get over or around today's war in Ukraine. I will mention directly: from the war in Ukraine, where Russia literally kills women, children, young people, old people, destroys infrastructure, destroys cities, sowes death, destroys. And then we tend to call it conflict. Yes, this war, which I mentioned, did not begin on 24 February then he escalated to the full-scale destruction of Ukraine by Russia. It started eight years ago, but it's like this law is now focusing and calling it a conflict that started a moment ago. This is embarrassing! This is particularly embarrassing after we have adopted statements in support of Ukraine together in this Chamber. I would like to look out for some of the present people on the coalition side who have been in the process of handling these statements, say politely, such a hesitation. And it's not just been in the middle party's ranks. There is still reason for the Reform Party to look in the mirror with embarrassment and to watch for a long time. It's embarrassing what you're doing! But now maybe I'll get a little more technical. Here, too, we heard how 0.8 is greater than 1.0. 1.5 is greater than 2.0. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U271	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U272	They tried to sell it to us several times and several times last night, for hours. I don't know! I've really gotten an academic education, too, but I think our primary school kids can handle decimals. There's no point in this bullshit that if we pay $8 per cent of the average wage, it's like more than the average salary. It's just embarrassing to listen to. I find it humiliating for Parliament if you come up with such a story. At least for me, it would be humiliating. From the experience of the local government manager, I dare say that I would have been whistled out if I had dared to go to the parish council with something similar. I would have been fired next day because there's no way to humiliate what you come to with this paper. In this sense, it is truly regrettable. Of course, it is not possible to behave differently here if the [reading of the draft] should be interrupted, the whole issue of refugees and beneficiaries of temporary protection in Ukraine should be separated from it. These people need to be protected. These people need help. These people need substantial help. And you can't get behind this by solving other issues. It's another kind of, well, I think it's a vile approach. The Prime Minister has said that, under today's difficult conditions, we must be united and we must not take things into this procedure that somehow break society or that have not been negotiated. If today, in the shadow of the war, we are going to revisit the fundamental issues that would require a long debate here, I mean the whole migration policy, and we are trying to force it through, what is this? What is it, good prime minister? It's vile behavior. That's the vile behavior of the government you're in charge of. And, good coalition partners, it's a vile behavior on your part, too, if you go along with it. Therefore, indeed, there is no place for this law in its current form other than a trash can. It's gonna have to be completely re-examined. And I hope that these people, these Ukrainian refugees, those people in need of temporary protection, will not really suffer from this, that you have screwed up. Let's help those we need to help! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U273	Thank you very much. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U274	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good voters and good chosen ones, who you are here! There is no point in trying to put a sign on the Fatherland that the Fatherland does not care about Ukraine. Most of the Ukrainians who are travelling here in Estonia and who are taking messages elsewhere, and, of course, the Russian embassy knows that there is a gorjachije estonskije parni in Tallinn: I, Ants Erm and Aivar Kivisiv, who have required the territorial integrity of Ukraine every week since 2014. Since 2014! Most of this hall, which isn't even there right now, I haven't seen it. Individuals maybe just going into the Russian embassy. In fact, it may give rise to an interesting thing that what has already been referred to here, Mr Laneman, said, is it by chance that there has been a "military conflict" here? Once it's a coincidence, twice it's a coincidence, and the third time is already systemic. I really think that it was meant to be written that a special military operation has resulted in a special situation in Ukraine, in which case we should then take these refugees under international protection to work here. I don't know, I haven't been there, but now, as a compromise, this kind of vague concept has come up. That's how I interpret it. I actually interpret a lot of things right now in a war situation exactly as they seem to me, and that's what I want to talk about. I was really hoping when I looked at our maritime affairs, [for the loosunge] "Drawing under the flag of Estonia." I would remind you that I have been speaking here for over a year, after all, the opposition has nothing else to do to Minister for Economic Affairs, Taavi Asa, that there are some 150,000 Ukrainian sailors with STCW diplomas and that they can be renewed. What kind of money is that? For more than a year [I have spoken], we have verbatim reports that do not exist! You did it, it would have brought money, it would have created jobs, it would have improved everything. I remember when we had this procedure, there was a first reading in this hall, I thought, again! I was in the coalition at the time, but I thought, " What's the alien law somewhere, but it was put under somewhere? ' I had a beautiful punk song taken with me, not "a nice mass immigration, a ballalla, a ballalla," but a whole other one. Now, on this law, it has already been said that the fundamentals of migration and migration will be changed, and that is what I do not like. We have a good valid Aliens Act. The previous vice-president we had here, Pevkur, admitted that yes, Isamaa said six times that they liked the Estonian Aliens Act. And that is why we opposed it, and we are actually opposed to it. Can't figure out exactly what it is. Now, here I can say that these numbers, no one can say out, but at the moment there are 125 fewer than 30,000 people here in Estonia, less than 7650 of whom are going for transit, but not going either, because the bird is chirping on its shoulder, that in other countries you may have to study in local language at school, but in Estonia you will be allowed to do so in Russian. That's it. What can we give these refugees? We've actually given everything, but sometimes in a big, excited flash, we don't even notice it. Museum tickets are good. I think even Estonia invites them to the show. And then they look at this skyline: well, in essence, socialist, in form national. That is what Ants Juske said on 25 January 2006, and I think no one is arguing with him. Is this law a socialist law? But he's national as much as it is. Imagine we're sending these people over to look. There are occupying forces, marching, then it's a red flag with a sickle and a hammer. That's a pretty good idea. This window of time, to make a difference, now we have here... I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U275	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U276	To quote a classic. And we still have the fleet officers' house. Can you imagine having a house like Kriegsmarine with all those war flags and fancy battle scenes? We're saying it's an occupation remnant. I think that we ourselves may be mentally occupied if we do not dare to straighten our backs and say things out exactly as we said in 1987, when there was mass immigration in Estonia, and not to confuse war refugees here, because there is no term for a war refugee in this law. Villu Tamme wrote this time: "I bought the Bulletin, where one could read that someone in Tarakanova wanted to come from Tallinn and Petya Jevpatooria has grown tired from her homeland. Time to change apartment, Estonia is waiting. Come to Estonia quickly, there is little people here. He's just the perfect country for you. The fruit sprouts from black soil, the sidewalks are pure gold, a yellow banana on the birch end. And I wrote that there's enough honey and apartments here for everyone. Take your family with you. We'll meet at Victory Square at 2:00 p.m. towards the end of June. Then I spied 10,000 envelopes out of somewhere, and I borrowed 10,000 envelopes from somewhere, and I wrote 10,000 letters and sent them across the country. The end of July wasn't yet, the already severe popular forces invaded the Baltic station, towards the city. This power, this power, this 100-language inscription, no man was able to dampen it. The time came, the sun rowed on the sky. The race to the field was attacked by a human mass. The fear, the horror, the million feet trampled there. The poor square was about to break up, and he finally broke up, swallowed up all the people, rumbling, if there was a swell. The square became the gate of hell, over which the disgusting smell of people without their homeland shone for a long time. [[Singing.]] Come to Estonia quickly, there is little people here. He's just the perfect country for you. The fruit sprouts from black soil, the sidewalks are pure gold, the yellow banana ripens in the birch. Victory on the field at two o'clock, Victory on the field at two o'clock towards the end of June, we meet. Life gets better, Victory Square at 2:00. Come on, you won't regret it!" Why do we have to deal with war refugees with this lame alien and other laws? Do we not have enough macrons to give concrete assistance to the separate Ukrainian war refugees and say that they are victims of the aggression of our neighbouring country? No, we're trying to deal with this, maybe soften somebody's crime in the process. I just know that not reporting a crime is helping a crime, and if you see there's a mistake, but you don't react, you don't get a break, then you're part of the crime. Thank you. Slava Nazi, smert vorogam!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U277	Thank you. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U278	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, who have stayed in the Chamber! The current border control, organised on the Estonian-Latvian border, is a joke for me, an old border guard. Iklase and the three streets of Valga have been placed under police control of cars coming from Latvia. All the side roads that come to Valga-Võru road from Latvia are not controlled. I drove through these roads myself and made sure they were checked. The same is true of the roads that come from Valga towards Pärnu, Latvia to Estonia. There's no control. Only Ikla has control. The Minister of the Interior visited our group and explained how they put control on the Estonian-Latvian border. I made a note to him that all the sidewalks were open. I checked them out. There is no point in explaining to us here the closure of roads. Valga's defence allies are now tasked with placing control on these side roads. There's a lot of side roads. Defence Leagues work, and taking control of these roads does not simply go overnight because people cannot quit their jobs. We'll see how and when these roads can be taken into control. All this inability is due to our reformists who destroyed our border guards, which were helped to build Finnish colleagues. Our border guards also had military capabilities in the form of guerrilla activities, and today this capacity no longer exists. Our neighbours Latvia and Lithuania have not gone that way. We don't know who comes from and where we come from right now, because what's going on at the border is a joke. Let's hope someone comes to their senses, gets those roads closed and gets checked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U279	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U280	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, it's 2022, and you can imagine, the fourth year of membership already, well, there should be some experience both in this hall and in the government, but it's still the second day that this crap is going on here and we're discussing what kind of government bill it is. I'm talking about three things. I am talking about this procedural nonsense, about the need to build solidarity in the current situation and about the threat to the nation state, which has been much talked about today. Okay. On the procedural side. We all know that if we set long-term lines of principle, the parliamentary debate is very important. Impact analyses are needed, procedures need to be followed and a solution is needed for Estonia in the long term. But such a procedure takes time, of course it takes time. The second option is that we are solving some of the emergency situations. And this hall has shown that it can be up to the task, it has been a draft concerning the corona or, for example, the previous supplementary budget. We can actually deal with matters very quickly if it is absolutely necessary. But for this to happen, we need to seek political consensus and we need to deal with an emergency bill, not any confusion. In fact, we know that there is probably an additional budget coming up for refugees, for Ukraine's war. I very much hope that they will all be clearly focused on solving some kind of concern, on resolving the crisis, that we do not have to solve long-term and short-term problems here at once. It is often impossible to do so. For example, the Committee on Culture has, in fact, discussed very thoroughly the abolition of the threshold for comprehensive school finals. The question is whether [this is] an exception in the corona period or a long-term decision, and what is its impact on the preservation of Estonian language and culture, for example. There's no way to make that decision quickly. These are the different objectives that are to be achieved, and obviously the solution by the time of the crisis is one and the other in the long term. And here it is exactly the same: we need to understand what the purpose of the bill is. Political consensus must be sought and emergency cases must be dealt with separately. And, well, if we hurry, mistakes always come in, always come in. To some extent it's natural, you have to accept it. But really, when did the war start? The promise made by Tõnis Möldri that before the third reading there will be changes, given how much this draft has changed at second reading, are we now expecting the same amount of changes and, if so, what are these changes? In this way, it is very difficult to give this trust credit and say that, well, come to the third reading with the bill, it is probably very good and we can all vote in favour. Okay. Secondly, building solidarity. Of course, war refugees are here. We need to know who's here. They must, of course, be able to work if they so wish, they must receive decent pay, and their working conditions cannot compromise in the same way. Earnings needed to live in Estonia, be a war refugee or a local one is elementary. It's not like food's cheaper for a Ukrainian in a store. We have the same costs. And we're not talking about some cheap labour or exploitation. On the one hand, okay, we need a hand at work, and people need income. But it has to be an honest deal. And why am I talking about building solidarity? It is not really this message to people or to businesses, I think, that has not arrived in any way how we are dealing with the current situation: is it any good will on our part, that we are helping war refugees to some extent, because we are sorry for them and we are trying to be good people, or do we want additional labour market hands. We're at war, we're behind Ukraine. Of course, it is difficult and cannot be expected that the current war situation will not affect us. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U281	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U282	Of course, it means tensions in the labour market maybe, it means a difficult situation in the school system, a budget cost of all this, but we are ready to do so. That we are demanding tougher sanctions, that we deliver weapons to Ukraine, and that we help refugees, that is all equally necessary for Ukraine to win the war. Our role is that we can help refugees now. And the rumors that, I don't know, can't give them new things or anything like that, I don't really understand. The war affects us, and the message that we treat war refugees well, treat them equally, do not take advantage of them, do not see the opportunity to do so is, in my opinion, very important. And now, last of all, the threat to the nation state that has been repeatedly spoken of here today and, in my opinion, completely out of context. The threat to the nation state comes from behind the eastern border. Putin's fine with us arguing about refugees. The fact that we understand that we are Ukraine's rear, that we are fulfilling our role and that we ensure that the Ukrainian people are treated with dignity here and that they are able to go back to rebuild their democratic state is now our task. It has been said that we must protect Estonia's interests. But it is in Estonia's interest that Ukraine wins, and we must play our part. This concerns certain legislative changes, including how we allow Ukrainian war refugees to enter the labour market and what kind of remuneration we pay them. In Estonia, wage poverty is huge anyway, both for our own people and for war refugees we need a living wage. In fact, we could stand for this in this Chamber, so that we do not create low-paid jobs that do not allow us to cope, treat war refugees equally, understand that our role in this war is, in fact, to support these people and ensure that they can go and build democratic Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U283	Thank you. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U284	Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U285	Three minutes extra time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U286	Yesterday, I was the one who asked a good colleague, Tõnis Möldri, about paragraph 47 of § 1 of this bill, concerning the differences in the legal basis for arriving in Estonia and the temporary stay in Estonia. Here is the same [frase]: "Because of the military conflict that began on February 24, 2022,... " We have now dealt with this very long and comprehensively, but I would still like to look at it. We can argue whether the military conflict in Ukraine started on 20 or 26 February 2014. For example, according to the definition of the Swedish Centre for Defence Studies, there is a military conflict when more than 1000 deaths occur on both sides, or even if there are more parties. Then an event is considered a military conflict. As you will remember, the Crimean annexation took place without violence, i.e. the Ukrainian armed forces did not resist in Crimea. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. Even then, when we look at what was going on in 2014, the Ukrainian troops started a counterattack, and finally hundreds of tanks and [other] combat vehicles were involved in the battles of Ilovaisk and Debaltsev on both sides, we may ask how these "separatists" were organised in this way. Where did all this military equipment come from? Even then, Russian armed forces intervened directly in this conflict. It was not some internal conflict in Ukraine from the beginning, but it was actually a conflict between Russia and Ukraine, which the Western countries actually refused to recognise as such. The war between Russia and Ukraine with a real name began already then. But, of course, what began on 24 February this year was a large-scale military assault, Russia and Belarus aggression against Ukraine. This is the correct definition that should be penetrating everywhere and should be written in this way. What is Russia's narrative? Russia's narrative is that there will be no war in Ukraine, a special operation. So there is no war between Russia and Ukraine. This is the official narrative of the Putin regime, which it has failed to sell either to Western countries or to the [other] world. There is no military conflict here. It cannot therefore be regarded as any kind of linguistic correction. If you go down this road to try to reduce this fundamental and substantive mistake to the fact that this is some kind of language expert, then this is completely the wrong approach. The tongue can't slip that much. And what else can I say: really, once the officials have prepared it and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has dealt with it, people have read it, I can see that people have not read it. I ask myself whether I am really the first person to read this bill carefully and find it. This definition should not have been included here. This is literally the Putin narrative, which he wants to impose on the whole world and which has not succeeded. But we're going to write it in here calmly. It can't be like this! I'm not really into other subjects, I've only taken one of those specific parts out of here. But if there was nothing else here, and this sentence alone would be the case here, then the second reading should be interrupted and corrected. You can't just leave it like that, you can't miss it or you can't reduce it to some kind of language correction. That's one reason. But there are a number of reasons why we're forced into this obstruction right now. Just as Ukraine did not want war, nor do we want this obstruction. I will take this opportunity to apologize immediately to technical staff and officials who will have to suffer it again, just as it was last spring. But I can say in this respect that coalition parties would do very well if they took this draft back because we have both the will and the ability to carry out this obstruction both in the first stage of this second reading and in the objecture until this draft does not reach the third reading. We're ready to do this. We do not want to do this, it is the most inappropriate time at all because of this war, but we are forced to do so, just as Ukraine is forced to wage a war, because this war has been forced upon it. The Russian side made a fundamental miscalculation when he went to this war in the first place. He committed this aggression, making it count that Ukraine has no will and no ability to fight. Well, you should have a picture of spring that we have both the will and the ability to move forward with this obstruction. I don't want to deal with it, but I'll take care of it. Finally, I would not like to end this by reaching extraordinary elections in this crisis situation due to total obstruction. We don't need that for anyone. Why, then, come up with something in the current situation, where we need to find consensus, not to seek out differences or to exploit this situation into something in which we do not have the slightest consensus at the moment. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U287	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U288	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Our Constitution states that the state of Estonia is created in the undying right of self-determination of the Estonian people and in order to preserve and preserve the Estonian language, culture and nation. This is the primary, direct and most important task of our country and our nation and of all the institutions of our country, which must be taken into account in all situations. Clear objectives must be set for this imperative to be implemented. Just as in the case of this draft, which the government has brought to us here: it must also have the objectives that are reflected in the above. But what are the objectives of this draft? These are very simple: to open the doors of the Estonian state to mass immigration. I am not only talking here about these poor Ukrainian refugees; they are not directly concerned. In fact, it concerns the rest of the world: Africa, Asia, the Middle East, whatever. This draft opens the doors, removes the last restrictions, removes the pay criteria. And what will be the result? The result is very simple. We know that we have 45,000 of our people out of work. If, for an unlimited and essentially unlimited period of time, migrant workers can come here, this means that our people will be even more deprived of their jobs, because, of course, they will employ low-paid migrant workers who will accept it. Unemployment is increasing, state expenditure increases from unemployment benefit to various social benefits. Another consequence is that wages are falling. Of course, we are already seeing today how low-cost labour is more likely to be used and how these war refugees will be exploited to employ them, paying them a lower salary. And you can already hear our own people being fired for that. In the long term, this means that we will become a state of cheap labour. Any initials and reasons for innovation, digitisation, automation, robotics, and so on, will disappear. Ultimately, we are lagging behind the technical development of the whole world. If it has been predicted that, thanks to these activities listed above, the need for human resources will be reduced by about half by 2050, then we are on a completely different path to the objective of this draft. It is precisely this cheapest, most primitive job that we are doing, and we remain dependent on incoming migrant labour, because they too are getting old, they are also going to retire and, as we see from statistics, the number of these children is significantly lower. And we are already, the Estonian people are very deep... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U289	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U290	...in a demographic crisis. Our birth rate is below the recovery level and now such a bomb is being brought to our feet that deepens our demographic crisis, destroys our Estonian-language culture and language space quite clearly and directly threatens our security, both internal and external. And all this is done for what? I see no other reason here than the one that has sounded in this Chamber before: the destruction of national statehood. It is entirely symptomatic that, just as the Reform Party and today's government do, the Social Democrats see no threat to our nationhood in this draft. And, as we can see, all this debate carries lies and demagoguery. Firstly, there has been no dialogue on this draft and its objectives. The government is lying that this is a draft of the previous government. But in fact, it's unfamiliarly distorted, converted, nothing left of it. Those lies are so cynical, I should say they're gonna be disgusting. And it's disgusting to look at people who spread such lies. On top of that, we're in a situation where we don't know how many war refugees can come to us. In addition to opening doors to all the world's foreign work, cheap labour, we already have more than 2 000 today, 30,000 tomorrow, perhaps soon 100,000 war refugees from Ukraine, who will make the situation worse because they too need housing and work. But what happens to the Estonian people, whether there is a job for us, whether there is bread for us, whether we have shelter for us, is not interested in today's government one gram. We can see how, in the shadow of this war, we are literally being tried to put into our heads every possible, namely our national statehood, our Estonian state and the bill that destroys the people. And when, at the beginning of today's government, I called it the black day of Estonian democracy, when the vote of the Reform Party and the Centre Party voted down the proposal of the then Riigikogu's board that no proposals or drafts that are against the sovereignty of Estonia, which is against the Estonian people and the state, are allowed to be brought into this hall, we have, unfortunately, another black day when our country and people are broken.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U291	Time, Henn!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U292	And since the Conservative People's Party of Estonia stands firm for the state and people of Estonia, we have proposed to interrupt further processing of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U293	Thank you. Please stay in time. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U294	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! Wednesday is, as we know, the day when the yellowest and most false news newspaper, called Eesti Ekspress, appears. I generally do not read the Estonian Express because it does not deserve it. But since I saw today on the news a title that, just as it revealed the terrible secrets of how Jüri Ratas negotiates with the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Fatherland to form an old-new government, I took this page on my way to this house today, opened up and I can tell you that two thirds of the story that was there is not true. Well, as was the case with the Estonian Express. But I was also attracted to the fact that someone named Eero Epner, who is a pathological EKRE hater, had written a gigantic long mammoth story about how Estonia is managed in a crisis situation behind the so-called scenes. Well, if you put all that suction on Kaja Kallas' address, there's a number coming out of it, linked to this bill. That number, if I remember correctly, was Taimar Peterkop, Secretary of State, who had given it out. It was that the government made calculations, calculations of how many people from Ukraine would receive. The number was 150,000. You heard right, that number was 150,000. It wasn't 10,000 or 15,000 or 1,500, it was 150,000. Consequently, all that has been lied to us here together about how, of course, we have to make an additional budget and, of course, we have to help everyone and, of course, so and so and in the middle of the three-way direction, the plan was actually clear a long time ago: to receive 150,000 people under the name of war refugees. And now we're getting to the bill that we're talking about right now, which I'm supposed to be the author of, just like me. Excuse me, my friends, this bill, which was drawn up under my leadership at the Ministry of the Interior, was a completely different bill. And the shame of Kaja Kallas, who is, of course, a professional liar from many lawyers, of course, cannot be expected to be anything else, who is a professional liar, who talks about how this is a previous government bill, Mart Helme worked out this bill. He's never ashamed. Shame is a completely atrophy in this person. And, of course, here we see very clearly the reform party's pattern of behaviour. This pattern of behaviour is as follows: massively bring cheap labour to Estonia under the name of war refugees and then point the finger at EKRE and Mart Helme and say, but they did. You! It's been screamed over and over again. You did it! No, we didn't. Made Kaja Kallas and his government. We have nothing to do with this bill. The way we put it is this: there was a piece of soup that was very delicious. The new coalition came as a result of the coup, poured out our soup, and replaced the soured slob. That's right, sour sluggish. And what is all this about? It's all about... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U295	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U296	The punch line's still coming. It's about what I've been seeing for long, long years. It is about having one party, the leading party of the current government, who pathologically hates Estonia as a nation state. Pathologically, Estonia hates Estonia as a nation state! Why is he doing this? But because it is precisely this party that is a sidekick of Putin and the Russian Empire. It's going back to VEB Fund time, I've seen VEB Fund documents. I can't tell you the details, of course, because I've signed it, it's all classified, but I've seen these documents. And there's a lot of names running through there that give a very firm assurance of what I'm saying right now. The Reform Party has been in the hands of Russian special services with VEB Fund funds, since VEB Fund funds, and has been in the hands of today's special services. But look what else has happened in the meantime. In the meantime, the older generation that used to launder these funds through R-Maintenance has grown older. A lot of them have left politics, some have died. And now it took a new generation to get hooked, too. Massive money laundering was used through Estonian banks, where both the Reform Party Minister of Finance and other ministers and, of course, the special services that were inextricably cooperating with the Reform Party had to turn a blind eye. And so we see how the Estonian nation state has been systematically broken down. There has been no regional policy, people have lost their jobs, people have moved out of Estonia, social cohesion has been falling apart, declassification, especially in rural areas, has been getting worse. The keel on the axis of the Estonian Russian population has been constantly driven and is still being driven by the government. So, what do we keep hearing here? Well, we hear all the time about Single Russia and Single Russia, our coalition partner. There is a need to divide society, and in the current crisis it is also necessary to find an enemy inside. And this inner enemy must be the Estonian Conservative People's Party. It was only when a reform party posted some bullshit talk about how Estonia needs to be finally deputised. Well, deputise, dear friends of the Reform Party! Break up and end the destruction of the Estonian state as a nation state. And in order to continue to bring us conflicts between Estonians, Russians and Ukrainians, you need to incriminate this draft and this draft to the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Naughty, disgusting, slippery, disgusting. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U297	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U298	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Yeah, a slippery and disgusting and cynical advance, I'd say for the bill. I brought along one such book, the Year of Migration and Citizenship Policy [report] 2021. I don't know, someone's been reading, really fat. Describes the situation at the time our government came out with it in 2020 and then, so to speak, it stopped on the shelf. Too much has been said here, and I'm not going to talk nuances. But I also brought a verbatim report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 13 October [session]. Very interesting reading. You might want to take a look at the consequences. And on 20 October 2020 [the vote] was held in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, which ended at 42:50. Then the Reform Party, the opposition back then, tried to reject it. And everything you said here in Kaja Kallas and Taavi's garment and... Very interesting reading right now. Jürgen Ligi, of course. But I'm not going to quote them here. I will tell you what the Head of the Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior said at the time [Ruth] Annus. Firstly, registration of short-term employment has increased by 30 times over the last five years. 30 times! In 2015, there were 1080 and 2020, before this bill, 32,000.30 times! And now I quote: "The structure of the Estonian economy has not changed enough to justify 30 times the labour needs. The Ministry of the Interior asked Eesti Pank to carry out an analysis of the reason for this. Eesti Pank [According to the fact that too little time has passed to carry out analyses of the cause and effect, but they agreed] that this is not an evolutionary process that could be logical in some way. " And this is it now. And it's not some politician, Mart Helme or somebody else, it's the head of the Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior. Two: mass layout. Only sectoral discipline will help, but it will simply not be accepted. Thirdly, learning mobility takes place more from countries at high risk of internal security. 3000 people were then present and these communities have increased by 50%, as well as the number of graduates in higher education, 51%. But I'm not going to quote those officials' stories at the time they were saying. About the politicians, they'll say anything. But what did Mart Helme say at the time in the Riigikogu on 20 October? What is our goal? So that cheap labour doesn't take away local work. The second is that it is not possible to exploit cheap labour to abuse competitive advantages so that we know who is coming here for what purpose and how long he is here. But if you look at this bill, it's real, someone said honey can, 70%. I said that if you urinate there, there's nothing you can do about that honey. This bill is actually supposed to get rid of him. And what's important? What matters is... [[Fixing papers.]] I'm sorry, I've been taking out all sorts of quotes here. What is important is that the content of this draft is... What else was said here? I can't find that sentence right now. I recall this legislative review last week, where the former President of the Supreme Court made a destructive assessment. And what did he say? He was talking about the constitutional connection of the drafts, but remember, in the case of a nation state, this is the same preamble sentence...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U299	Peter, there's an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U300	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U301	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U302	And it hasn't been accounted for. And that was last year's work, the work of the Riigikogu [the rule that it was not] looked at whether it was compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. This also applies perfectly to the current cluster pie. Great! And if you look at it again, I've been following a lot of publications all over the world over the last month. And what have I been watching? I've already told you a little bit that I've been watching what German newspapers have written. For example, what does Sabrücker Zeitung write about today? He writes, referring to the opinion of their Minister for the Interior. What's he saying? That, in fact, there in a million states, the daily arrival of war refugees has increased from 80 to 300, and that is the limit of their suffering. He says, at some point we have to tell people we're out of power. And it's causing big problems. And he also says that local Germans in Saarland somewhere far away are waiting for their kindergarten place for six months or more, but the war refugees are about to get it. And this is a story not of Estonia, but of Saarimaa, whose patience has been interrupted since every day comes to 300 [the refugees]. So when you come back to Estonia, yes, it is such a cynical approach. Helplessness, a war situation has been used to open the way to mass immigration, low-cost labour in its shadow. And it's cynical, extremely cynical in the background. By the way, quite recently I spoke to an entrepreneur. In passing, he said, "Hey, I've been busy here for days, I've got five slaves, one has a good ass. Hey, guys! But it's kind of... And I'm not gonna tell you how Tinder's supposed to be. So ultimately, as my penguin author has already proposed, this bill should be withdrawn or put on the shelf, and then there would be peace in the house. At this point, he's producing too much thick blood, and in this extremely critical situation, it's inconclusive to create it in this Chamber and even more generally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U303	Thank you. I don't think there's any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Tõnis, you have to sign up. Negotiations are closed, and now we are going to the revision of the amendments. Some of these have been submitted. Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U304	Mr President-in-Office, since this is literally an unconstitutional draft, which clearly affects the national interests of our country and nation, I would ask the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to put this proposal to the vote. And before that, ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U305	Got it. Let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U306	So, an honorable hardworking collective! We, the Conservative People's Party, are over. We will deal with Bill 241, we have come to the amendments and I will put the first amendment to the vote... I'm sorry! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U307	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Reform Party and the Centre Party! We're at the beginning of the big marathon right now. And it is always good for the judges to remember that it will be very difficult and very exhausting. Exactly the same thing happened to us in the spring of last year. I would like to know whether ladies and gentlemen are prepared for the extremely strenuous challenge that awaits us. But since the answer probably doesn't come, I wish you strength and health...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U308	Kalle! It's not procedural. Yeah, I can't answer that either. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U309	The amendment is supported by 44 delegates, 8 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Let's move on, Amendment 2. The amendment is tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken full account of it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U310	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. As this is an unconstitutional draft, I would also ask that this amendment be put to the vote and before this ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U311	Let's take a ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U312	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to deal with the amendments. We have come to the second amendment, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission, but which the Conservative People's Party Group has asked for to vote on. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U313	The amendment is supported by 47 delegates, one against and no abstentions. The proposal has been supported. Now we come to the third amendment, it is a minor mistake. Its author is the Social Democratic Party Group, the lead committee has ignored it. However, there has not been enough solidarity in the committee that it would have received more than one vote of support, so the proposal does not belong to the vote in the large hall in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. Henn Fieldace, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U314	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Our electronic system is obviously not operational because there was a vote against this line that was not actually given. I didn't. So I'm asking the technicians to check it out, and I'm asking the manager to take a break for that, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U315	Yes, and it is true that this vote has gone under the wrong name. But we are about to get to the fourth amendment, and I have the feeling that we are going to have a break, and then the technicians will definitely be working on it. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U316	But maybe the apparatus has saved the EKRE voting pattern, that it's usually red and that's how it works. Watch and check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U317	We're asking you to check it out. We can go to the fourth amendment. The author of this amendment is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U318	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. This is a flagrant draft against the Estonian state and national interests. And I ask you to put it to the vote first and then, of course, to the recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U319	Let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U320	Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue to work. I'm gonna put it to the vote now, so we should go to the fourth, okay? I am voting on the fourth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U321	The amendment is supported by 44 delegates, 3 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. The fifth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the lead committee, but the proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with § 106 (2) of our Rules of Procedure. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U322	I would have liked to have put it to the vote, but it turns out it doesn't. It is not very democratic, unfortunately, but it is our turn, and what can be done then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U323	There's nothing you can do. Let's move on to Amendment 6... Sorry, Toomas Järveja has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U324	Good manager, did you find out what was wrong? Does our voting system work well?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U325	The voting system works nicely. It was a mistake here that I did not know how to vote as the group said. Happens. Happens to the better. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the lead committee. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U326	I ask for this amendment to be put to the vote by the Conservative People's Party. Since this is a flagrant anti-constitutional bill, I would like to ask the good coalition partners for a ten-minute break before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U327	Ten-minute break. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U328	We will proceed with the processing of amendments. We are on the sixth amendment, by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and the Steering Committee has taken full account of this. I told you wrong before. So the lead committee has taken full account of this, but the EKRE Group has asked to vote on it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U329	The amendment is supported by 44 delegates, 5 against, no abstentions. The proposal has been supported. The seventh amendment, proposed by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the lead committee and is not subject to voting in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 8, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and fully respected by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U330	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I must continue to say that this is an unconstitutional draft and I ask that this amendment be put to the vote so that the members of the coalition parties can signal the government that, even if this draft is adopted, the closure will not end. Thank you. And ten minutes of recess, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U331	Before the break, Jürgen Ligil will have a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U332	I have a procedure, yes. How does the Constitution interpret this when the members of the Riigikogu, even the whole group, call the amendments grossly unconstitutional, but vote for them or abstain from voting against them? Is such conduct compatible with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U333	I'm not quite sure it's procedural. Yeah, it's not procedural. Henn From the Field Area is a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U334	From the same opera: since the draft is unconstitutional, everything is unconstitutional, and that is why we proposed an interruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U335	Yeah, I got it. Let's take a break. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U336	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the eighth amendment tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U337	The amendment was endorsed by 43 votes to 5, with 0 abstentions. We will move on to the ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and Sven Sester has also been presented separately, and this has been fully taken into account. Mr. Pier. It's completely accounted for.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U338	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Just as I have previously been forced to admit that this is an unconstitutional draft. And I ask you to put this bill to the vote and take ten minutes of recess before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U339	Mr. Pier, I need to be more specific. We cannot vote on the draft. [[A voice from the hall.]] We can put the draft to the vote, but then we will have to vote on all the amendments first, then we will also get to the draft. So we will vote on the amendment. Okay. You would like to vote on the amendment. And let me get this straight. Would you like to take a break? Got it. And there were ten minutes, right? Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U340	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the ninth amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group and Sven Sester. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U341	With the result of 39 votes against and 0 abstentions 1, the proposal was supported. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has taken full account of it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U342	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would ask for Amendment 10 to this draft unconstitutional to be put to the vote by the EKRE Group and to take a ten-minute break before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U343	Mr Põljaas, putting the amendment to the vote is enough to say that I wish to vote. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U344	The break requested by the Conservative People's Party Group has ended and I will put the tenth amendment to the vote. It is presented by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the lead committee has taken full account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U345	For 40, against 4, with 0 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 11, tabled by the lead committee, fully taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U346	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The Estonian Conservative People's Party is asking for the vote on Amendment 10 of this draft unconstitutional, and before that we would take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U347	Then we can go to the vote, because we have just processed the tenth amendment. Last warning, Mr. Pier! I'll vote next time without saying. All right, intermission ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U348	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 11, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U349	36 members of the Riigikogu support the proposal, 6 against, 0 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 12, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. This proposal shall not be subject to a vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 13, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U350	This is an unconstitutional draft, I would like to ask you to put this amendment to the vote and before that ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U351	Is the draft or amendment you tabled unconstitutional? [[They say something in the hall.]] Got it. Break ten minutes. [[They say something in the hall.]] Beauty is in the eye of the viewer. (It asks a procedural question.) Can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U352	Ladies and gentlemen, with a positive tone, we have reached Amendment 13 by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U353	The proposal was supported by 1 member of the Riigikogu, with 39. The proposal was not supported. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; it has not been taken into account by the commission and is not to be voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. The 15th amendment has been tabled by the commission and has been fully taken into account. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U354	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The Conservative People's Party requests that this amendment be put to the vote and that ten minutes' break be taken before the vote. And I repeat, this is an unconstitutional bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U355	Yeah. I understand the desire not to take a break, but similarly I often do not understand how the group does not support its own proposal. However, regardless of this, the Rules of Procedure provide an opportunity for the group to ask for this break. So break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U356	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 15, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U357	The proposal is supported by 41 votes against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 16, tabled by the lead committee and fully taken into account. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U358	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted on. And in terms of saving time, I'm asking for a break of 9 minutes and 30 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U359	Got it. Mr. Chef, do you have an alternative proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U360	Thank you. I still have a proposal to leave for ten minutes. So I'd like one more minute by the EKRE.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U361	Mr. Ligi has now come up with a procedural question. I can't decide that before I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U362	I have a question as to whether, in the interests of saving time, a break could be canceled at all. That's a better idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U363	However, the Rules of Procedure provide that the political groups are entitled to take a break for reflection. And since there were competitive proposals here, EKRE needs a little more time to think than the Fatherland, I have to meet the EKRE's wish to think for ten minutes. But, Helir, if you mean 9:30, it's okay. Mr. Hepner has a procedural situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U364	Thank you. I actually had a procedural question from Mr Near of this initiative that perhaps, in terms of time savings, the coalition could withdraw this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U365	It's not procedural. Between you and me, in ten minutes, you can discuss it calmly. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U366	Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on Amendment 16, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and taken fully into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U367	In favour of 36, there are no opposing parties and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Now Amendment 17, by the lead committee, has been fully taken into account. Rene Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U368	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to put this amendment to the vote and to take ten minutes of intermission before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U369	Got it. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U370	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 17, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the lead committee has taken full account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U371	With the result of 37 and against 4, the proposal was supported. Amendment 18, tabled by the Conservative People's Party Group, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U372	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that the amendment be put to the vote and that there be a ten-minute break before the amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U373	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U374	Ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that I vote on the 18th amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U375	The proposal is supported by 1 member of the Riigikogu, 36 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 19, tabled in favour of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has failed, and we cannot vote on that. Amendment 20, in favour of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has not been taken into account by the commission, and it is not voted in the same way in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Amendment 21, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, rejected by the Steering Committee. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U376	Thank you! On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote and, before doing so, that an intermission period of 10 minutes should be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U377	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U378	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 21, tabled by the EKRE Group, not counting the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U379	With the result of 0, against 37 and the abstentions 1, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 22, tabled by the EKRE Group, has been rejected by the commission. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U380	Thank you. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote and, before doing so, a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U381	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U382	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on Amendment 22. Its author is the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Steering Committee has not taken this into account, and the Conservative People's Party Group has asked to vote on it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U383	This proposal was supported precisely by 0 delegates, 39 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 23rd amendment, which I am sorry for, I have to propose glasses, is tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group, and Sven Sester has been a separate author of the same proposal. The commission took full account of it. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U384	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote and before 10 minutes of intermission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U385	Yeah, let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U386	We are at Amendment 23. Its author is a separate Social Democratic Party Group and a separate Sven Sester and the commission has taken full account of it, but the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party wishes to vote on it. So please take a stand and vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U387	The proposal is supported by 36 delegates, no votes against, no abstentions either. The proposal has been supported. The 24th amendment is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the commission has rejected it and the proposal cannot be put to the vote in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 25, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U388	Thank you. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote and, before doing so, that an intermission period of 10 minutes should be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U389	Let's take a break for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U390	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on Amendment 25. Its author is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it, and the EKRE Group has asked for it to be voted on. So please take a stand and vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U391	There are 42 ambassadors in favour of the proposal, one against it. The proposal was supported. Amendment 26, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has taken full account of this. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U392	Thank you! On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would ask that this amendment be put to the vote, and before that, I would like to ask for an intermission of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U393	Okay, ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U394	We are on to Amendment 26. Its author is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken full account of it, and the EKRE Group is asking for it to be voted on. So, ladies and gentlemen, please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U395	There are 34 delegates in favour of the amendment, one against, no abstentions. The amendment has been accepted. Amendment 27, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the commission and the proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The 28th amendment, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U396	Thank you! On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to put this amendment to the vote and ask for a ten-minute break before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U397	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U398	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on Amendment 28. Its author is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it, and the EKRE Group is asking for it to be voted on. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U399	The proposal is supported by 33 ambassadors, against 5. The proposal was supported. Amendment 29, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Steering Committee, has taken full account of this. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U400	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to put this amendment to the vote and, before that, I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U401	The Vice-Chairman takes a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U402	The 29th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee and has been asked by the EKRE Group to vote on it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U403	There are 37 delegates in favour of the proposal, 6 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The 30th amendment is now tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has failed and the proposal cannot be put to the vote either because it did not get enough votes in the committee. The amendments have thus been examined. Ah, there's a procedure on Tarmo Kruus Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U404	Yeah. Thank you, good vice chairman. With regard to point 30, I look at the dates of entry into force. He should have come into force by now. This paragraph 1 (8) would have entered into force on 1 May. If the Commission does not support this, I understand that this law will not enter into force at all. It's actually a pretty reasonable decision. Or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U405	Yeah, I guess that law's gonna come into force. I'm not gonna find it right now, but I'm guessing it's gonna come into effect in the general order if it's not shown out in any way. But we did not vote on this proposal. No, the law won't come into force, it won't happen, it won't be scared. Now... Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U406	Thank you, Mr President. I think the observation of Tarmo Kruusimäe is absolutely correct. The real question here is that, if we can't enforce it in general terms, then we can't go about it at all, so to speak. How is it possible to do this technically?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U407	I'll help you. We found the law's entry into force. Paragraph 1 (5) of this Act shall enter into force on 1 September 2022, paragraphs 2, 6, 17 and 32 of § 1 of this Act shall enter into force on 1 October of this year and paragraphs 1, 13, 14, 16, 19, 20, 22, 29, 31, 33, 34, 35 and 38 of § 1 of this Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. So, assuming we stop reading this law today and he gets to the third reading, and he's going to succeed, he's going to actually come into force. Riina Sikkut has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U408	Thank you, good manager. I just wanted to pay attention to the fact that, in addition to this aspect, the Socialist amendments, of course, are essentially sensible, perhaps in order to vote in the Chamber, a second vote could also have been given in the Commission. I'm just pointing out to the two previous questioners that maybe another vote should be given sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U409	Yeah. I'm sure that's the way to do it. This is usually preceded by a request from this group to the other group from which votes are sought. But there's a procedure on Tarmo Kruus Hill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U410	Thank you, good vice chairman. This date of entry into force, which you said, September of this year, October of this year, I have the feeling that the Commission's waitress threw us out of the villa in this Chamber because she was always telling us that in a few months these war refugees would go back. This law is what we have been doing so that we should not at least do anything if the forecast or knowledge is such in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that they will be gone in a few months' time, but we have just shown good will. Isn't it perhaps vile for these people to be urgent in several months?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U411	Thank you. Well, it's not procedural. The procedure is this... This is the subject of negotiations and negotiations are closed. This is a substantive political debate, if soon or when it is necessary. However, I would now like to proceed with the procedures. The commission has proposed to stop the second reading of the draft, but the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of Isamaa have both proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft 241. And this cut-off proposal we have to vote on. Well, then we're going to vote right now... Rene Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U412	Thank you. (It is called out of the hall: "It is not fair! ") It's very honest. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U413	Let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U414	Ladies and gentlemen, We will vote on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa to interrupt the second reading of draft 241. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U415	Nineteen ambassadors are in favour of the interruption, 42 against it. The proposal was not supported and the second reading has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U416	Let's move on to our agenda. We are ahead of the third reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The lead committee has proposed its final vote, but before that negotiations can be opened where representatives of the political groups can take the floor. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U417	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We have now come to this debate on the first Wednesday item. This Wednesday will pass smoothly on Thursday and we will work all night, showing how diligent and well we stand for all the things that we must stand for. This is an amendment to the Tax Administration Act (the provision of construction data) and an amendment to the Income Tax Act. If we look at this, it is as if this topic concerns the area of construction, where there are records of data and other provisions on how the work chain and work duration database work. It is considered to perform the duties assigned by law to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and the Labour Inspectorate in order to ensure that the Police and Border Guard Board carries out national supervision of the temporary stay, residence and employment of foreigners in Estonia. Of course, monitoring must be carried out, because we know very well what our situation in the construction sector is and how many people we have working blackly there. Actually, we don't know that. We also do not know how much temporary agency workers we have from other countries of the European Union, because there is no control over it. Naturally, controls must be introduced to reduce this black sector, especially in the construction sector. As a result, operators are obliged to fix, record their entry into and exit from the construction site. Of course, it is highly debatable how large a company must be subject to such fixations and electronic fixations. There's no doubt there's been an excess of this in this law. After all, all of this can be explained and considered reasonable. But now we come to paragraph 2 of the amendments, and that is truly surprising. This is the most authentic example of bad lawmaking practice when one law is added to things that are absolutely non-existent. Absolutely the second topic, absolutely the second area. The fact that the government dares to come before the Riigikogu with such a mercenary is simply a disgrace. Now, when we look at what we are talking about, the content of this point is also extremely astonishing. There is a war in Ukraine, a full-scale war, a Russian aggressor kills and murders a peaceful civilian population, women, children and elderly people. Under international law, crime is committed against humanity, for which not only those who have committed these crimes, murders, genocide directly, but also those who have ordered and ordered it, and who will do so. It is only natural that we have chosen a side in this war. We have chosen the right side; we support Ukraine. We've been...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U418	Henn, do you need more time? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U419	We have been among the greatest supporters in this regard. First of all, we gave gun help first. Also in terms of ratios, given our population, we have also provided financial assistance. And we have received war refugees to the greatest extent in terms of ratios. The entire Estonian people have been eager to support Ukraine, to support its people, to support the Ukrainian state, to support their armies in this fight against the aggressor. The Estonian state has taken income tax on every cent that our people and companies have donated. It is very just and very right indeed not to take full advantage of this aid to Ukraine, to these people, so that we ourselves are not those who take advantage of it. Yet we see how the government presents only seven instead of dozens and dozens and dozens of NGOs, foundations and other organisations that could be added to that list. And when we look at who they are, there's really no reason why only seven were chosen. We know that a number of these organisations were also tabled as amendments, including the Defence League, and so on, who would be happy to help. But no, today's government wants to peel everything off. And the choice that's here really makes you wonder. Estonian Refugee Fund NGO, the first one who has not actually transferred this money. Of the more than three million that they have collected from the people, only a million have gone to Ukraine. They're working on sending dozens of buses after people to bring them here, and that's all their help. We also talked for a long time about the consequences of the previous draft. Because these people must be given housing, food, health insurance, day-care centres, school places, and as our society, they will not be able to do so if there is no control over it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So actually this list is, by looking at our Estonia's capacity...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U420	Time, Henn!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U421	... completely irresponsible. Therefore, our draft, where one law has been planted like a pig on a saddle, does not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U422	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U423	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Surely the bill we are discussing is designed, on the one hand, to eliminate the envelope wage. However, as we heard in the Chamber during the second reading, in reality this draft has happened in a situation where construction companies have also gone into two pages: those who support it in the way that we currently have it in the third reading, and others who say that in reality, as a result of this draft, the probability of losing an envelope salary is very low. I must admit that I also believe that, as a result of this draft, what the government and the tax administration wanted is unlikely to happen. But there was an important area added to this draft. Thanks to the provision by the Fatherland of a supplement to the Income Tax Act, which provides that a legal person does not pay income tax in support of the freedom struggle in Ukraine, as well as in support of war refugees, humanitarian aid in Ukraine and donations and gifts in support of the reconstruction of Ukraine, when donations have been made to an account to be appointed by the Government of the Republic until 24 February 2023. The purpose of Isamaa is to support all donors equally, but only specific associations are mentioned in the draft of the Ministry of Finance: NGO Estonian Refugee Council, NGO Mondo, Ukrainian Cultural Centre, National Defence Promotion Foundation, Estonian Red Cross, Salvation League and Rotary Club Tallinn Old Town. Their gifts and donations for specific purposes are exempt from tax. It is explained that changes will only be introduced to the donation and gift made to Ukraine, and I would stress: to the donation and gift made to Ukraine, as it is not necessary to extend the range of beneficiary countries, taking into account the situation at the time of drafting. But it is not written in here that these donations can also be made in Estonia. In fact, the aid is now going to Estonia, although it is being debated, but it is explicitly written "Ukrainian" and not "Estonia" or "Ukrainians." The war is not over. The need to make donations may remain valid for a long time. If the state of Estonia remains to tax this activity, it does not speak exactly the language and mind of our values that we want to carry. Not to mention that this directly affects the willingness of Estonian people and entrepreneurs to continue to make donations. Today, we congratulate all those who have supported and donated, but the tax credit for the wider group would have given the opportunity to support even more. Many people and entrepreneurs in Estonia have supported Ukraine, but the distinctions have been made only for grants from the listed organisations. In this way, it is about deceiving people who have donated hundreds of thousands of euros directly to the Central Bank of Ukraine or to the people there. I believe that the Estonian state should be coherent in its words and actions, and the Riigikogu, as legislator, has the opportunity to create this coherence. To this end, the draft submitted by the Fatherland Party should be processed and passed by law. This would actually lead to a promise to exempt donations made to Ukraine from income tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U424	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote on a draft of 506. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U425	On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U426	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U427	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the EKRE Group has ended. I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Tax Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending the Income Tax Act 506. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U428	The bill supports 50 ambassadors, 12 against. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U429	Let's keep working on the agenda. The next item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of an Estonian representative to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 545. This is a first reading. The rapporteur shall be Andrei Korobeinik, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U430	Okay. Good chairman of the sitting!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U431	Wait, Andrei! I understand it's time for the evening, and people are talkative, but let's make it possible to process the laws in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U432	This is a very important draft and I believe that the questions will come. 545 OE is the decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing an Estonian representative to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee." The draft was launched by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 8 March and discussed at its meeting on 14 March. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary session on Wednesday 23 March and to hold a final vote. The proposal in this draft is as follows: from 1 June 2022 to 31 May 2024 appoint Aivar Kokk, Deputy Chairman of the Financial Commission of the Riigikogu, as the representative of Estonia on the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee. That is the Commission's proposal. That's all for me. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U433	Yeah. Heiki Hepner has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U434	Thank you very much. How does the waitress feel about how the strength of our delegation will change after such a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U435	I don't think that's gonna change, because the previous representative was also Aivar Chef. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U436	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U437	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You said you'd be happy to answer the questions, so I'd be happy to hear the answers. The fact is that this draft was initiated on the basis of Article 2 (3) of the Treaty on the Nordic Investment Bank and the Act on the ratification of the Payment Agreement of the Republic of Estonia and the Nordic Investment Bank and the aforementioned Articles of Association of the Investment Bank. I am absolutely convinced that you discussed these details thoroughly in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Perhaps you could shed some light on what was contained in Article 2 (3) of the Nordic Investment Bank Act on the ratification of the payment agreement so that we too can get an overview of what you discussed there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U438	Thank you. We have not discussed this at the Commission's meeting, but it may take 10 minutes to recess before the final vote and get acquainted with this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U439	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U440	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, where we discussed the appointment of a representative, I asked that, as we know from the public information provided by the Nordic Investment Bank, no aid programmes or aid projects have been carried out for Ukraine, while other banks, where the Member States of the European Union or the Nordic countries are partners, are actively involved in Ukraine's support projects. Has the situation changed for today? Perhaps the investment bank has taken steps towards Ukraine? If not, could the Committee on Monetary Affairs now give Aivar Koka some kind of guidance with a freshly renewed mandate to move towards Ukraine too?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U441	Thank you. Our representative, Aivar Kokk, answered this question and said that there really is no such programme. Has the situation changed? That's probably the best thing he knows. Undoubtedly now, of course, when a large hall gives it a kerb, it will probably also be able to pass on the recommendations of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I believe he is undoubtedly with great experience and a large network of contacts, so he will pay his word.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U442	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U443	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! It was, of course, very kind of you that we could get to know the sections that Kalle Grünthal read for ourselves. But my question: for what reasons have you not yourself been familiar with these paragraphs?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U444	Thank you. I am here as a Commission waitress and I will tell you exactly what happened in the Commission. That's how it works. In addition to the paragraphs, you can also examine our rules of procedure, which provide for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U445	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U446	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Is this mandate fixed-term, or why do we have to deal with such a bill at all? If the Chef hasn't changed, we're left to be represented, and the content doesn't change, then why is the bill in this big hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U447	Thank you. Well, whether the Chef has changed or not, we did not discuss that in the Commission. But indeed, it is a term mandate. And this mandate, as I have already mentioned, if the Riigikogu makes a positive decision, will take effect from 1 June 2022 and will be valid until 31 May 2024. After that, you can choose Aivari again or someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U448	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U449	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said you were in the remote to tell us what was going on in the committee. Unfortunately, you didn't, you only read the decisions. And now I would ask you to give me an overview of what happened in the Commission. Who said what, who asked what, and what was said to them? I would ask for such a more detailed overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U450	Thank you. Unfortunately, there's no turning back time, and my review is exactly what I gave you. One question was, for example, why I am proposing Aivari as a candidate. At all, this debate was quite short, decisive and constructive. By the end of the day, everyone agreed with this candidate. The decisions of the dates have not given rise to a very lively debate either. So, in general, I passed on what happened in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U451	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U452	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! The candidacy of Aivar Koka is undoubtedly very good, and we will definitely all support it. But I'm just asking what kind of generosity, because it's usually been a place to fill the chairman of the committee. Aivar is certainly a very good person there, and we certainly support it. But why the generosity from the coalition ambassadors to allow Aivar to continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U453	Thank you. That was my proposal. Indeed, Aivar also has the experience of the chairman of the committee and has already carried out this task in the past. I expect that in today's situation it will be quite useful if the last year before the elections, our representative is a person who knows his colleagues there, and I think his work may be more active this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U454	Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U455	Thank you, Mr President. I have this concern that the rapporteur, good Andrei, did not attend this committee meeting or did not look at what was happening there at all. The question at the moment is that when I asked a question about what was discussed there about the agreement on the Nordic Investment Bank and the ratification of the payment agreement of the Republic of Estonia and the Nordic Investment Bank in § 2 (3), good Andrei said that this section was not looked at there and we can then look somewhere else. But the question is that the explanatory memorandum contains a specific reference to the same paragraph of § 2 (3). This is where I have the question, Mr President: if Mr Korobeinik said that this paragraph was not discussed in this committee sitting, why is he even talking about it ahead? Because there's a specific reference to it in the explanatory memorandum. Then essentially there was no debate. How can we deal with this draft if there are no reliable data on the activities of this committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U456	I think you heard a little bit wrong, I don't think he said exactly that. However, this Article 2 (3) of the Ratification Act is mentioned here, both in the explanatory memorandum and in the draft. Just because a person comes here as a Commission waitress doesn't mean he was supposed to be in a meeting. It's enough for him to have a record and a review. The committee made its own procedural decision and that's it. And the rapporteur has also repeatedly said that it was not at all a long debate in the Commission. I think he's been sharing a lot of information with us right now. I must say that, in accordance with § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, we can allow every member of the Riigikogu only one question on this agenda, so I cannot give Tarmo Kruusimäe any more opportunity to ask. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Andrei Korobeinik! And let's go to the negotiations, that's right. Now don't all want to rush the remote! Nobody says they want to negotiate, I'm closing the negotiations. There were no amendments to the draft, so we cannot vote on them, but the commission has proposed a final vote on the draft 545. And this final vote... Uh-huh. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U457	Thank you, good vice chairman. As we have already done today, let us also take a ten-minute break before going to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U458	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U459	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the break is over and we have come to the proposal of the commission for the final vote on the draft 545. Therefore, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of an Estonian representative to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 545. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U460	The draft has been adopted by 45 votes to 0, with 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U461	Our fourth item today is the amendment of the Riigikogu decision "Constitution of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation" by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 547. Mr. Valdo Randpere, member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U462	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Good TV viewers! All of you waiting for a long show now, you'll be disappointed. Unfortunately, our time is so close that I will not be able to talk long about how you posted Oudekki Loonet as Chairman of the NATO Parliamentary Delegation in 2019. All present-day great nationalists, patriots, Estonian defenceists, except Mikhail Lotman, who voted against, except Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits, who did not vote, and with the exception of Henn Põljaas, who probably forgot to vote, because she sat and led the hearing. The rest of you were all for it. Now we're gonna fix this. The Central Party Group sent a letter to the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 28 February and asked the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to present the Chair of the Delegation in place of Marko Šorini Oudekki Loone. And also send Oudek to space. So the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this issue in two sessions. At our first meeting on 8 March, we initiated the draft and on 14 March we decided to take procedural decisions. In their course, it was decided that I could report it here. And basically, I turned down what we decided then. We call off Oudekki Loone from the chairman of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and put Marko Šorin there. A very dignified exchange, with all my heart. I hope you do too. Questions... Oh, my God, there are even questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U463	No, it's not the Lord, it's Jürgen Ligi and Tarmo Kruusimäe. [[Laughing.]] Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U464	Thank you. First of all, I have to tell you that fawning in front of a television watcher is a very bad habit. The next questioner from me, leave it to him, it's extremely bad, and it's also ridiculous. But why did this shift take so hard and take so long? Marko Šorin is a worthy candidate. The current member of the delegation has once again warned against giving weapons to Ukraine; he has said that they will shoot the Russians and other things. Was it very difficult, or was there a consensus in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U465	He must have gone hard in the sense that it took more than two years. Although from the moment the war started in Ukraine in full, and the Russians attacked Ukraine on 24 February, it took four days. And to be honest, the vote that Oudek did not support took us four days to decide that he would not fit in. In fact, it could have been foreseen two years ago, because even then it was... I gave a speech myself, but the questions were all clear and the people knew his views. But the respectable Enn Eesmaa, who then made a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, expressed the hope that people's views would change over the years. No, it didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U466	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U467	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Well, there's no reason to snap. After all, you didn't propose, you were actually okay with the person you replaced. Or have I misunderstood something? Rather we go to the content, I would like to ask you if you could say who you had there at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, what the discussions were and what the other candidates were. Personally, I know Marko Šorin very well. We're kind of comrades. But let it stay.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U468	Good Tarmo! Really, there's no reason to snap. Even when it came to the Committee on Foreign Affairs in 2019, a very large part of the Committee on Foreign Affairs opposed it. This was one of the first cases, if not the first, when there was no consensus in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to appoint one person as head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. It doesn't happen very often, I think it was the first time, maybe the only one, and hopefully it will. But our committee meetings were basically attended by the whole Commission. At the meeting on 8 March, when the draft was initiated, Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, Reuben Kaalep, Eerik-Niles Kross, Anneli Ott, Henn Põlluaas, Valdo Randpere, Mailis Reps, Indrek Saar, Priit Sibul, who was Mikhail Lotman's alternate member, and Raivo Tamm took part. The decisions were taken by consensus. Ruuben Kaalep, Tarmo Kruusimäe, alternate Raivo Tamme, Mikhail Lotman, Anneli Ott, Henn Põlluaas, Valdo Randpere, Mailis Reps and Indrek Saar took part in the meeting on 14 March. Once again, the decision was taken in consensus and it was decided that I will report this draft to you here today. Thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U469	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U470	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Well, Valdo, you're a funny man. That was an impressive presentation you started. But I have a question. Because I saw him go before Oudekk, and you indicated that he was being sent to space, did he set off? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U471	This question, I will be honest with you, was not discussed by the Commission on 8 March or 4 March, which Oudekki will do on 23 March. But basically this letter sent by the Centre Party ends this way: Marko Šorin Oudekki Loone to replace NATO and a member of the delegation of the European Interparliamentary Conference on Space as a representative of the Oudekki Loone Estonian Central Party Group. This bill gets here I don't know when, but one day he'll make it. Although there, in fact, the Committee on Foreign Affairs also asked the Centre Party to reconsider whether we really want to send such a person into space. The Centre Party thought, came back a week later and said, "Yes, this person is fine."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U472	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U473	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Valdo! I understand that the real reason was not Oudek's incompatibility with the NATO delegation, but that there was no free ticket to be sent to space now. Because you couldn't make that decision in a year or come up with that decision. I get it, now it turns out that all the tickets to space were sold out in the meantime, and now the first free pass came out, it kind of got sent away. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U474	Thank you. This issue was not discussed again by the Commission. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U475	No further questions. Thank you! It is now the case that there are no amendments to this draft. But before we go to the proposal of the lead committee, it is time for negotiations. Rene Chef, would you like to participate in the negotiations? No, I don't. Then there are no requests for words in the negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Now René Chef would like a word.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U476	Thank you very much. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask for an intermission of 10 minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U477	Got it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U478	Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over. Let's get to the vote. I am voting on the amendment of the draft "Constitution of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation" submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, by number 547. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U479	With the result of 50 votes against and no abstentions, the decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U480	Let us move on to our fifth item on the agenda. On this fifth item, I have such an announcement to you that we have received a letter from the Minister for Social Protection that, unfortunately, he cannot come before us and asks for the debate on this point to be postponed. Consequently, and in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act, this is an impossible debate and we cannot discuss this point. The sixth item on the agenda is... Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U481	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'm sure we were looking forward to this presentation, and we were very interested in it, because when we read this introduction, we found interesting things here. For example, the Minister of Social Protection claims that the Estonian people are a growing nation, and the next line says that Estonia's population is shrinking, so many interesting things are found here. But now, to our disappointment, the good minister is not going to come before us. Did he explain why? The entire Riigikogu has gathered here to wait for him and listen to his speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U482	Thank you for that question. The Minister says that, unfortunately, due to the change in the agenda, he cannot come. I'm sure he wants to come in front of us, ask the board to find and set a new date so he can report. That's what he says. So I'm sure he'll come to us. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U483	Good manager! I'm deeply disappointed. I would have left this house right now, but I was expecting the Minister to arrive. And now he just blew us off, and he didn't tell us why. I mean, we knew exactly what it was. Wouldn't it be possible to bring him here now? We were discussing, remember, the Secretary of Defense Laane could still be here right now. Maybe we could invite dear Kalle here as a replacement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U484	Thank you for that question. True, the name of the Minister for Social Protection also includes the "Minister for Defence," but he is still the Minister for Social Protection. And our Rules of Procedure provide that if there is no rapporteur, it is impossible to discuss the draft in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U485	Thank you, good vice chairman. You said today at the beginning of the sitting that the Bureau is doing a good job, and once the Bureau has done a good job and put together the agenda, everything fits, there are no mistakes, as happened here for foreigners and other laws. But what the opposition said: would we be able to listen to the Kalle Laanet report, which is similar in title but with different content? If we do not have the two ministers' reports now, that means that on 4 April we will have three presentations in one week, because otherwise there will be a big autumn and then there will be the reports that have been carried out in 2022. Right now, we're just reading what we're going to do. Doesn't this time frame get tight?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U486	Thank you for your question. Kalle Laane is scheduled for our agenda tomorrow, and I believe you can listen to Kalle Laanet tomorrow. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U487	I'll keep asking, good manager. The style that one of the defence ministers doesn't want to come here, the Minister for Social Protection, is it a good tone when he announces at the last minute that he doesn't have time? What's he doing? Is he sleeping right now? Is that a good tone? We wait, personally, I waited a long time for him to come here, and now he says chew the grass. Is that a good style?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U488	Good colleague Ernits! I don't think this style is good either if we use these expressions in this hall to chew the lawn or something. But it's really hard for me to comment on the appearance or lack of appearance of one person or another here. I can say what's in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure Act says that if there is no rapporteur, the debate is impossible. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U489	Thank you, Mr President. Which point of the Rules of Procedure prohibits the replacement of the Minister? I am in the Committee on Social Affairs, we have discussed this subject, this material is readily available. It's not long either, I can read it out, and we can do it calmly here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U490	Thank you. You're not a member of the government. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U491	Thank you, Mr President. I also need to say a few words in advance as to why I am asking this procedural question. In August last year, the festival "Young People of the Angels" was held in Paide, for the elderly. And that's where Signe Riisalo and I both debated and discovered that there were some shortcomings in the care of the elderly. And, of course, I advertised to the so-called older generation the Minister's presentation today, and they all expect it now. I've been asked why he's still not coming. Would it be possible, Mr President, to have a specific answer which he cannot come for reasons or reasons? Most elderly people are currently watching and watching TVs, and it would still be good to provide specific information on the cause. Because it is not just them, actually the Riigikogu, as far as we are concerned, that the Minister is also waiting for us. We want to know why he still can't come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U492	Thank you. I told you of the reason that he informed you that [he cannot come] due to a significant change in the Riigikogu agenda. But as he writes in his letter, he promises that he will certainly come when the board sets a new date so that he can make this presentation. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U493	Good manager! Lately, it has been mentioned that also Russian defence...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U494	I'm sorry, the mike's gone. I need it back to Mr. Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U495	Yeah, yeah, I got a loud voice, too. Lately, there's been a rumor that the Russian Secretary of Defense, Shoigu, has disappeared. And now that I hear that our Minister for Social Protection has disappeared, the question arises as to whether it has anything to do with the disappearance of the defence ministers of the two neighbouring countries. And another thing: when did the Social Protection Minister announce that he wouldn't show up here today? Right now or at the beginning of the hearing? What time did he announce it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U496	Thank you for that question. On the first side, these two things, as far as I know, have nothing to do with them. But Signe Riisalo's letter came in 21.42. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U497	Thank you, President-in-Office. You mentioned that the Minister for Social Protection is ready to come when the Bureau finds the right time. I think this is quite the time now, in fact, because 101 members of the Riigikogu are eagerly waiting for him. I have a proposition for you that maybe you could take a break and call the board. I know the Chairman of the Riigikogu is away, but two vice-chairmen can also handle this issue nicely. Perhaps you decide that the Minister for Social Protection still respects us with his presence. I can suggest that I personally go to pick him up with my car and give him this help and bring him here so we can hear and debate this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U498	Thank you for this proposal. As I said, the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure regulate quite precisely how we work here. And one point clearly states that if there is no rapporteur, this is an impossible debate. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U499	Thank you, Mr President. In cooperation with a good colleague, Peter Ernits, we learned that this letter of rejection came from 21.42. Let me get this straight. What else could be the reason he can't come? As far as I know, there are no extraordinary government sessions where he should be on a so-called outing. There is no other emergency situation. The Riigikogu and also the elderly still want to know the specific reason why it cannot come. Is the minister just tired? Then I'll even understand him, but he could let me know I'm not gonna make it tonight, and I'm not coming tonight. But just this reply, without giving reasons, is not correct in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U500	Thank you. Well, basically, purely formal, it would have been that if the minister hadn't informed us, I would have declared him, and he wouldn't have been here, then we would have had the same situation that would have been impossible to discuss. Purely because of our Rules of Procedure, we have no difference as to what is a particular reason. We know we don't have a waitress today. We also know that the Minister has informed us that he wishes to come before us when the Bureau sets a new date. That's it. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U501	Good manager! Glad to hear the Secretary of Defense announced that he couldn't come here. But still, how... That is now a purely procedural question. Is it that the minister can send a message at any time of the day that he does not have the time and not explain why he does not have the time to meet the employer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U502	Thank you. In principle, it is true in the Rules of Procedure that if there is no rapporteur, the [point] cannot be discussed. There may be many of these reasons. We have had cases in the past where we have had to leave the subject open because, for example, the Minister has boarded the plane. Things like that sometimes happen. Leaving aside all the reasons, the Rules of Procedure provide, in principle, that if there is no rapporteur, this debate will be cancelled and we will appoint a new date for this debate in the Bureau for the next working week. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U503	Thank you, good vice chairman. Not to the next one, but to the next one, because we have [in front] a week without sitting. But I want to say for the sake of the verbatim: everyone who has seen our discussions on Monday [knows] that the opposition said that we could still deal with [this format] as an important national issue, where ambassadors would also have the opportunity to say their opinions and ask questions. That's for sure. These discussions also gave rise to the idea of whether the Monday day could not be limited in time. And on Monday, we voiced a protest against the fact that one week there will be two [reviews] of the implementation of the development strategy "Estonia 2035." That's my question. Perhaps you can now make your own assessment of whether the board of directors was premature in making decisions, and is [a good] solution proposed by the opposition that Monday as such could still be to answer questions? In that case, this 'Strategy 2035' could be better suited to it, and voters would also be prepared to ask questions on that date, and then one minister will come to present this strategy as well. I'm just asking you. I hope that we now have this week's experience that the Bureau too optimisticly drew up this weekly schedule. I think that may be one of the reasons why the Minister is unable to participate here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U504	Thank you. First of all, the President states that the President said very correctly and correctly: in the next working week. The next working week of the Riigikogu is the next week. So it was perfectly correct. Let this be said for the sake of the accuracy of the fact. When putting together this week's agenda, the Bureau was aware that the Government of the Republic was in Ida-Virumaa on Monday and Tuesday, so we could not discuss the topics and enquiries on Monday, where it would have been necessary for ministers to be present. So that was the reason for putting this agenda together. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U505	Good manager! On the disappearance of this Minister for Defence: now I heard from the President that he was suddenly flying somewhere. A moment ago, we heard from Mr Randper that Mr Oudekki Loone was sent to space. Is it true that the Minister is flying somewhere right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U506	Mr. Ernits, I did not say that the Minister of Social Protection was flying somewhere. I said that we have had cases in the past where the Minister has had to fly somewhere and, consequently, we have not been able to discuss a few points. I didn't say the Social Protection Minister was flying anywhere right now. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U507	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I remember when I was the chairman of the Riigikogu and Kaja Kallas was the new prime minister, we had such a story that when the Riigikogu wanted to get the Prime Minister here before us to give an overview of the coronal situation, just as Stalin disappeared for three days at the beginning of the great war, the Prime Minister disappeared. Then you contributed to the search for the Prime Minister. You personally called him, he didn't answer my phone. I have a request, maybe you'll take a break and try to contact our missing Social Protection Minister. Is there anything serious and how long will he be gone and not come to the Riigikogu? And maybe you'll invite him on behalf of all of us to come here today and organise this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U508	Thank you. I have no reason to doubt that the Minister will not be able to come today if it still needs further information. And I can see that we still have a lot of things on the agenda if we try to process them. But first we need to go through the procedure. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U509	Thank you! I would like to give you an example of a life like this right now. We all remember this time from school, where at other times the parent wrote the following message in the journal of the student, son or daughter: my son or daughter is absent from school for domestic reasons. And it worked. I very much congratulate Siim Kallas now in the sense that a similar thing happened in the Committee on European Union Affairs, just not to appear, Mr Jaan, Minister of the Interior. And Siim Kallas wouldn't let this thing go through like this. Those chancellors or councillors who they were there also said at the beginning that he couldn't come, he was staying somewhere else. But Siim Kallas was so good that he pushed this thing through and said that we had to get the answer where he was. That's the answer at last. So, with your good colleague, your party partner, I think we should do the same thing. The answer should come. Because there are 101 members of the Riigikogu and just say that I can't come up with a reason for this house.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U510	Thank you. This answer does not change anything significantly from the point of view of our Rules of Procedure. If there is no rapporteur, it is impossible to discuss the rules of procedure. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U511	Good manager! We have a long night ahead of us and eyes shine on everyone, but in protocol: how do we formulate it if employers are waiting for an employee and the employee doesn't even know why he doesn't report to the employers? That was the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U512	It wasn't a procedural question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U513	Thank you, good vice chairman. I've got a little... Maybe you understand me, people have difficult moments that not all people need to know well about. But we should have a meeting with the Minister for Social Protection at 8:30 tomorrow in the group. Is that certain at this point or is it not? Just try to give a little hint whether he's in line or not in line. You probably don't know this, but maybe from the information you have, you can tell me if I should be here at 8:30 or I could prepare for the 10:00 session.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U514	Well, if you have a group meeting, go ahead. [[There's something going on in the hall.]] Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U515	You referred to this fact, which was based on the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu: that our Rules of Procedure provide that if the Minister does not appear, he simply does not appear. However, since today there has been a very serious question in this Chamber, which is why the Minister is not coming, and is not regulated by our law on home and working procedures, I would like to point out to our Rules of Procedure [of Procedure] § 13 (2) and 18 that, when it comes to a procedural question that is not governed by this law or by any other law, the Bureau must resolve this issue. Perhaps you should summarise the board now and discuss the procedure in which the Riigikogu requires the minister to reject it. I think that this is a very important issue which [solving] has been assigned to you by the same § 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U516	Thank you. This is where you interpret the Rules of Procedure a little too widely. At the moment, we are dealing with the impossible to discuss. Mr. Onions!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U517	Thank you. I don't know how to write and line these paragraphs up like a good colleague, Grünthal, but in my time there was a television show called "Looking for you." I wonder if we can't ask them for help. They were looking for relatives. I haven't seen these shows, but I saw the show where Minister Riisalo's people went home and found out it was his home. Mart Root could be approached right now. Maybe he knows where Riisalo is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U518	Thank you for these exciting proposals. There are no further procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U519	We will proceed with the sixth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the organisation of the energy economy initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 382. The presentation should be made by Kristen Michal, Chairman of the Economic Commission. [[There's a comment in the hall.]] Was it? I don't see Mr. Michal. I don't see Mr. Michal. Mr. Onions!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U520	Quite seriously, Mr Vice-Chairman, I ran into Mrs Akkermann and Kristen Michal at lunch, when there was a debate that I didn't know if I should take these things out of the agenda when the EKRE starts pimping. So what happens then? And then there was a firm conviction that we had to endure, do it, so Kristen would definitely be somewhere. Let's wait, let's give him some time, he'll make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U521	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U522	Good manager! Now that our Minister for Social Protection has disappeared and my colleague Michal, have they disappeared together?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U523	I owe you an answer. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U524	Thank you very much, Mr President. I bumped into a good colleague Michal a few moments ago on the hallway in a good way, and I asked him where he was in a hurry. He said he'd go through his room once, maybe he'll let you sleep lightly. He was convinced that the Minister of Social Protection was in this Chamber, but for him this presentation is not very exciting, he has already received this information. Maybe he should send a messenger to the door, knocking a little harder. Maybe he's really drowned and should wake him up so he can still come to this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U525	[[Sighs.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U526	In fact, it is entirely within the power of the President of the sitting. I understand that I, an ordinary member of the Riigikogu, cannot influence this process here, but it is possible for a good chair to take five minutes or ten minutes of break, depending on how hard my colleague Michal sleeps to get him to wake up. Because I'm serious, so he answered me, I'm not fantasizing here in any way, just like perhaps my colleague Randpere, who sent our colleagues to the moon here in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U527	Hey, there's no waitress. The rules of procedure say that if there is no waitress, the debate is impossible. I'm going to point seven.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U528	Seventhly, we have planned the amendment of the building code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws in draft 430. And here is Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission. He's not here. Then the next, the eighth item on the agenda is... [[There's something going on in the hall.]] Oh, I'm sorry! I'm sorry, I'm gonna write down some notes. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U529	Thank you. For me, and certainly for my good colleagues, this pattern will begin to be drawn here, from which it seems quite clearly that everything here, from the aforementioned Minister, Riisalos, and Chairman of the Economic Commission, Michal, and [ending] member of the Economic Commission, Akkermann, has disappeared. This is not a normal situation; it is far from normal. Something very bad has probably happened because we know our colleagues, they have still been full of work, but today we see that something prevents them from coming here before the Riigikogu. I could say this is a very exceptional case when there are no waitresses. In fact, I think that the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu now has reason to take a break and perhaps even turn to the police, to ask if anything has happened to them. Are they in a hospital? Is there a god knows what accident has happened or has they been assaulted? We can't just leave this kind of thing unresponsive. Maybe something really serious has happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U530	I'll listen to the rest of the procedure, then we'll put it together. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U531	Good manager! It's actually a very serious story that people are disappearing. Mr Oudekki Loone was sent to space, so to speak. Minister of Social Security Riisalo may be flying somewhere, but it's not much time yet, not even 11:00. And ministers and ladies and gentlemen are already asleep. Maybe we should wake up.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U532	I will take Mr Grünthal's question too, then I will try to sum them up. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U533	Thank you. Mr President, you, of course, say, about the impossibility of discussing this item on the agenda, did not refer to the paragraph under which it is impossible. But I was able to actually find it without your help, if I'm right now, I think it's § 73. Indeed, the following is stated here if the documents on which the debate is based have not been served in time or if the rapporteur is not present for discussion of the item on the agenda. Under the second paragraph of this [paragraf], this point goes to the next working week of the debate. Maybe that's how I get it right now. It's gonna run to April. And now I have the question: how many times can it be postponed in this way under our Rules of Procedure? Is that once or twice? Or is it [to all time]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U534	Thank you. That's how many times we can postpone or how many times we're forced to postpone, isn't written. There are still deadlines for the procedure, when one or the other draft must have been in this Chamber at first reading, at second reading and at third reading. These deadlines are set out in the Rules of Procedure. Since these two previous questions concerned whether or not people are present, since they are not there, I can tell you in advance that for points 8 and 9, I have received an announcement from two ministers that they cannot come today either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U535	We can move forward with the tenth item on the agenda and I hope that the Anti Half Office exists. Is the Anti-Semimets real? Mr. Halfwit, please! The chair is all yours. Mr. Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U536	Thank you. Honourable Vice-Chairman, maybe you should take a half-hour break from the chairman and see if the health of the members of the government is all right. Maybe some bad food or water has happened. Such mass incomprehensible illness or failure is actually a cause for concern for the people. Why don't you take a look and take a half-hour break?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U537	However, I prefer to move on to the agenda. If Mr. Halfway is here, we can move on nicely. Mr. Grünthal, do you have a procedure or not? You had a tablet for a second, then you got off. Mr. Fieldace, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U538	Thank you. In fact, I have a pressing concern about the question of my good colleague Rene Kok that there might be some kind of outbreak here. We saw Kristen Michal during the day, and also some time ago he was in this room among us, and maybe it's a very common disease today, a serious infectious disease that has hit all three people and maybe we've been infected with when we've been fooled around here. I ask the President-in-Office to take a break and find out why we are here now without these waitresses.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U539	I have a proposal to go to point ten. I have just received confirmation that Liina Kersna has already reached the House of Riigikogu, so we can process the tenth point and then go straight to point 11. Liina Kersna is already in the Riigikogu Hall. I'm sorry, I didn't notice. All right, Anti Division. But I still can't. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U540	Good manager! It's still a procedural question. If three ministers have suddenly disappeared at the same time and have not appeared before the employer, how normal is that? You have a longer period here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U541	As far as I know, they're not missing. They have informed the Riigikogu that they cannot come to the Riigikogu today. Mr Ligi, do you have a wish to speak or what you have? Mr. Kruusimäe? Now, Mr. Kruusmäe's procedure and then Mr. Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U542	At this point in time, the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu says that they cannot come, but since we do not know the circumstances, we can also formulate it in such a way that they do not have the will. And will as such is not at all disparaging, it can be like this if we don't know these things. So I think we're starting from this: the coalition says they can't come, and the opposition says they have no will. Really, I say we proceed with the next draft. It should be 252. My procedure is that there was the wrong number before.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U543	Thank you. The next item is Bill 525. Mr. Ligi, you had a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U544	Thank you. I had this question, when can we read this draft EKRE? There's some kind of fair going on here, and I'm waiting all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U545	Mr. Ligi, in response to your warm request, the Anti Pool Office is welcome to the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U546	Ladies and gentlemen, especially Mr Jürgen Ligi, who are looking forward to introducing this bill to the Riigikogu's premiere! Let us make fruitful use of this time! What can I say? I am not going to play the role of the Commission here, but there was also a lively debate in the Commission on this. And in the Commission, I heard that there was also a lively debate in the government. So this bill is going to talk. I've been in contact with the same bill when I was working at the Justice Department. I know that not all things can be foreseen in life, even if the President decides to change his wife before the end of his term of office, and then suddenly the husband of the President of the husband who contributed a great deal is deprived of his dues. Indeed, not all situations are predictable. Similarly, there are benefits for the president, for the purpose that once he has resigned, he will be able to carry on his social duties with dignity, for example, so that he can carry out his external communication function. For this purpose, the state has provided him with some benefits which, however, do not make sense when, for example, a person sits in this very room as a member of the Riigikogu. He shouldn't get such double benefits in that case. However, the pension for this profession would be something that the President may not be paid elsewhere, and it would be restored later if, for example, the President had finished the role of a member of the Riigikogu. The draft provides for cases where the payment of occupational benefits is interrupted. And these are standing as a candidate in elections to the Riigikogu or the European Parliament, or also in these roles by election as a member of the Riigikogu, as a member of the European Parliament, or by appointment as a minister. In such a case, the professional benefits of, for example, his adviser and secretary, that is, the right to have an adviser and secretary at his disposal, the use of an official car at the expense of the State, the reimbursement of mission expenses and other reasonable expenses, as provided for by law, shall cease to exist. But as far as the pension is concerned, as has been said, the pension will continue to be paid when the ex-president either renounces the seat of a member of the Riigikogu or is no longer elected to this post, or the term of his ministry is over. Then he'll have to pay his pension. Then why do you need it? The question is, instead, why would a person need multiple benefits in a situation where he is properly compensated for in some new roles that are highly paid in the public sector, such as the role of a member of the Riigikogu, the role of a minister, the role of a Member of the European Parliament? If we also look at the positive trends this year, we will see that regional investment has been reduced, the direction is also to reduce political party support. It is reasonable that we keep this line that there is no overcrowding in those positions that have already been paid with dignity. At this point in time, when we look to the way this law has worked so far, I would not say that there has been a strong opposition to the fact that the President should not have these benefits. In Estonian society [ex-presidents] are considered to be ex-presidents with quite a high degree of respect. With this draft, we do not just intend to take these benefits automatically, but really only if they become multiple. Similarly, the very high remuneration of the previous President from the European Court of Auditors, which exceeded his other salaries, was surprising. It made it necessary to consider whether the President is impartial in his position when he receives impressive fees from the institutions of the European Union which exceed his salary as President of Estonia. I did have these questions for thinking during the previous president's time. But not exactly then, the question that an ex-president should receive a double fee for. I have received feedback on this bill, I have received positive feedback. I believe that this positive feedback from both politicians and ordinary people motivates us to continue working on this material, although yes, against the background of the Ukrainian war it seems that most of the legislation could now be expected. However, we must move forward with our lives, also with the observations we have made before the war in Ukraine, before the start of this brutal invasion. I believe it is worthwhile to continue to deal with such details as the remuneration of our Heads of State. I look forward to hearing your questions on the same subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U547	Good waitress, they don't show. Thank you! So let's go to the co-report. I would like to speak with Mart Võrguship, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U548	Thank you. Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft law amending the Act on the President of the Republic's Official Benefits Act initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia on 525 Monday, 14 March 2022. On behalf of the initiators, Anti Poolamets carried out a thorough review of this draft and, in fact, he has already talked about most of these content issues. We also had a debate on the issue of pensions and whether the draft could have any retroactive effect on the people holding the presidency. But we have come to the conclusion that, retroactively, if this law is passed, it will not apply. This still applies to those presidents who take the next steps if they should come to day politics or take the role of a Member of the Riigikogu or a Member of the European Parliament or a Minister. There was also a debate on the concepts of whether, in the case of pensions, we are talking about interruption or suspension. We came to the conclusion that it is worth using the same terms in the law. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, announced that the Government of the Republic had abandoned its position on this draft. He also explained that the benefits and the conditions under which the President of the Republic [to be allowed] is to be decided by the legislator. And since this law was created in [the beginning] of the 1990's, it is not surprising that it does not provide for all the situations that can lead to life. And then we took procedural decisions: to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda on 24 March 2022, to propose the termination of the first reading, to appoint Mart Võrguship as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and to set the deadline for amendments on 14 April 2022. That's all for me. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U549	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U550	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In my opinion, this draft is a completely unprecedented fact. It is not customary for the Government of the Republic to fail to make an assessment and to fail to shape a position, because, let's say, practically always there has been some kind of position when dealing with every draft, whether or not the government supports it. If I remember correctly now, something has been mentioned by the representative of the Ministry of Justice, which is why it is not being shaped. Why don't you open up the question that Mrs Yurchenko said to explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U551	For starters: no, this is not unprecedented. This has also been the case with other drafts that the Government of the Republic fails to shape its position. I also said what was written in the minutes: that the justification or explanation of Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko was that it was up to the legislator to decide what benefits and under what conditions [to allow] the President of the Republic. This is what the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic do not take a stand here. That's what the protocol says.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U552	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U553	Thank you very much. To some extent, Mr Grünthal has already asked my question. I also wanted you to open up this government position a little bit more. But did the government's view that this is, as you said, the competence of the Riigikogu give rise to any kind of debate in the committee? We know that there are two parties in the government, the Centre Party and the Reform Party, and sometimes their opinions differ, and that is why we cannot form a common position. Could there have been something like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U554	Well, there was a debate. Not all of this is currently in the minutes, but the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs introduced these various proposals that... I'm sorry, now I've gotten a little messed up! It was for another bill, it's late, everyone's wrong. The answer is that what I was about to say was about another bill at the same time. That debate was what I already said.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U555	Mr. Ernits, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U556	I was gonna take the question down, but if that's a chance, I'm gonna ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U557	You can take it down, you don't have to ask. [[Laughing.]] There's no obligation to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U558	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, As the employer's representative, Mart is currently on the speaker's desk. Are you going to discuss the fact that three of your ministers in a row have not bothered to come before us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U559	Since it was procedural, it's a question for me, not a waitress. If you want to ask the waitress, you have to press the "Word" key. I don't think the waitress has anything to say about the procedure. And in itself, purely formal, it was not a procedural question. Mr. Grünthal, your second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U560	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There was also a legal problem during the procedure for this draft, so that this law could apply, let us say, retroactively, for example, to our last President, Kersti Kaljulaid. The question is [what can] if, after the end of the term of office, the President decides to stand as a candidate, for example, to the Riigikogu or the European Parliament. We're going to pass the law, but would it apply retroactively to him? I remember very clearly that we reached a common consensus that since he has not yet applied, this retroactivity does not matter. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U561	I tried to explain it, but maybe it got messed up. I will now read this particular paragraph in the minutes so that it is unambiguous. Kalle Grünthal, in other words, you have also said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or expressed the opinion that, if the law is passed, there is really no need to do anything retroactively. To take Kersti Kaljulaid, for example, he has not applied or has not been elected to the Riigikogu or the European Parliament, nor has he been appointed Minister. These restrictions apply to him in a perfectly legitimate way, or in a future defined way. Then you also asked whether Mr. Half-Amets thought your reasoning was correct. And the Anti Division replied that yes, this reasoning is correct. Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, agreed with Kalle Grünthal's comment and stated that these events have not yet really arrived. He pointed out, among other things, that the initiators of the draft act had specifically provided in Article 9 (1) of [the amended Act] that the payment of the pension to the President would be suspended if, after the expiry of his term of office, he had applied and had been elected to the Riigikogu, the European Parliament or the Minister appointed. But according to Toomas Kivimägi, it would be much more logical to use the word "stopping" instead of the word "disruption," which is also used in the President of the Republic Act. I have now brought it out separately from the text. I tried to explain it earlier, but now I brought it as a specific text. And by summing up, we also came up with the fact that yes, "stopping" would be more accurate. I hope you have an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U562	Mr. Hepner!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U563	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I really understand that it is late and it requires some effort from us, but I would like to come to my previous question. If the government normally fails to make an assessment, it is usually due to the fact that one party considers differently from the other party or, if there are three parties, at least one party must think differently from the other. Which side now tends to support this bill, the Reform Party or the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U564	I'd say no, it doesn't have to be. The Government of the Republic may leave some matters to the Riigikogu. Just as the President has said from this speaker that the Riigikogu may come to the front seat, it does not have to be in the back seat. In this case, too, the government has not given us any guidance. Now, if you look terribly for which side of the coalition is on one side or on the other, I will repeat, just in case, that in consensus the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to propose that the first reading be stopped. And consensually, Kalle Grünthal, Toomas Kivimägi, Oudekki Loone, Tõnis Mölder, Paul Puustusmaa, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship have all supported the completion of the first reading of this draft. Probably here's the answer the coalition thinks it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U565	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. As you have heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 525. We have finished our first reading and will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 14 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U566	We will proceed with our 11th item, which is the inquiry into the closure of rural schools submitted by Riigikogu members Siim Pohlak, Jaak Valge, Helle-Moonika Helme, Leo Kunnas, Peeter Ernitsa, Paul Puustusmaa, Riho Breiveli, Anti Polandmets, Urmas Reitelmann and Alar Laneman. The representative of the heirs is Siim Pohlak. We've got... [[They say something in the hall.]] Yeah, well, I wanted to get there that we've gotten the following information from the inquisitives, that if there is no Siim Pohlak, then the representative of the heirs is Jaak White. I don't see him either. Has something happened to them? [[Henn Põllamaas says something about the hall.]] And that's when I'm going to ask the group chairman. Please also a microphone, we need it for the recording anyway or for the recording, sorry. The chairman of the political group who represents the heirs? Now, please, a microphone for Henn Põllaa. Why don't you press "Word" over there for a second? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U567	Thank you, President-in-Office. The rapporteur by the political group or the author of the inquiry shall be the Anti Poolamets.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U568	Got it. Thank you. Please, Anti Division!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U569	I'd like to introduce you to our questions, good fellows. The Ministry of Education and Research announced that it would distribute additional money to local governments to clean up the school network. It has become apparent that in order to receive the allowance, the municipality must close the upper secondary school level with less than 100 students. We believe that the issue needs to be dealt with more widely than just looking at numbers. Attention must also be paid to peripheralisation and the potential decline of settlements. The whole of Estonia cannot move together to the county centres or finally to Tallinn and Tartu. In this regard, we have the following questions for the Minister for Education and Science. Why does the Ministry of Education encourage the decline of rural areas and support the closure of smaller upper secondary schools, often located in remote areas, rather than looking for ways to support the survival of the upper secondary school? Secondly, what analyses are based on this plan? Has the Ministry of Education addressed the issue from the point of view of peripheralisation and rural decline? Thirdly, how does the closure of upper secondary school affect the living environment of the regions and the attractiveness of these places in people's eyes when choosing their place of residence? Fourthly, does the Ministry of Education have numerical objectives as to how many upper secondary schools are expected to be shut down during the so-called school networking scheme? Fifthly, according to the Ministry of Education, what is the reasonable length of the school course? Do you consider 80 to 100 kilometres of commuting back and forth between home and school to be reasonable and healthy for a gymnasist? And last but not least, has the Ministry of Education considered the possibility of a positive programme rather than encouraging closure, such as the launch of a project to maintain small secondary schools in remote areas, to support the preservation of magymnasiums and to develop cooperation between small secondary schools with state secondary schools in the county centre, sharing the burden on teachers or using digital opportunities in part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U570	The Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, must answer this question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U571	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, I apologize for not being able to attend at the last time I agreed because I fell ill. But now I'm back, and I'm happy to answer your questions. Indeed, as Minister for Education and Science, I say that attention must be paid to quality education so that our children and young people receive high quality education. Today I am still before you as Minister for Education and Science, not Minister for Regional Affairs, so my answers are primarily based on education and the quality of education. But I'll start answering. First, "Why does the Ministry of Education favour the decline of rural areas and support the closure of smaller upper secondary schools, often located on the outskirts, rather than looking for ways to support the survival of upper secondary schools? " The answer. The support offered by the State is an optional option for municipalities, not an obligation. The organisation of your school network is the responsibility of the local government. The state offers local governments cooperation in providing secondary education places. The organisation of the upper secondary school network has been continuous since 2013 when the Riigikogu amended the basic school and upper secondary school law and obliged the state to create at least one state secondary school in each county. 18 state gymnasiums have been created in cooperation between local governments and the state, and more have been created. This is a step towards preventing marginalisation, so that opportunities for young people in every smaller county municipality are also created for high-quality general secondary education. From the state budget, additional money has been provided to support teachers' labour costs since 2014 specifically for school managers with a small upper secondary school level. Municipalities with less than 400 pupils in upper secondary school and 68 local authorities were allocated 1.1 million extra money for teachers' labour costs this year, in accordance with the regulation of the Equalisation and Support Fund. Forty-four municipalities with 43-250 pupils in their only municipal secondary school in their administrative territory were allocated an additional half a million euros this year. In addition to the support granted from the state budget for maintaining upper secondary school, the municipalities with a small upper secondary school level have contributed 1.4 million each year to the circa, either through the salary allowance of the primary school teacher from the state budget or through other public services of the municipalities, based on the data of the balance holder. However, this has not enabled most local governments, which hold small magymnasiums, to pay teachers of magymnasiums an extra fee. According to the balance data for 2020, the municipalities holding small upper secondary schools are 29, whose teacher's average salary does not reach the average teacher's salary in Estonia. Thus, the state has consistently supported municipalities which hold upper secondary schools with a small number of students, but the number of students and the sustainability of schools has not increased with additional funding. The social agreement in the Estonian development plan in the field of education 2021 to 2035 has set the direction primarily for the student's interests that the state, in agreement with local authorities, will assume greater responsibility for maintaining secondary education places, so that local authorities can focus on their basic tasks, basic and basic education, and the organisation of recreational education and youth work. The second question: "Does and what analyses are based on this plan? Has the Ministry of Education addressed the issue from the point of view of peripheralisation and rural decline? " I remind you that you have before you the Minister of Education and Science. But the answer is yes. The planning of the organisation of the school network is based on the demographic changes that have already taken place in the Ministry and local governments, the forecasts of the future of Statistics Estonia and the studies carried out. On 9 November 2020, Auditor General Janar Holm presented the report "The Future of Priority Public Services" in the Special Committee of the Riigikogu and summarised it as follows: "The provision of open services in the outskirts of the country requires restructuring and so money, but above all because of the lack of people. When we look at filling the jobs of family doctors, teachers, policemen and rescuers, Estonia as a whole is at risk of providing a number of priority services, apart from Harju and Tartumaa." Under the coordination of the Ministry of Finance, the OECD analysis "Adjusting to the Weak Declination in Estonia: Regional Preparation for Demographic Change" was completed, which was presented at the online seminar. February 17th. The report pointed out the following: Compared to 20 years ago, 50,000 fewer students are studying in general education schools today. Compared to the costs per pupil in densely populated cities and rural areas, the difference in costs is already one of the highest in comparison with European countries. The report's important policy recommendations are to continue to focus on upper secondary school levels. General and vocational secondary education must be more integrated, digital learning promoted and demand-based public transport solutions developed. The third question: "How does closure of upper secondary school affect the living environment of the regions concerned and the attractiveness of these places to choose where people live? " The answer. Compared to 2010, when 224 upper secondary schools were operating in Estonia, the cooperation between municipalities and the state has reached 158 upper secondary schools. Praxis study 2014: Analysis of the Estonian core school and upper secondary school network by 2020 revealed that the choice of upper secondary school is not a school distance for young people. That's exactly the choice of high school. The young person's choice is based primarily on his or her own interests and on a learning environment suitable for an upper secondary school. This is confirmed by the current migration of upper secondaryists, where young people prefer a higher secondary school rather than a secondary school. He continued his studies on 2020/2021. during the academic year in his/her home school, i.e. from 1 to 12th grade upper secondary school, only 26% of students. For example, 85% of the upper secondaryists in Viljandi rural municipality, 81% of the upper secondaryists in Tori rural municipality, 68% of the upper secondaryists in Lääne-Nigula rural municipality have not chosen a school with upper secondary school level in its municipality. Praxis study "The forecast of the Estonian comprehensive school and upper secondary school network for 2020 confirms that the choice of residence is determined by a strong primary school for the young family and not by the closeness of the upper secondary school. There are 79 local governments in Estonia and the majority of general education schools also operate as primary schools today. There are 11 local governments in Estonia whose territory does not include any schools with upper secondary school level, and in 13 local governments the upper secondary school is not run by a city or municipality, but by the state. The absence of upper secondary or vocational education and training in the territory of the local government of the place where the student resides and the transfer of schools providing general secondary education to the State has not prevented the student from completing general, secondary or vocational education. I believe in the capacity of local authorities to cooperate with the state and larger municipalities so that secondary education places are guaranteed for young people. Question 4: "Does the Ministry of Education have numerical targets as to how many upper secondary school levels are expected to be closed under the so-called "school networking" scheme? " The decisions of their school network are made by each schoolkeeper himself. Closing the upper secondary school does not mean closing the school, but continuing the school as a strong primary school. The state has supported and continues to support municipalities wishing to bring the school network and study places into line with the demographic changes that have already taken place and are predictable. Analysis by the Ministry of Education and Research shows that it is possible to guarantee a teacher's 20% salary above the minimum wage of the teacher, if there are at least 100 students in upper secondary school. Question 5: "What does the Ministry of Education consider the length of a reasonable school course? Do you think that driving 80 to 100 kilometers back and forth a day between home and school is reasonable and healthy for a gymnasist? " The answer. The law does not set criteria for the student of upper secondary school or vocational training institution, but 88% of upper secondaryists outside Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and Narva have a school distance of less than 30 km per day, 6% have a school distance of up to 50 km and over 50 km the school distance is 7% for the upper secondaryists. When analysing the migration of students studying secondary education and based on the Praxise 2014 survey, it can be argued that the choice of a school that corresponds to interests and abilities is a more decisive factor than the length of the school's journey instead of the upper secondary school. The state and local authorities have provided support for accommodation, transport and other costs, especially for young people living further away. The creation of state secondary schools is a regional political project to ensure that in each county the upper secondary school is offered a choice and an appropriate learning environment. It also reduces the concentration of motivated gymnasts only in Tallinn and Tartu. Vocational upper secondary education students of the same age as upper secondary school students have been studying in county centres or beyond for decades. The availability of both general and vocational secondary education and changes in the school network must be supported in particular by sound transport arrangements and thus the Ministry of Education and Research, in cooperation with the public transport centres of the municipalities and the Transport Board, is involved. Students can choose whether to apply for student housing or housing allowance. Question six. It's such a long question, I may not read it out to take the time to answer. But it is basically asked whether cooperation with rural areas could be pursued. Collaboration between schools begins with the joint will of school holders, schools and communities. Internships have shown that cooperation between upper secondary schools under one of the school holders is more effective. This is also what we see in the case of state secondary schools, where cooperation is really very good. Local authorities have supported a clear definition of responsibility in organising secondary education in the negotiations on the budget and the state budget strategy. The former Head of the National Audit Office and current President of the Republic of Estonia, Alar Karis, already stated in the 2013 and 2014 annual reports that, like the self-government reform, where voluntary merger of local governments was expected, the organisation of the school network on a voluntary basis has not led to major changes in anticipation of agreements. The shared responsibility between the two levels of government for the organisation of the upper secondary school network has not produced the necessary results with sufficient speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U572	Good Minister, now is the time for the questions of the members of the Riigikogu. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U573	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on being one of the few ministers who are working here in front of the Riigikogu today. And I have a question. For years, we have heard basically the same thing as your answers: that there is no money and there are no people and there is nothing we can do. It's a capitulant constant tightening and decelerating. But now, in connection with the crisis in Ukraine, we have come up with thousands and possibly tens of thousands of people who need to be put into schools. We'll find money for them. So how do we find the money, but we can't find the money for our people? Why do we still have money to motivate this decline and contraction to save some millions if we are actually willing to find tens of millions to accommodate tens of thousands of new students?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U574	Thank you. Firstly, the country today also supports rural schools. As I said, every year smaller schools in rural areas receive additional support for teachers' salaries. The state has invested in a network of state secondary schools, where indeed, even in clearly declining counties, modern learning environments for gymnasts with many opportunities have been created. And it is good to see that these upper secondary schools are popular among young people, that the system of state secondary schools has worked well. There really are many choices for young people. When we look at the results of the state exams, we also see that the results of state secondary schools are high. The question is how much the local community is willing to pay in order to maintain upper secondary school, while knowing that a lot is paid, but cannot guarantee the same conditions as the state secondary schools of county centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U575	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U576	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to congratulate you: no doubt the title of the best and bravest minister of this week will go to you. You haven't been hiding at all. Thank you for that. But now the question is this. This voluntary motivation for the school network to optimise [targeted] municipalities, well, in fact, we understand that its [objective] is a cut-off task, to pull together. Are you, like, satisfied when local governments start shutting down these schools for the money they offered? How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U577	This is certainly not a cut-off task that the Ministry supports for its part. We know that there are regions where the number of children and young people has already fallen considerably and is still falling. And it's just a question for the local community where we're going to channel the money or how much as a community we're willing to pay for high school. Because a lot of money gets paid. There are local authorities that pay more than 80% of what the state gives. And there are not few, there are many such local authorities. This is not for cutting purposes. It is simply the local community that needs to look at where the money is being channelled, where the best result is to channel the money. I also stressed in my reply that most of these small upper secondary schools are maintained at the expense of basic school teachers' salaries. Whether we want to keep a strong comprehensive school in the community ? it is essential for the local population to have a strong comprehensive school or we weaken comprehensive school by maintaining upper secondary school and paying salaries to its teachers at the expense of primary school teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U578	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U579	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. As far as state secondary schools are concerned, an architect told me to look, but this is a project to instill euro money, and later they will be returned to the local authorities. They were made in order to meet [certain] criteria. I don't have the guts to say that, but that's what he said. Still, why don't we invest more in these upper secondary schools? For example, Kadrinas has a school with a very strong sense of identity, organises its own very specific field, is highly developed in certain technical areas. [We could] strengthen these very characters in upper secondary schools. For example, national defence training could use Tapa Gymnasium, bringing people across Estonia together. Why don't we invest more in it to keep our children on the ground? Otherwise, they will move to Finland and county centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U580	Thank you. If we look at the figures, the Estonian state invests a great deal in education among the European Union and also among OECD countries. We are a people of the faith in education, and our budget goes to education with considerable money. At the same time, we see that the salaries of our teachers are at an absolute disadvantage compared to other countries. We are the last of the OECD countries, together with Latvia, and, at the same time, as a ratio to GDP, we invest very much in education. Where does the money go, where does the money for education go? This money for education goes into an unreasonable school network, and it is actually very unfortunate because our teachers deserve a significantly higher salary. We have this kind of 'paper' in the house for various local authorities, of course, that can also be criticised for the reform of the school network. It is very clear from this that, for example, if there are seven schools and seven of them lose their upper secondary school grades in a couple or one of them and make a few more changes, with the available money, the pay of teachers in the region could immediately increase by over EUR 2 000. I understand that the organisation of the school network is always very emotional, but I, as Minister of Education, think first and foremost about how to ensure quality education, access to quality education. All data show that a gymnasist does not usually have a problem going to a school in a county centre that is of high quality, offering plenty of opportunities to learn according to his own interests. And these results are also very good. At the same time, teachers get a decent salary, are motivated. Yes, I understand that these decisions are difficult to make at local level, and that is why these decisions come so hard. They're hard to make. But I don't think they should be made because they're hard decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U581	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U582	Good manager! For my part, I also congratulate you on being the only member of the ministerial community who does not sleep during working hours, and you have come before us. So sincere recognition. But let's look at these little magymnasiums where the teachers' average salary is worse than it really should be. My question is, how much would it really cost if the country were to gossip about this? How many million would it take not to look for that money next to the middle school gym?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U583	Thank you. I don't have to take it right away, how many million more would need to be added in order to keep small magymnasiums alive and provide teachers with a competitive salary with extra money. But, you know, I'm telling you, quite frankly, that this would put a lot of pressure on education. Even now, these teachers teach significantly smaller classes. There is a big difference between a teacher repairing ten children's test or 33 children's test, and then they get equal pay. That doesn't seem fair. There are already these tensions today, but if we paid millions more to teachers in small regions, in addition to the additional support available, this would create inequalities in the area. If I look at the data here, well, let's take Häädemeeste High School for example, there are 28 students in upper secondary school and the local community pays after 183,29% compared to what the state has paid. There are several local governments and schools in this table.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U584	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U585	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My respect to you as the only minister who came before the Riigikogu today! Thank you. I'm going to describe a scenario for you. If there's a blackout in a war or any situation, then in the Lasnamäe-sized part of the city, 100,000 people have to leave. The water won't come and the sewers won't work. We can't get to the store because the terminals don't work. Where are they going? They're going to the country. Because it's the rural area that feeds, covers, accommodates, heats, where they can live. In essence, it is our rear in terms of national defence. In order for this rear to work, there should be young families who can promote the economy. Will you please tell me if my reasoning is wrong or correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U586	I have repeatedly said that I am the Minister of Education and Science and that I am responsible for ensuring that our children and young people receive a very good education, and that they also receive a very good education at upper secondary school. And I don't think small country schools should be shut down. I think the closer the school is on the middle school level, the better. Today we are talking about upper secondary school, big people who have developed their own interests. And our goal is that we can provide all young people with the best possible education based on their interests. And today's data show that even in regions where young people have the opportunity to continue studying in their high school, the vast majority do not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U587	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U588	Thank you, Mr. President. Good minister! You mentioned that a teacher in a class with a low number of students gets the same salary as a teacher in a class with a high number of students. In that sense, it's true that there's a minimum wage to be paid when you go to class. But today, the government gives the local governments money as a target funding and the state does not allocate money to all equally according to the number of teachers or the number of classes. There's your standard load, how big it has to be. And that is, of course, the question of the autonomy of the municipality, whether it puts itself there or whether it chooses to optimize. But here's my question. What is your personal opinion on how many students should study in one class in upper secondary school to make it reasonable for the municipality to keep it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U589	Thank you for your question. I think there should be at least 100 students in high school. I know there are high school leaders who say there aren't fewer than 500 students in high school. [[They say something in the hall.]] Yeah, at three levels, at upper secondary school, a total of 100 students. But I know it's a little less ambitious, a lot of people think that this number should be significantly higher. At the same time, I understand that in certain areas where there are 80, 90, 100 students, upper secondary school is also needed and these upper secondary schools can really provide a wide range of education. But if there are 19 students, 29 students, 26 students in upper secondary school, it is hard to imagine that these young people will receive an equally good education for which conditions have actually been created in the county centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U590	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U591	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Madam Prime Minister! That's what it looks like to me. If you look at the fact that the rest of you took off somehow, and consider that one former prime minister, Andrus Ansip, said that you were his next successor, it seems to be justified. You've done your job well. You're convincing, you're credible, you have empathy and you don't start all the answers with classic bingo questions that you did there. My question is simple: how great is the opposition of the middle party Tallinn to direct Ukrainian war refugees to the Estonian-speaking, pro-Estonian school system? He wants everything the other way around. How big is it, can you tell? We can read between the lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U592	Thank you. I'm awkward right now. I don't know how I deserve the honor that every question begins with a compliment. This may only happen just before midnight in the Riigikogu Hall, but I am very grateful for these compliments. But, of course, I have to say that Kaja Kallas is a very good Prime Minister, and I think his talents have been particularly manifest these days. I certainly wouldn't be better Prime Minister today than Kaja Kallas. He's doing his job very well. I'm sure I couldn't do so well, but I'm trying to do my best in my role. When it comes to channelling war refugees into our education system, at the beginning, when data on the education information system began to be entered, it was really evident from small numbers that almost half of the children were transferred to the Russian education system. Fortunately, according to the latest data, 622 children have been registered in the education information system and more than half of them are in the Estonian-language education system, and less than 20% of them were 17%, and are addressed to Russian-language kindergartens or schools. And these directions have been at the request of parents. They have not been coerced by the local government itself in any way, but have been directed at the wishes of the parent. I do not see that the city of Tallinn is somehow forced to direct children to the Russian education system.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U593	Thank you, good minister. No further questions. I will open negotiations, and before I give the floor to Tarmo Kruusimägi, do I ask if anyone would like to speak on behalf of the inquisitors? No, it doesn't. Then please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U594	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people who, of course, are watching us from their work offices at this point in time, but dare not come to this hall, especially those who are waitresses on behalf of the Commission! Well, the lonely ones who don't have a monitor in their office! Good Madam Prime Minister, modesty is what adorns you. This [is] a rare occurrence when the opposition approves the coalition. But it's today. Yesterday is actually extremely signicant to us. We would like to ask you a number of questions, even if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and officials came out on the sidelines. We spoke here today, handled the Aliens Act, and it was claimed that the military conflict in Ukraine began on 24 February 2022. But we all know that it started in March 2014, when Crimea was occupied, annexed. I know exactly that on 27 March, the fans of Donetsk Shahtjor and Kharkiv who fought earlier were in a procession and sang this Ukrainian folk song "Putin huilo." We must choose sides in the war, and at this point there are [opposed opinions] on how Ukrainian war refugees should be dealt with. I sincerely say that here most members of the Riigikogu still wish these people [good] because we [know] that it was not easy for once, in 1944, for the people who left here to start a life on foreign soil [new]. For that reason, we can be foresighted to say that when we talk about closing down small rural schools, we want the urban sprawl to stop. So that we can share [Ukrainian students] in a coherent way so that they do not remain in their communities, but they retain their education in their national language. We know that [of these] there are 350 educators. But I also know as a city councillor in Tallinn that almost two weeks ago Mayor Mikhail Kõlvart said that Estonian-speaking schools lack the capacity to receive [Ukrainian children] and that is why they are mainly directed to Russian-speaking schools in Tallinn. Today, Mikhail Kõlvart has already said that helping the Ukrainians too much can be very worrying for the Russian-speaking population or the electorate. In fact, times are alarming. We're just reading these messages. I would like to remind you that in Donetsk and Luhansk people signed for their right to speak Russian. Because Ukraine wanted to adopt a law that their official language was Ukrainian. But no other language would be banned. And people signed in good faith, but they said we didn't sign for you to mess up your life here. Maybe I'm a little paranoid, but I've taken too much personal part in these crises and events. Very many people in the better sector and the coolest and fiercest football fans of many different clubs have died for their homeland. They all had the inalienable right to see the beautiful games of their own club. And if I see a repeat of the same pattern here, we won't have a long party. We know that Russia's ability to sow instability, to man people here somewhere, is terrifying. In such a difficult time, we actually need a minister who, even though perhaps things have gone south between the coalitions, dares to come to the employer. And that honors you, Madam Prime Minister. We are grateful to you for this. Thank you very much. Slava Ukrainiani! Slava Nazi!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U595	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-23_U596	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, The issue of education in one municipality, be it a city or a municipality, is undeniably extremely important and, in this sense, it is as if you deserve to be a prime minister in a field as important as education. This is one of the areas on which our municipalities actually rely, it is undoubtedly one of the foundations. And it is quite clear that, therefore, there is perhaps a little more concern about these issues than about any other matter that concerns the municipalities or our rural areas, because the Estonian state, on the other hand, is relying primarily on strong local governments. Being a former self-governance manager, I'd a little open up local governments' [problems] in education or, rather, upper secondary school issues. Indeed, I also do not think that if there are 20 to 30 students in upper secondary school after three years, it is very sustainable or very easy for municipalities to hold. I guess that's the question of the autonomy of the municipality, how much he wants to contribute himself to the upper secondary school. I very much think that if a hundred students come together, or perhaps even this limit would be worth letting down a little bit more, 25 students are one normal class set, and if we can fill it out, that means 75 to 80 students in three years, then I think this is already a place where the state should say that if there is also quality, then it is very good. We have a high school in the countryside. I'm gonna open up a little bit of why it's really good. It is not quite the case that a large upper secondary school saves more costs. When the state upper secondary schools began, very strongly promoted, from there it came exactly [such message] that we should have upper secondary schools in Estonia, with 500 students, 600 students, even 700 students, were said to actually go. And all that is less than that is actually irrelevant. Well, then it was realized that indeed Hiiumaa, the heathen, does not give such a gymnasium. Then the smaller numbers began to be searched quietly. But even such a simple thing as organising school transport in the countryside. I can talk completely about my own practice. If we had lost our upper secondary school in Kohila, we would have had to pay double for school transport, because there would have been no overlap between the times when some children should have been transferred to primary school and others to either Rapla or Tallinn upper secondary school. It's just that I should have started double buses and, of course, double buses would have paid double money. So this savings is not always guaranteed in any way. But let's take teachers in the third grade of primary school, where chemistry and physics are taught, and biology comes instead of science. Actually, it's hard to get any class teachers in these subjects at all, but if you're going somewhere in the country to tell me that I need maybe 0.3... Three more minutes, please.
