ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The session of the 13th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu begins on Thursday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Lauri West Forest wants to do this. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday we heard about a court ruling concerning one of the Estonian media publications and journalists working there. In this context, many legitimate questions have arisen in society, nor can such things and activities ultimately lead to the media's own censorship and all the other poor things that could jeopardise our high position of freedom of the press. I therefore have a number of Social Democrats to address to Minister for Justice Maris Lauri. We want to know the following things. What good the prosecutor's office defended in this case may be incomprehensible in a context where The prosecutor's office itself is similar to cases with significantly greater suspicions to the media. provided and not proved at a later stage. Does the Minister of Justice consider any legislative changes necessary here? What effect could a court-made precedent have on freedom of the press, and does the Minister of Justice see here the need for legislative changes? And there is also the question: if serious and community-shaking money laundering investigations are treated as a matter of interest, regardless of the authority's administration, perhaps such curiosity should be regulated in a different way, so that it is not treated as curiosity? And a few more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U3	I have accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. The Management Board will decide on further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U4	70 Members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U5	Today we have one item on the agenda, this is the draft law amending the law on the use of funds from privatisation initiated by the Isamaa Group 538. We are at first reading and the rapporteur is Riigikogu member Heiki Hepner. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Really, the Fatherland has given... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U7	Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Fatherland has indeed introduced a bill to improve the preservation of our heritage conservation values. The purpose of the draft is to allow the money from privatisation to be used for the maintenance, repair, preservation, restoration and restoration of a building that has been returned during the property reform and is subject to heritage protection. There are 12 heritage reserves in Estonia: in the historic heart of the city in Tallinn, Valgas, Tartu, Pärnu, Võru, Paides, Viljandi, Kuressaare, Rakvere, Haapsalu and Lihula, as well as in Rebala. By becoming the law of this bill, it is possible to support the renovation of the valuable buildings of these heritage reserves and to preserve and make our historical worldview more beautiful. § 1 amends § 7 (11) (7) of the Privatisation Act and states that the funds received by the Reserve Fund may be used to provide support for the maintenance, repair, preservation, restoration and restoration of the returned building in the property reform area. This provision was added upon the entry into force of the new Law on Heritage Protection in 2019 and provided that the renovation of the returned monuments could indeed be supported. Nationalised buildings were returned to legitimate owners in very bad condition. Heritage sites are territorial protection, not so much object-based protection, which means that historic urban space and valuable buildings are protected without being recognised as building monuments. At the same time, the renovation of buildings located within the heritage reserve area is subject to the same restrictions and environmental requirements as the building monuments, but the owner of the returned building located in the heritage reserve cannot apply for support from the property reform reserve fund if the building has not been recognised as a cultural monument. The draft would eliminate this situation of unequal treatment and allow more owners of valuable historic returned buildings to apply for support. When we look at this year's state budget statement, we actually see that there is nothing to rejoice about. The proportion of building monuments in good and satisfactory condition is only 64%; it does not give up two thirds, and it is shamefully few. At the same time, the protection of cultural goods is a constitutional task for the country. Cultural heritage is an important part of Estonian history and a source of identity for each individual as well as for the state as a whole. The Ministry of Culture is the policy designer in the field of heritage conservation. The work on heritage conservation is organised by the National Heritage Board, which aims to enhance cultural heritage and the cultural environment and ensure their preservation. But it is extremely complicated Indeed, this bill that I am reporting to you now does not add resources, but at least takes a step to alleviate the problem by creating more flexibility. Under this Act, it is possible to allocate grants from the reserve fund for the maintenance, repair, conservation, restoration and restoration of a building located in a heritage reserve area that has been returned during the property reform. There are about 5200 building monuments in Estonia, a large part of which is privately owned. The state actually supports the preservation of the material cultural heritage very scarcely a year. If we look again at our budget, in 2022 it will be [two and a half million], in 2021 it will be EUR 4 and a half million. These are, in fact, exceptionally scarce resources. And indeed, in order to make any contribution to the preservation of values, one option is to allow for a slightly more flexible use of [this money] and also to allow owners of returned historical buildings located in heritage conservation areas to apply for support from the property reform reserve fund. In this way we will increase the possibilities for preserving the valuable Estonian cultural heritage, which is the primary task of the Estonian state according to the Constitution. The law would not entail additional costs for the state budget, because indeed, no additional funds will be requested. Currently, EUR 1 million per year has been allocated. Of course, it would not be against the substantial addition of resources, but really, it is a matter of discussion on the state budget, and hopefully in the autumn we will also be able to hold a debate here at least when we make the budget for next year. However, I hope that the coalition will find ways to support the renovation, preservation, maintenance and so on of our heritage-protected buildings. The Ministry of Finance has given its opinion on this, and in some ways it saddens me. Indeed, it is the feeling that when writing this opinion, it has not been said to go into it, or it has not been read at all, even though the draft is very short: two and a half lines in total. Even the three full lines do not have this amendment text, and if you look at the entire length of the draft, you get four full lines. But the opinion has been written and the Government of the Republic has also taken its position on the basis of this opinion: not to support this draft. What, then, is really being reproached? I would disprove some of the facts there or open up a little bit of the content of this opinion. Indeed, the proposed law's wording is that this opinion is consistent with the objectives of the law on the use of funds from privatisation, which is to establish a financial base to support transition reforms and mitigate their negative side-effects and spill-over effects. There is agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic, and at least it will delight and give a little hope that perhaps one day the ice will start to move a little bit. But right now, you really don't know exactly what they mean. However, further on: The Ministry of Finance considers the implementation of a measure to support forced tenants in the ownership reform as a priority task, which awaits the decision-making process and the planning of money for that purpose. According to preliminary forecasts, the property reform reserve fund is not sufficient to address the issue of forced tenants. And now we're actually getting to the bottom of it. Resources are not sufficient to address the issue of forced tenants. But I would say, not at all, derogatory those people who have fallen into the situation of a forced tenant, that this problem has not been caused by the Republic of Estonia. This is not the cause of the [created] problem of the Republic of Estonia; this problem has been caused by the occupation of the Soviet Union. Today's Russia, which is the legal successor of the Soviet Union, has created it. We cannot allow our cultural values to be destroyed in order to resolve the problem that our eastern neighbour has created in the future. And once again, it is not [said] in any way to disparage the tenants, but the scales of these things are completely different. Completely different! At the end of the tunnel, no light is now visible; it is not known when the activities related to the preservation of Estonian cultural heritage could be resolved and financed. And then on. Currently, EUR 5 million, or EUR 1 million per year, is planned to be allocated over five years. This is money allocated to the maintenance of monuments returned in the course of the ownership reform, including buildings located in the heritage conservation area. This is EUR 1 million per year and the Government of the Republic is currently not planning to increase this amount. I understand that in the middle of the year it is difficult to do so in the sense that the budget has been adopted. However, it would be possible to give at least an indicative [sign], as stated in the preamble or at the beginning of the letter, that the draft is in accordance with the law, that it is a common obligation for all of us to at least think about it. Understandably, it would be very positive if the Government of the Republic were to contribute money in the future to the preservation of our cultural values. But apparently, it is, as they say, a pink dream that is not really destined for the fulfillment of this government. As support for forced tenants is a priority and the need for housing restructuring in a declining population area has emerged, the Government of the Republic does not support this draft, it is said. [It is said not] to create additional flexibility, although it would not create any additional financial burden. This is clearly said as no, because point 1: we have forced tenants to deal with. We don't see the end of it, we don't know how it's really gonna come, that's what I was talking about. Point 2 also states: the need to restructure housing in a declining population area has emerged. And this is indeed said in the context of the use of money collected in the course of the ownership reform or of funds received from privatisation. Indeed, the Government of the Republic does not seem to have read this bill or the law on the use of funds actually obtained from privatisation, to have taken a little bit of thought or thought about what the use of the money from privatisation is actually intended to achieve. I say, of course, we need to think about the restructuring of housing in a region with a declining population. It is natural, it is important and it should be dealt with much more vigorously than the Government of the Republic has done so far. But what's the solution now? The solution is, in principle, that we are thinking about the subject we are bringing out, then it is forced tenants or the restructuring of housing in regions with a declining population. We'll think about it, but we're not really working on it. And we are not giving more flexibility in the use of money to preserve our cultural goods, without a penny coming anywhere. In both cases, the government should really act much more forcefully. And, of course, it is actually very sad in itself that the government has drawn up a poor opinion, because there is no proposal to increase the total amount of compensation. However, I stress again, this EUR 1 million for the whole of Estonia [is very little]. For all our buildings of heritage conservation value and for our heritage protected areas, for all 12 heritage protected areas, where we would like to have even one building supported so that we can maintain it, it is clearly said that we are not dealing with it. What is this message for the towns of Tallinn, Valga, Tartu, Pärnu, Võru, Paide, Viljandi, Kuressaare, Rakvere, Haapsalu and Lihula? In my opinion, this [reflects] very clearly what the Government of the Republic thinks of cultural goods and what the Government of the Republic says to the people of these cities: the heart of your city, these heritage reserves are not worth anything, they do not even deserve to be able to apply for the support of a number of buildings. That's a shame. But, ladies and gentlemen, the employers of the Government of the Republic are us. And we actually have the opportunity to change that decision. This is where I really look into the eyes of this few coalition ambassadors who are still in the hall. You can now also support this bill, deal with it, discuss it and, if necessary, improve it, add your nuances, which the coalition, you ladies and gentlemen, consider important. Because I believe that you, too, actually value the preservation of our cultural values in your soul. And I hope very much, and I believe that for you, too, it is actually important for these 12 city hearts or, in fact, for the 11 city hearts plus the Rebala heritage reserve, that their good looks, their good care and their integrity are important. That is why I really have the call: ladies and gentlemen, we support the completion of the first reading of this draft, we discuss it at second reading, we make it better and we will adopt it at third reading at one point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U9	And now it's time for questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U10	Thank you very much. Good waitress! If we recall, the Property Reform Reserve Fund was still created, above all, to support those people who were not treated as equal to those who could privatise housing during the ownership reform. Don't you think, instead of your bill, we should be thinking right now in this Chamber about how to compensate them for their suffering, how to apologize to these people? This process is, you know, ongoing. And if we want to take more money out of it, as you said, money is getting less and less, then it's not enough. And on top of that, don't you think the owner should still keep his property in order once he's accepted it? I thought we knew that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U11	Thank you very much. Indeed, I very much agree that the owner should strive to preserve the property. But when the property was returned, unfortunately, it was not returned in such a way as to be in good condition, not to mention a very good condition. In most cases, these objects were in satisfactory condition and often in quite unsatisfactory condition. And here again is the misunderstanding that we are prepared to sacrifice our own cultural goods in order to compensate for the injustice caused by the occupying powers. I can't accept that. But we'd disprove another false claim that the Government of the Republic was trying to get behind: it's like we're taking money out of it. No, we're not taking money off this bill. We are actually creating flexibility, we are creating the opportunity to use this money to renovate buildings within the heritage reserve even if they are not recognised as cultural monuments. Of course, you should not think that there is so much money that, with this 1 million, all these 11 cities could somehow be gold-plated. 1 million euros is all this, for the entire Republic of Estonia there is 1 million euros. And indeed, I am quite convinced that we should certainly not sacrifice our cultural goods in order to [support] those people who, precisely because of the occupying powers, have fallen within the gears.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U12	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I agree in principle that the owner must take responsibility for his property and do something about it himself. But this debate has been going on for a long time and I also have a question in the context of these protected objects. Question: will the rest of society, if we agree together that something is in the so-called cultural monument or that it is in the region in the heart of a city of so-called milieu, [there is no responsibility]? We say that your property is subject to different requirements because it is expensive to build, but we don't care. Since you're the owner, deal with it. For some reason, we're saying it's awfully valuable that belongs to you, but it's none of our business how it works out. If it falls apart, it's okay for us, but once you fix it, it's your problem. Is this not, in any way, an unreasonable and abnormal situation that we still have?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U14	Thank you. It doesn't make any sense. Here, in fact, if we want to make commitments, we say that it is the responsibility of an individual. I admit that the owner must do his utmost to make sure that his building, whether under heritage protection or not, is not really just about buildings under heritage protection, to survive and decorate our city. But on the other hand, if we say that this is kind of our common value and our common responsibility, then we kind of don't want to come behind it. We're not ready to put anything in there, but we're willing to limit prohibitions and orders and tell you what you can't do and what you can't. If there were solidarity, it would at least be good will if we could, even with a finger, give it to the person who is exerting himself. And again I say that I believe that you, ladies and gentlemen, all still want the preservation of Estonian cultural goods and monuments. Even the vast majority of the owners, the vast majority, I am absolutely convinced of it, wants their property to be preserved, and they make every effort to do so at all costs. And if the state with just one finger could support this motivation a little bit, then it would be great. This would show that society is solidarity. We also need this solidarity in the preservation of cultural goods.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U15	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I have to say, your performance is very effective, and there's nothing wrong with this idea. But that's what I'm asking. I'm sure you share my point of view and the view of many scientists that the world is generally mathematics. Do you have some kind of assessment of how much money you really need to fix these buildings, even in part? You said here that there are exceptionally few resources and very little is done, despite the EUR 1 million being distributed each year. Is it possible to estimate how many hundred million or several dozen million are needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U17	Thank you. That's a good question! Unfortunately, I don't know how much money I need. But there is always a question of how much [to be given] can be. I said we have about a small third, 64% of the buildings in good or satisfactory condition. If we put the heritage reserves and the heart of the city there, which is meant by applying for the flexibility of the current draft, so that it can be kept and valued by looking at the whole picture, I really cannot [can] tell you how much more money would be needed. It is quite clear that if we added 10 million every year, I am afraid it would make the picture much better, but certainly in the near future it would not solve the problem so that we can say that everything is going to shine like a spectaclestone. I myself have been in our dignified county centers, such as Kuressaare, Haapsalu and Viljandi, looking at everything with that look. And having been born in Haapsalu, I feel this need very clearly in fact. When one building owner takes the initiative to make the most of it, it shines like a diamond in the middle and attracts attention, but in fact, all buildings should be so [nice]. It shouldn't be like somehow this one owner looks extra. In this sense, I think we should make an effort, but unfortunately, I don't know how to tell you this absolute value.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U18	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U19	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I believe that there are no people in this Chamber who would not want cultural values to be in order for us to be happy, for our grandchildren and for all [others in the future] to see. However, I am very sad that this bill contains a contradiction. We oppose those people who, after the Soviet occupation, have been in the state of a forced tenant, who are later left without housing, and now I understand that this bill seeks to expand this circle of beneficiaries. As you said, there will be no reduction in the amount of the right! However, there is no increase. Have you thought that, in my opinion, a cross-party agreement could be found and [start] a programme to preserve cultural goods with separate money? It'll probably find more support in this hall. I don't like this contrast. It is analogous that we cannot increase child benefits because pensions have to rise. But both of them need help.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U20	Thank you. In fact, we have not opposed it, the Ministry of Finance opposed it in a letter stating why it cannot be done. We have not brought it out in this form. We have now accepted this knowledge. Indeed, these are priorities, these are the amounts available, and we are trying to deliver them flexibly, looking for the best solution. Really, like I said, maybe one, two, three objects in these city centers would get support and somehow get fixed. But I very much agree with you that it is worth making a cross-party agreement to create a fund from which we can systematically support individual objects as well as buildings located in heritage conservation areas. I'm sure it's worth doing. I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U21	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U22	Thank you, Honourable President-in-Office. Good waitress! Surely there is a soap bill that is in the right direction. The need for money in this area is certainly tens of times greater than that unfortunate 1 million, but it is a good thing that there is money. What I'm asking is that your bill only deals with those returned architectural monuments that remain inside the heritage reserve. Why have you excluded those returned monuments that are outside these heritage reserves?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U23	Thank you. No, we haven't actually [leave]. The focus of our draft is to find and support buildings that are not separate monuments of heritage conservation. In fact, they will receive [the money] once they have been returned. We're just talking about returning, here's the important moment of this return, then they're qualifying for 1 million today. But it is not possible to use this money if we are talking about buildings in heritage conservation areas, which are subject to milieu precepts, but which are not in themselves monuments. I'd like to support them, too. This amount is so small that you simply cannot add too many [objects] to it. We can put the right little flexibility in there. If we had 10 million or more, we could talk about nuances. I don't know, I don't think there's any point in dreaming of more money right now. There's not much to talk about nuances with such a small amount of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U24	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U25	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! There have been repeated talks about this problem of forced tenants. The city of Tallinn announced on 5 August 2009 that the problem of forced tenants in Tallinn had been solved. Now, this reserve of forced tenants has been used very differently. Is there any other argument that the government has put forward at the moment? Well, if we run out of forced tenants, we're gonna get more or something. It's like an ancient, enduring competition. But there was also some [talk], when should the problem of forced tenants of the government be solved in Estonia? It will be resolved in Tallinn by 5 August 2009.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U26	Thank you, good questioner! I really don't want to contrast the current one with the forced tenants. But I am not, of course, prepared to sacrifice our heritage or monuments and our culture so that we can say that we [sacrifice] to remedy what the occupying authorities did, our monuments and cultural values. Of course, I don't agree with that. But I really don't want to stress this extra contrast. I was particularly saddened by the paragraph in this opinion on the draft law, where the government says that it does not see the end of the current issue of forced tenants either. It is said that we cannot afford this flexibility because we have this [problem] unsolved. If Mari has not received the school mathematics "viit," then Jüri also cannot get the candy, because Mari has not received the mathematics school "viit." Well, that's not a serious reason. But what makes me particularly sad is that, on the one hand, it is said that there is very little money and that less and less will come from privatisation. And we have come up with other priority tasks, of which it is now important to implement a country-wide support measure for the restructuring of housing in regions with a declining population. This is one of the measures to mitigate the negative consequences of the transition reform, as highlighted by the Government of the Republic. Well, it's all artificially added here! It simply shows the unwillingness to deal with the problem and is looking for new reasons to say no, even if the amount is not asked for. And that makes me sad. It could be said that it is, indeed, even vicious about our cultural goods. I asked directly, when we had a debate in the Commission, whether you guys wanted to take away the last cent, or the 1 million, figuratively, in order to tackle the problem that the Government of the Republic should be doing anyway in order to preserve and promote rural areas. Will you take away [the last one] now? Then they freaked themselves out, and they said, no, no, we're not gonna take that million now. But it shows attitude, and that's why I'm really sad.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U27	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U28	Good waitress! Of course, every resource is also needed in pieces. But did you discuss a broader plan on how to finance heritage conservation in connection with the bill? Because the [necessary] amounts for particularly large heritage reserves would be very large. On the other hand, a small amount of aid could be provided to the farm architecture, for example, the roof project has been very successful. Just put on a few million more, and we can fix a couple hundred roofs again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U29	Thank you. Unfortunately, we did not have this debate, and I must say that it is the Committee on Economic Affairs that is actually coordinating the use of this money. A good colleague, Helmen Hunter, came up with an idea. I do hope that the Committee on Culture could also be here [deciding], because this is an area under the administration of the Ministry of Culture. The Committee on Culture could show some activity so that we can really qualitatively still do a little more than the present one is actually done with these super nappies. And that thought, which you pointed out, deserves to be promoted in any case. This is why it makes sense to finish the first reading and to discuss the draft during the second reading, also receiving input from the Committee on Culture. Maybe really make it better and, for example, form part of this big fund that will motivate our people, the owners to make an effort. It would also be such a thank-you for expressing certain solidarity from society that society notices it, society values everything you do when you clean up your building. This would be crucial, really, not always need aid to be very much. In the case of roofs, this is basic support. When something starts to fall apart on the roof, the building is actually doomed to destruction. If it is not noticed at the right time or if the owner has no opportunity to do anything, life has shown that the results are very sad.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U30	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U31	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Heiki! In this draft, did you also discuss the bigger picture of how heritage conservation issues should be shared in Estonia? When I was a minister, I started quietly pushing the subject so that I didn't think the Ministry of the Environment would have to deal with national heritage conservation objects, nor did RMK, who had other tasks. I have no doubt that RMK can do a lot of things, so the Ministry of Social Affairs can do the job. They can do it if they have to. I have no doubt about that. But I think it's totally wrong right now. In fact, all state-owned heritage conservation objects should be clearly transferred to the National Heritage Board to deal with them and, of course, resources. They have nothing to do if they do not have the means to do so, but today it is completely confused and in fact the state does not have a clear list of priorities in what order state-owned heritage conservation objects really need renovation and rescue. Was it a debate on how to clean it up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U32	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, it was not directly this debate. However, I would really say that in any case I agree with the idea that it needs organisation and reflection in the country. Why hasn't the state, if we're going to include RMK here, made that commitment? It's kind of like playing hide-and-seek on the one hand. They understand very well that RMK has financial resources, they have a system, they can actually contribute. Of course, the sad story is that the country, which is bigger than RMK, is not bigger than the state, RMK is one, I would dare say, though important, but still a small part of the country, [is unable to do so]. If RMK is able to do so, why can't the state, and why has the state not systematically thought this through? Why?! It is particularly embarrassing to ask why state-owned objects are also falling apart and why [the money] cannot be put into it. It should be the country that sets an example for the private owner by its behaviour. That's the way it should be. But we did not have this debate. And I think that the reason for the absence of this debate was precisely that the draft was directed at the Committee on Economic Affairs and that this problem was seen relatively narrowly. This is, in my opinion, the narrow vision, when we look at the big picture, the whole field of heritage protection or the financing of related activities, [typical]. At times, you see a very narrow picture, are not prepared to think about or make an effort to get a bigger picture. So this point is actually very correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U33	Thank you. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U34	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U35	Let's go to the co-report. I invite Mikhail Korb, member of the Economic Commission, to the Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 18 April. Seven people, members of the Commission, took part in the meeting. The bill was introduced by Heiki Hepner. Anniku Riibe, Senior Specialist of the Treasury Department, also participated in the meeting. The rapporteur presented the draft in detail, exactly as he did in this Chamber. Ms Ribe presented the position of the Ministry of Finance, which stated that the draft law was not supported by the Ministry of Finance. This is due to a reduction in the amount of money received by this fund. This was followed by a general debate on the need to restore heritage conservation objects. Finally, decisions were made: it was decided to place the draft on the plenary agenda on 5 May, today, and to propose that the draft be rejected. There were seven people for it and one against.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U37	No questions asked. Thank you very much. In that case, I will open negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul has expressed her wish to speak. Please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors! I really liked the way Aivar Kokk talked about finance and taxes and, more generally, the price of electricity. But we certainly cannot support today's bill. And I don't really know how many times it really is, when Isamaa starts manipulating and I'd say, hustling property reform reserve fund money. This time for taverns, squirts and coachhouses and manors. However, I recall that the Act on the basis of the property reform was passed in 1991. And this reserve fund, the property reform reserve fund, was created precisely to help those unfortunate people we call forced tenants who lost their homes with the reform. In the past, they were holders of an apartment or other dwelling, since under the law at the time they had been issued a warrant, i.e. the right to use a dwelling for an unlimited period. And if you remember, that was a total lucky lottery. We were all just as poor as you guys were in the showroom, I can't talk like that! The rich and the rich. We were all the same. And it was really luck or accident, how it all turned out: who was able to privatise their dwelling and who was brought to the street under the laws of our country because a owner or a distant relative came out of somewhere. And we remember how this circle of heirs was expanded and expanded dozens of times. It has been claimed that these Russian laws are no longer relevant here. Well, if it doesn't, then we'll also cancel the university diploma or the marriage registration certificate. With the money that the Fatherland now wants to put his hands on, this injustice of property reform should actually be remedied, not divided into pieces for his circle of friends. To this conclusion that the ownership reform was unjust and that injustice must be corrected for people, very recently, if you remember, the research team of scientists and experts who worked for over two years under the leadership of Professor Erik Terk. I quote: tenants living in former owners and their heirs' buildings, as a social group, were not treated in the same way as other people living on state-owned premises in the course of the ownership reform, who could privatise this area. Major problems have been created and these problems must be remedied today. That's what they say in the analysis of the expert group, the group. If it weren't for the people who lived in these houses for 50 years and cared for them, I know very well as a resident of Nõmme, which all was done, they would have become completely worthless over time. They would be zero, they wouldn't be anymore, nothing could have been returned. But these unfortunate people also stood in the Song Festival Square, they dug the cable ditches, they were in the Baltic Way, still for Estonia to be free. But as a result of the political decision of the country, these people were made homeless in the rule of law. There are dozens of thousands of these families. You guys are always busy, I can't talk to the waitress. What we need to do now in this Chamber is to discuss how we can make up for the mistakes that were made at the time. Better late than never. Instead, the Fatherland must slip here now and act bypassing the state budget. It's no good at all. This reserve fund simply does not give some men peace and it is pointed out that there is less and less money coming from privatisation and that it is now high time to change priorities. The bill says a million every year, that's all we need. The fact that this bill is not a burden on the state budget is reciteed. But then comes out of the state budget [with discussion], if these questions are. Four years ago, there was a bill here where they wanted not to make amends with the same money, but instead to give them sumamed to demolish Kohtla-Järve apartment buildings. It was also intended to give money to the monastery of Petseri, which remained in Russia during the war. Luckily, this bill failed in this hall. And when you say that these heritage objects are falling apart and that they need money, that's how it is, yes, to save them from destruction, then in their time, these assets were desperately sought out. No one forced the property to take over, and it was very well known what the owner's duties involved in managing and maintaining the property. It was really covetous, nobody told me to take it. And when you took the property, you had to know what was in it. And there's no need to just beg again from the stock of property reform right now. I think this bill, too, will be a disgrace to our history. Then let future generations look and think that instead of asking the forced tenants to forgive and compensate for their suffering, you want to shine the carriages for this money. You are now seeing how difficult it is for those Ukrainians who have lost their home during the war. But forced tenants were evicted during peacetime with the laws of Estonia as a rule of law. In any case, the Centre Party cannot support this draft, and we also reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U39	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U40	Honourable President! Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, the subject of heritage conservation is very close to my heart. Indeed, in the last 30 years, many buildings under heritage protection have been returned to owners or their descendants. In addition, houses that are indeed located in the heritage reserve have been returned, but are not directly protected as monuments. We actually have to bow down to the owners that in this 30 year period, this property has been returned to the owners, and it has been kept in good order. If you're walking around in our old towns under heritage protection, the whole picture is really pretty. Of course, there are also some sad examples where, for various reasons, the owner has mistreated his protected property, but these are indeed few bad exceptions and the overall picture is quite good. By the way, there is currently a process of establishing protection regimes for heritage protected areas, where all buildings located in the heritage conservation area are screened in isolation, placed in the respective value groups and, in the case of such less valuable buildings, all works, such as interior work, are no longer required to be coordinated with heritage conservation. So here already the owners get some relief. This process is ongoing and will certainly continue in the coming years, so that all these heritage protected areas will have new protection regimes. Now, coming to this bill, it is undoubtedly, as I said before, a very correct initiative in the very right direction. We can, of course, argue, and we have to argue, whether this is the right place to give money. Maybe there are better solutions. Certainly this EUR 1 million is actually a drop in the sea. Our legacy needs to be mended, I say, apparently hundreds of millions of euros. But every euro in this sector is worth gold, and I actually very much support this idea. And even though we can argue about this source of funding, the state and the municipalities have already given quite a lot of money to owners through various support measures, and this has really helped to fix and maintain the heritage. But this need, as I said, is greater than ever. I think it really should be thought that it might be wise to make some major public support fund and to channel some proper sums there in the coming years, so that all of this would also be useful, so that we do not just sort out the buildings that are under heritage protection, but can make proper integrated reforms. This could be one of the proposals that could be discussed with regard to the state budget for the following year. I think it could be more supportive in this Chamber. But quite finally, I have a personal comment. I argue that the Estonian state has one honourable debt. We are saying that among the buildings under heritage protection, there is a true pearl that is waiting to be repeated once and for all. This is one of our oldest churches, the Pöide Church of Saaremaa. Yeah, there's money in it, but there's a lot to do. It's a little embarrassing that in 30 years we haven't been able to complete this 800-year-old temple. This debt of honour could certainly be liquidated in the coming years. Such thoughts and views. Let us hope that the area of heritage conservation really gets more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U41	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U42	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good workmates who are so lukewarm here in the early hours! What problems did the Fatherland face? The Fatherland went to solve the fact that we have some buildings that are monuments and can apply for money, others that are not listed there, and so they can't. Yes, the Fatherland is of the opinion that each owner must, after having been returned to him [the property], care for it]. But we know he can sell his property and he'll have a new owner. The first assumption, which may be that the good faiths and the simplest ones who want to preserve our cultural diversity to some extent, is that [if the property] has such [strength] conditions, then the state will come to the aid. Today, these owners actually need the most partner in the form of a country that doesn't just get you in control of how much you have wrong, so you don't qualify. This person should leave [say] that we fixed these and these conditions, and now this building should qualify to be restored. That's the idea of a bill. Part's out right now, they just can't. Well, let's just say, let me give you a simpler example. When we're talking about poultry and support, someone comes from somewhere and says the cock doesn't matter, the chicken is. We understand that, but how is it that these rooster growers are, to some extent, just like these chicken farmers, figuratively speaking? This property reform story is pretty interesting. I liked the previous composition of the Committee on Economic Affairs, where all this was discussed. Then we had a good and interesting coalition. It was the Fatherland's wish that the repressed should not show the compensation for its bus ticket on a monthly basis at all times, with money being allocated from the same fund. The second part of this compromise was that we [considered] among the repressed also those who participated here in the eradication of the Chernobyl disaster, who were not citizens of the Republic of Estonia and who also did not receive any related support from other countries. It came from the same privatization money. The problem of forced tenants was solved by the city of Tallinn by 5 August 2009, but how is it in the rest of Estonia? When did this return start? This is very incomprehensible to this disunity and how it has been desired to do so. The money from the privatization fund also went to dismantle apartment buildings with scattered settlements in [regions]. And, of course, the great [proposal] was immediately on the part of the Social Democrats that we are now making rental homes. Maybe there were some houses where people couldn't pay rent, people had moved out, houses broke down. Now we find it perfectly right to pay off this fund to push those old houses on their side, and then we'll build new houses there. It's just a question: but if the people who lived there before couldn't pay, how are they gonna get there now? And where do they want to live anyway? Returning to this bill: we need it to preserve something. We know what prices we have on our estates. Everyone may say it's good, I want to fix this building, but how, how I get support. But it doesn't qualify. The month of heritage protection began on April 18th and lasts until May 18. It was pretty bad to hear that there were a series of fairyery attacks, and a few more of them were practically talced. So these were buildings that didn't go under heritage protection. Well, we remember those Preaton Ghost barracks. All he had to do was have gloves and some soup, people had to come and fix that object. People manipulating money like this have the ability to make things right themselves. But [there are also] those who have received nothing in good faith and find no solution because they do not qualify for any support. And we're looking, it's falling apart, and it's falling apart. Once the roof's gone and there's no more building at all, there's no problem. We need action! Thank you! Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U43	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject draft 538 at first reading. We must vote on this and, before the vote, make a call to the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote the draft proposal by the commission of reference to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-05_U44	The rejection is supported by 36 delegates, 17 against, no abstentions. The rejection was supported and the draft has fallen out of the procedure. That's how it went. And now we're adjourned.
