ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good afternoon! We will begin the Monday session of the 5th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Let's try to make all days Valentine's Day, just like today. Happy Valentine's Day! First of all, I would ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries to come here to the Riigikogu Chair and, of course, to signal it before. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the security situation is serious, there is still a question to be asked about. Today, I will present to the Prime Minister a question on behalf of the Group [Estonia] Conservative People's Party ambassadors concerning the renewal of the foundations of security policy. The previous security policy bases were approved in 2017 and the security situation has now deteriorated significantly. The State Chancellery has been informed by [the Riigikogu] National Defence Committee that in spring, in May, the new foundations of security policy will arrive for us in this large hall. But our role should not be simply the role of a rubber stamp that approves them. With the 'Estonia 2035' strategy, we did so in such a way that its security policy part came out empty and nothing, and it does not take into account the negative changes that have taken place in the meantime in the security environment. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Our constructive proposals for improvement, which we made there for an increase in defence spending to 2.6% and for performance improvements, were all ignored. We should not repeat the same mistake with this document here, but, from the very beginning, actively intervene in this process, which we are now trying to do. This is where such insufficient or insufficient input came into the National Defence Development Plan, which was drawn up within a framework of 2%, which we should not have done at the moment. That is why we have seven questions for the Prime Minister concerning the renewal of the foundations of this same security policy: what will be [being] the content of what we are doing there with the defence costs that we are writing there, and how will we proceed with this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U3	You gonna hand it over?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U4	I will.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U5	You sure?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U6	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U7	Mr. Pier is on board and that's it? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U8	Hello! Hello, what's going on here? Aren't you ashamed? By attacking the Estonian police, you attack [you actually] the Estonian state. This was the use of the word of our Prime Minister when, in the last Question Time, Mr Helme asked the Prime Minister why the police administration ordered his subordinates to violate the Constitution, according to which every citizen has the right to protest. It has now become known that the police's leadership has committed a new violation in the sense of the Constitution. On 7 February, a case was published in the media where Prefect Vallo Koppel of the Precinct in the South reduced or failed to pay the performance fees of police officers working under his authority because the policemen went shopping outside Estonia. The message from Prefect to the officials was that it is unethical to withdraw money from Estonia as a state official. In connection with this, the Estonian Conservative People's Party wishes to submit an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan, regarding the legality of the activities of the police leader [about]. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We want to know whether and under what laws police officers are prevented from deciding about their own leisure and use of money and so on and so on and so forth and so forth. Or is it a test of the new world order of police officers, the great reset? Are the police officers gonna pull it out or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U9	Thank you. I now request the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The security situation in Europe is extremely difficult and it also concerns the Republic of Estonia. The psychological protection of the population plays an important role in a broad-based national defence approach. The Estonian state is protected if our defence sector also takes into account the impact of the information environment and the influence of hostile information. Given the intense security situation and Russia's aggressive influence in neighbouring countries, today's legislation and measures concerning hostile [Russian] television channels in the Republic of Estonia that encourage war activity must also be reviewed. The Defence Police have also pointed out that Russia treats television channels controlled by the Kremlin as state information weapons. Therefore, the Isamaa Group presents the Riigikogu's decision "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to prevent anti-Estonian propaganda" to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. I hope that the Riigikogu will deal with this quickly and constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U11	Henn Põllamas, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U12	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I have a question about our work in the Riigikogu. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The EKRE Group invited the Minister for the Interior of the Group, Kristian Jaani, to discuss various issues. The result was, unfortunately, that Jaani replied that he was not going to come to us in a group because we have asked him a question here, and we will probably get the answers. After all, this question of understanding concerns other subjects, is finite, narrow, what you can ask, what you can't ask. Is it really the case that ministers dictate to us when they want to respond to the invitation of members of the Riigikogu and when do they want to reject it? This series of topics that would need to be discussed with [the] Minister of the Interior is very broad. As Chairman of the Riigikogu, how do you view such a superior and arrogantic approach or behaviour of ministers? And is there anything you can do to prevent such incidents from happening in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U13	Thank you. I do not know how to dissect a particular case, but I do know that, for example, I hope that I remember correctly the Special Committee on State Budget Control has asked ministers to go to committees. By extending this, I say that the members of the government, when the political groups call, I think I should definitely come to the political groups. The time must be agreed and the issues discussed. That is how I feel: I think that, in any case, members of the government should go to Riigikogu committees and political groups. Okay. We don't have any more calls right now, but we have requests to speak. You can't now... Uh, first there is, Helir-Valdor Seeder, your procedural question and then your wish to speak. Please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U14	Thank you. I have a procedural proposal to resolve the issue raised. As we know, the committees have a format such as the joint session, which can also be applied to political groups. As far as I know, the Minister of the Interior is attending the meetings of the Central Party Group, so that this possibility may solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U15	Thank you. This can be fully discussed by the Board of Elders in order to hold such a joint session of the extended political groups [for those] who, of course, would like to do so. Okay. It is now that I have adopted a draft decision on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu and two enquiries, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U16	80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21. We are now on the agenda. The agenda is divided. I will put to the vote, good colleagues, the approval of the 5th working week agenda of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Before taking a position and voting, we will also make a hall call. But sometimes there's some procedure. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U17	Thank you. I thought today's Valentine's Day would be a good time to present the first procedure. It seems to me that the second item on the agenda, where there is an inquiry into the loss of staff, is a minor misleading mistake. The subject was the loss of personnel, not the loss of personnel. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U18	Thank you. First of all, the first part of your procedural question. I must say, however, that [you] were not the first, Helir-Valdor Seeder was also the first in the verbatim terms of [main], when he suggested that the EKRE and the Centre Party should have a joint meeting of the political groups, and I said that it could also be extended. Now, the other half of your procedural question. Yes, if I have a question to make at the moment, which has been made on 18 January 2022, this title is entitled 'Personal loss in the field of defence'. I understand what you have pointed out, and thank you for that. So I hope we can go on with this, but attention has been drawn. Now, Paul Pulpland, please, your procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U19	Thank you very much. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I have this question that here on Wednesday, the ninth point is 507 SE's second reading. This is where he is written, but, as far as I know, and this is on the basis of the public media, the Commission has refused to discuss amendments. Now there is a situation that the Commission refused to discuss the amendments and that it has also been put on the agenda, is it not a violation of the Rules of Procedure [of the law] and should this point not be deleted?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U20	Thank you. As far as I know, there has been a debate in the Commission. And these documents, I hope I'm not wrong now, but the deadline for submitting them is probably 17:00 today. Mr. Pulpland, I hope my information is correct. I understand Mr. Kaalep is helping here too, so thank you. It seems that this issue has been resolved. That was good cooperation right now, thank you! So, no more procedural issues, let's start preparing the vote on the adoption of the agenda. But the reaction is good, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U21	Thank you. I assumed there would be a presence check before the agenda issues came up. But I really do have a question about the agenda and then a proposal. The question is traditional: why do we have a crucial national issue on the agenda on Tuesday when there is very limited working time that comes from the Rules of Procedure Act and we cannot extend it very much? And when we look at the Bureau's proposal for this item on the agenda, 30 minutes is the time for the Foreign Minister's presentation, 90 minutes for questions, add together, we get 120 minutes, two hours. Then the co-rapporteur [time] is 15 minutes and [questions] 30 minutes, a total of 45 minutes. That's two hours 45 minutes. Our regular hours are three hours. We cannot even include political group speeches in regular working hours. Well, probably the hall is ready to extend working time by an hour, then the representatives of the political groups can also take the floor and perhaps one or two members of the Riigikogu will be able to speak during the negotiations. That's the maximum. We are again planning the item so that we exclude members of the Riigikogu from participating in this debate. Are the national issues of importance so minor that we do not give the floor to the members of the Riigikogu? Consequently, I have the proposal to move this item to either Monday, today, if we can work until midnight, or Wednesday, if we do not have the closing time and we can work until the agenda is exhausted. But I resolutely protest against this agenda being drawn up, and this is a recurring approach. In my opinion, this is not a respectful attitude towards members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U22	Thank you. I'm trying to answer your procedural question. It is very likely why it is Tuesday, February 15th, that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have communicated with each other and found it to be the best, hardly the only possible, but the best suitable time for the minister. Now what you are referring to, this two hours and 45 minutes, I share this criticism. There are quite a few reasons why this is so. Yeah, you're right. The Tuesday session lasts three hours, and if the majority of the members of the Riigikogu so wish, an hour can be extended. I think that, as a rule, these key national issues have been either on Tuesdays or Thursdays. I have no better answer for you. We have not planned other items on Tuesday precisely so that an in-depth debate can take place. What you are proposing is whether it could be on the agenda today or on Wednesday, I will, in any case, take this proposal under discussion once the procedural questions are over. A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U23	Good manager! Mr Seeder rejected its content. But my question is: it is said that the war will start on Wednesday, but if on Tuesday we cannot speak or very few can, is it taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U24	I don't consider it a procedural question. I think we're all thinking God would let this war not start. Mart Networker, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U25	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I declare that we do not agree with Mr Seeder's proposal to change this week's agenda. In fact, I do not see a major problem here, because the practice of the Riigikogu has been crucial to discuss national issues mostly on Thursdays. Last Thursday also showed me that we didn't miss the time, but we had more time to work, but the questions were asked and the speeches were made and the hearing was over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U26	Thank you. So Helir-Valdor Seeder's proposal to change the agenda was not supported at the moment and, consequently, I will start preparing the vote on the adoption of the agenda. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the fifth working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U27	With the result of 61 abstentions, 11 abstentions and 3 abstentions, the agenda for the fifth working week of the VII session was approved and confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U28	Let's start the agenda now. The first item on the agenda of this day is the request for compensation for energy bills submitted on 12 January 2022 by members of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa, Anti Polandmets, Henn Põlluaasa, Alar Laneman, Riho Breiveli, Jaak Valge, Paul Puustusmaa and Reuben Kaalepi. An inquiry shall bear number 108. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the question. Please ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, member of the Riigikogu Peeter Ernitsa, to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public. Please, Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U29	Good manager! Prime Minister! Time flows and circumstances change, specify. On 12 January, my colleagues and I asked you a number of questions about [Estonia] Conservative People's Party, nine of them. And I admit that there have been several of them since 12 January, I am not saying that it has lost its importance, but there have been a number of new questions. I hope that the Prime Minister will take this into account in his answers and in their extensions. For example, one of our questions was that it is estimated that over 800,000 people, i.e. 380,000 families, must go to ask for support, but the information I have is that, in fact, only 53000 families have actually asked for [grant] at the moment, whereas 380000 were according to the plan. It's kind of a nuance. Why is that? And the other, which has recently turned out that 53000 families should, as in the case of a tax return, wait until April, otherwise it might happen that this [grant] is considered to be the beneficiary's income and problems, according to someone's instructions from the Ministry of Finance. It's kind of another little nuance. I'm not going to read all these questions. I think it's the last question. In 1995, your esteemed father, Siim Kallas, wrote in the manifesto of the citizen state: "I am in favour of and seek a country that does not rule over the holy and almighty Citizen. A country that doesn't look in the Citizen's locker, behind the locker, or climb into the bedroom, not to mention the nursery. A country that does not take for granted the citizen's finances and does not follow his bank account. I am applying for a country that citizens have created for themselves, not a country that either tolerates or dislikes its citizens in terms of grace. " The question is, why have you, Prime Minister, made a country that looks behind a citizen's locker and closet, and a country that goes for granted on the citizen's finances and wants to monitor his bank account? I look forward to your answers to these questions and I hope that you will also answer them with a bit of expansion, given that it has been over a month since we were asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U30	Thank you. I now ask the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas of the Riigikogu's speech chair to answer this question, which bears number 108. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U31	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the question. So, first of all, the first question: "Why do only people whose income is less than EUR 1126 per month, when electricity kW costs more than 12 cents, the price of gas is more than 4.9 cents, and the price of district heating is more than 7.8 cents? " First of all, we have put together two types of support measures: firstly, those measures that go beyond those that do not need to be applied for and, secondly, those targeted at families that might have a greater need for it. In summary, it can be said that Estonia's measures to mitigate the rise in energy prices are among the most generous in Europe when calculating the proportion of gross domestic product, they are the most long-term, i.e. some measures last as much as seven months, and they are also the most diverse, because we support not only the increase in electricity prices but also the people hit by the rise in the price of district heating of natural gas. More specifically, we have put in place the following measures: The 50% reduction in the electricity network fee, which concerns both natural and legal persons, is automatically reflected in the bill. Secondly, the loss of the gas network fee, which concerns both natural persons and legal persons, is automatically reflected in the account. Third, the price cap for household customers of 12 cents per kilowatt-hour for electricity consumption up to 650 kilowatt-hours is automatically reflected in the bill. Price cap for household customers EUR 65 per megawatt-hour, the excess of which is 100% compensated by the State until consumption of 2.75 megawatt-hours. This is also automatically reflected in the invoice. In addition, the measure targets households with an income per capita below the median wage, i.e. gas, electricity and heating are compensated for 80% of the increase in energy costs. This applies from September to March, also retroactively. Now, your complaint from this remote control is that too few people have requested it. I would say that it is a good thing that electricity prices have gone down in the meantime, that there is not so much need for support and that people can handle themselves. With automatic subsidies, household electricity bills were nearly 20% lower in January than they would have been without these automatic subsidies. For a family with a monthly gas consumption of 200 kilowatt-hours, the total figure for January is close to 46%. The second question: "Why did the government decide to make half of Estonia's people eligible for social assistance? Why did the government opt for such an intensive and time - consuming activity? " The argument put forward in the question already does not hold true because, as I said, we have a very diverse, very broad package of support measures, both automatic and quick and targeted, which must be applied for. Third: In order to apply for support, the person submits a written application with additional documents. Here is a list of all the documents that can be submitted. But it is a list of different provisions of the Regulation and it does not describe the complexity of submitting an application for support based on needs. In fact, just as in the tax return, when you apply for a refund of income tax, you can mark it if you do not have such income, such as income earned abroad, and you do not need to submit this document. Local authorities have done a very good job. These application systems are designed to be sufficiently user-friendly and have already partially pre-filled cells, but it should be borne in mind that this was done quite quickly for the IT solution. I can also say from the example of Tartu that applications were processed very quickly. An application for support was submitted electronically at the beginning of January and physically from 11 January onwards. Indeed, the first allowances were paid to the people on 13 January. Today we know that the average amount to be paid out for targeted measures has been EUR 163. Fourthly, "What is the scope for the officials to interpret and what points do you consider to be the highest risk? " Answer: The rules of procedure are largely similar to income support, which is a common practice for municipalities. The decision to grant the grant shall be taken by the officials of the municipalities in accordance with the procedures laid down. The regulation, guidelines and guidelines are comprehensive. There is no reason to believe that municipal officials pay grants with very different practices. Of course, situations may arise that are not covered by the grant regulation. In such a case, the official must take a decision on the matter, but we have recommended that the situation be interpreted in favour of the applicant, if possible. We expect that there will be few such situations. Fifthly, should the government not compensate for energy prices evenly for a fixed amount for each adult? It would be easier to arrange, and people could get the money faster? " As I have already answered the first question, energy price adjustment support measures are of two kinds. One is automatic measures for all households, and the other is needs-based applications, where the application and support are to be submitted according to [application]. Sixth: "Why are incomes not included in the income referred to in subsections 133 (2) and 133 (3) of the Social Welfare Act, including benefits received from close relatives in full? " Answer: The need-based support for energy price increases aims to compensate for the increase in energy prices for families whose average net income is below the median level. Other subsidies paid by the State or local authority are also targeted and targeted to meet specific aid needs. Reading these benefits among family incomes would not serve the purpose of the need for assistance, inter alia, in the case of energy support. Seventhly, do people who have left the second pillar of pension, whose monthly income is less than EUR 1126 but who have been paid out during the grant period, not qualify for support at present? " Answer: If money taken out of the second pillar of the pension comes in the month in which the grant is applied for and the income rises by payout over the median salary, i.e. over EUR 1126, no need-based support can be asked for this month. The payment of the second pillar does not affect the receipt of automatic grants. Eighth: "The state pays 7.44 euros to the local government for each procedure. Does this cover their actual costs? " Compensation for municipalities is calculated on the basis of 20 minutes' time. This was discussed with the municipalities and it was realised that this average time was adequate. All procedural costs have been taken into account. If a person applies for support for several months, the official cannot reject the application on the grounds that it is more financially advantageous for the municipalities to do so by one month. Ninth: "In 1995, Siim Kallas wrote in the manifesto of the citizen state: "I am in favour of and seek a country that does not rule over the holy and almighty Citizen. A country that doesn't look in the Citizen's locker, behind the locker, or climb into the bedroom, not to mention the nursery. A country that does not take for granted the citizen's finances and does not follow his bank account. I am applying for a country that citizens have created for themselves, not a country that either tolerates or dislikes its citizens in terms of grace. " Why, as Prime Minister, you have made a country that looks behind a citizen's closet and closet [... ]? " On the contrary, my government and also the party respect the privacy of people, the right to protect their data. I will also sign the citizens' state manifesto with two hands. We have pursued all these principles regardless of whether we are in opposition or whether we are in government responsibility. Thus, a bank extract is not asked for when applying for the required support, which is properly completed and submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U32	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U33	Good manager! Prime Minister! Quick and clear answers, but I am now asking about [the] thing: this 53000 families and the filing of a tax return. The Ministry of Finance recommends that [with the request of the grant] wait until April, otherwise the grant is considered to be income, [therefore] better than to squirm. Do you think that's a good idea? [[There's talk in the hall.]] Yeah, let's talk about now. Is it a wise idea that the state behaves this way? On the one hand, the Ministry of Finance will support you, but on the other hand, the Ministry of Finance will pawn you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U34	Thank you. I do not know what recommendations the Tax Administration or the Ministry of Finance is making at the moment, but in general, people's income is also listed in the Tax Administration Act and Income Tax Act, which are included and not included in the Income Tax Act. That's the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U35	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! On 24 January, you responded to a similar question on energy price compensation, as you have today. Then I asked you what aid measures, in addition to reducing network charges, the government is planning to support Estonian entrepreneurs [to establish], especially small businesses, family entrepreneurs are struggling with rising electricity prices and urgently need help. Your answer was, I now quote from the verbatim: "... ) that it will happen within a week? It would have been my wish that this would have happened within a week, I hope it will be in this perspective [... ]'. I would now ask: quite a few weeks have passed, do you have a support measure for Estonian entrepreneurs? If, in Finland, the exchange electricity costs 20 euros and we have 200 euros, then it is clear that the competitiveness of our companies has been damaged, not because of the companies themselves or because of some force majeure, but rather because of the poor energy policy of the country. In other words, do you now have a price compensation measure for companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U37	Thank you. Firstly, I would like to adjust: yesterday the price of electricity on the Estonian stock exchange was 24 euros per megawatt-hour and in some hours even 10 euros per megawatt-hour. 200 [EUR] is currently inadequate. But yes, I answered you in this way, because it has really been a desire to support entrepreneurs. The problem is that there are very clear restrictions on supporting businesses and these restrictions are linked to state aid rules, to the competitive situation. It has placed limits on what can be done and what cannot be done. So, yes, for companies, we did take certain measures, for example, to compensate for gas or electricity grid charges, which will help more consumers because network charges are linked to consumption. But, unfortunately, we cannot take such extensive measures as we can do to people who are entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U38	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U39	Thank you, good Chairman! Prime Minister! By introducing these support measures, you clearly recognise that the rise in electricity prices is a major problem for many people to cope with, and this leads to the conclusion that you also recognise that there is a market failure. A liberal world view, historically characteristic of the Reform Party, as I understand it, says that the market should itself put everything in place, and the payment of subsidies is rather something that should be avoided. Rather, people should be given a line, not a fish, [that is] the way I understand it. In the current situation, are you rather forced by a coalition partner, or have you, under the pressure of circumstances, made concessions in this liberal worldview of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U40	Thank you. I haven't made any concessions in the worldview. We looked at a situation where the sharp rise in energy prices hit everyone very painfully and also very unexpectedly. It is the duty of the state to help people at the moment when it is very difficult for them to share these hooks at the time. It was important for people to be able to cope at that moment. If we look at the fact that these measures have actually worked, people's bills have gone down, it is clear that we cannot pay such subsidies in the long term, but we need to think about how we can bring down prices through increased competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U41	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I don't think it's a good tone when you say "my government" from the Riigikogu board. This is our government you're in charge of. That's a first, but that's not a question. The question is that the payment of the [grant] to the people takes place ex post. But if we have such mistakes, as was the case now, that 500 people did not pay their pension, I don't know what you think these people are gonna be able to pay their bills.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U43	Thank you. First of all, I didn't say "my government," I said "government." I do not really use such expressions, but 'government', and that the government has taken such steps. Now, when it comes to the home delivery of pensions, it was indeed an extremely unpleasant story, an extremely regrettable case for which apologies were apologised and an attempt was made to resolve this situation quickly. Indeed, in a situation where prices are high, there should be no uncertainty that the pension will not arrive on time. The Minister of Social Protection deals [first] with resolving the situation and getting his pension well, second, resolving this insecurity, and thirdly, who is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U44	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U45	Thank you. Prime Minister! You said it would be good if people did not apply for benefits. It is possible that this is good here in Tallinn, and it is also good for the state budget. But for them there, far from Tallinn, it certainly is not good. Rather, as far as I have been communicating with people, people do not apply because it is confusing and bureaucratic and therefore do not apply. The other thing is that we often adopt laws in such a way that the result is unanalysed or unpredictable. That is why I ask this question: how are the activities of bailiffs regulated? Is this allowance also the kind of income that a bailiff can take away, or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U46	Thank you. Firstly, the feedback on these requests has been rather that many people have the impression and concern of the press that it is very confusing and bureaucratic. But in reality, it's gone a lot easier. There has been feedback from people, especially older people, who only have to add their own bills and the indication that their only income is a pension, and they already receive this support. So in any case, I encourage all people to communicate with my local government. There are people out there who can help. We have allocated money to help these people individually and so that no one should be left without help, who really needs this help. Now, the other half of your question: bailiffs. Indeed, when these support mechanisms came into force, it became as if bailiffs had to take it into account and take it away. As a result, the Ministry of Justice quickly developed a draft and an amendment to fill this gap so that, if there is support, it would go to pay for electricity or heating bills and would not be taken away by bailiffs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U47	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U48	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! I'm coming to another target group. A month ago, when we started this year's rhythm, you were in front of us, and we were talking about energy appreciation and possible compensatory measures. I asked you about granting grants to our nursing homes, and you said it would take a week or two for this, and then the Minister for Social Protection will definitely come up with it. It's been almost a month now, and no help has come directly. Yes, those in nursing homes also need help, and many nursing homes who are in need have personally approached me. What do you promise them or what should they do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U49	Thank you. The targeted measures will, of course, also help nursing homes, as far as legal persons are concerned, online fees. The Minister of Social Security has actually considered various options for helping nursing homes. I don't have that analysis on me right now, but I know they're in close contact.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U50	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! We have such a unique situation in Estonia that nearly 70% of residents live in housing associations. I do not know exactly how many cooperatives there are where the bills are presented purely through cooperatives, but there are indeed and there are others. There has also been a signal in the media that there is still a problem that cooperatives that bill through the cooperative do not receive compensation or are highly problematic. Is there any solution to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U52	Thank you. Yes, we dealt with the concerns of housing associations because it really turns out that it is also such a gap that the consumer is like a housing association, but there are apartments behind it, people, or end users, who are in these apartments. That is why last month we decided that at least in February this ceiling would not be applied to housing associations, i.e. the bill that will be submitted to the building management company will be removed and the building management company will be able to share it between these apartments so that automatic relief can still reach all apartments. It was to be done within a month, at least in Taavi Aas as Minister, that he promised to deal with it so that these invoices and its reporting could be more accurate, precisely in order to make it easier to relate to the particular consumer who is behind it. It should at least be operational. But in the short term, lowering the limit is what should help housing companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U53	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Is the Government of the Republic also discussing possible cost compensation for families or people who, for example, heat firewood or pellets or briquettes? At the moment, it is true that we are basically supporting and that is reasonable for those who, for example, use different heat pumps to heat their own homes. But, in fact, the prices of all other energy carriers have increased a lot lately, too, the firewood, pellets, briquettes, and quite a lot of complaining style à la me, silly, didn't go on electric heating in my time, and now I'm suffering in that sense. Is there any ideas, or has the Minister for Economic Affairs proposed any solutions for more equal treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U55	Thank you. There is no proposal at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U56	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U57	Thank you. Oh, how I would like to congratulate our government that the world's most powerful and powerful, because some time ago you said here that the government's measures have worked and energy prices have gone down. Unfortunately, our powerful government barely commands the climate that January has gotten warmer. But I would like to ask specifically about energy prices. Indeed, now the bills are a little smaller because of warmer weather, but the energy price has not gone down one bit. And it is precisely energy prices that the government has not dealt with. You deal with the consequences, but not the reasons. This has been discussed for several months, and various measures have been proposed to bring energy prices down. Why don't you just let our people impoverish and their savings, wages, pensions, everything just disappear into the wind?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U58	Thank you. I very much agree with you that a powerful government really does not command the climate or prices, and that is perhaps what you are saying, on the one hand, that we are the ones who are raising these prices. No, I won't. In this sense, I believe we are in complete agreement here. Nor have I said that the fall in prices is somehow dependent on government action, but indeed, in December, the weather and prices were much colder because of it. And really, up to 30% have come down. This, for its part, will certainly help people to cope with these prices. There are no short-term solutions in energy so that we automatically develop new production capacities that would give electricity to the market at a cheaper price. There's two sides. We need to deal with the short term in order to help people at those moments when it has really been difficult. I would like to hope that these measures have benefited people in order to cope. But it's really short-lived, we don't keep it long-term. The second, long perspective is still the solutions in energy, which I spoke about here before the Riigikogu for a long time, which must be done. But, unfortunately, it will not come in two months, not three months, but these steps will have to be taken and they will have simply not been taken in the past. That's why we're in this situation. But these are the issues we are dealing with, be it the creation of new capacities for this, the further development of interconnections, all such measures for people to help themselves through small production solutions, or consumers in general. These are longer-term solutions that do not produce an effect overnight, but which we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U59	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! How do you feel about yourself? When you planned the energy compensation, if I remember correctly, it was said that 400000 people, or more, could receive this support. If you look at the news from Friday, there are fewer than 40,000 who have received a positive response. The other side is that you are saying that prices have fallen. I don't know, you're just talking about electricity. After all, gas prices have increased every month. I have a proposition for you. You have taken a measure to compensate for the cost of electricity and gas. But for some people, it can happen that electricity and gas are equal, just as much spent as this measure is. Some others have either electric heating or gas heating. In fact, half of the support is not available, because if electricity is heated, the cost of electricity is definitely more than it is compensated for. With the cost of gas, it would be compensated. Have you discussed this in order to be treated equally?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U61	Thank you. It is always with grants that those who receive say that few, and those who do not, say that others get unfairly. But yes, indeed, I was talking about electricity. And it is also true that, when we did this measure, it concerns a targeted measure, we thought that it should be calculated to benefit 360000 households, i.e. 800000 people, if we take it from households. Indeed, so much has not been requested today. There's two sides. One is that we also took measures that automatically took off the accounts, which led to these bills being reduced. And the other half is that some people just didn't go to apply. The fact that less subsidies are needed cannot be bad in itself. But yes, we have tried to treat different energy sources equally. The hardest thing has been the price of electricity, it affects everyone. But for all other energy sources, the question immediately arises: one can, the other cannot and how do we deal with this situation. Finally, we still need to think about the long term, how there would be no need for such support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U62	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U63	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I will come back to one point that you said earlier in your reply. You read the manifesto of the state of Siim Kallas and said that you will sign it and that your government will sign it at every point. There is talk of a country that does not go through the citizen's finances and does not follow his bank account, yet the energy benefits policy you have drawn up specifically forces people to submit a bank account when applying for it. It also talks about a country that either tolerates its own citizens or dislikes its own. But at the same time, we know that over the last six months hundreds of thousands of people have been discriminated against and excluded from their daily lives and public life when we talk about tolerance. So you're already wrong about two points here against this manifesto. And we know that your words and actions often conflict. I ask, why are you always misleading the public and lying? So is it here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U64	Thank you. I am still signing the citizens' state manifesto with two hands. I have been following these principles all along, and that is exactly what I am doing. There is absolutely no conflict with my actions, principles or positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U65	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U66	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! Indeed, this autumn the discussions on how to compensate for high energy prices took a very long time. Everyone felt that an agreement at government level came too late and that there was too little compensation. It is now clear that even with the agreed compensation mechanism, applicants are 10 times less than expected. We can argue whether it's good or bad or what it shows. But even though there's uncertainty about it, well, we know that next winter will come. It does not happen until the next winter that renewable energy capacity is exponentially coming to this region. What is the solution for November, December and the following months? Let's learn from this experience. This knowledge, whether people are advised to make fixed packages, to build their solar panels on the roof, or to set up windmills, what are the recommendations for people to meet the next winter?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U67	Thank you. I very much agree that we will certainly learn a great deal from this process. And I also agree that next winter we will be in the same place because the same risks are up. and I also very much agree that we will not be able to generate this much new production capacity in this time. In fact, these long plans will not materialise by next winter. Now, as far as I know, the Riigikogu is probably already in the process of amending the Electricity Market Act, which would give the possibility to enter into lower fixed-price contracts for people who are really afraid of these high prices. So it's a little bit like insurance: you pay more at this point, but you have a fortress and you don't have to worry, it's the same price for you all the time. The second thing we've been talking to the electricity sellers is that since the price is low in the summer months, it would be possible to pay one specific amount, even if you're on the stock market, but you're distributing the payment more evenly over a year to ease these major shocks. But yes, if we have to support people next year, then yes, take into account the lessons we have learned here. I am simply referring to Finland as an example. In Finland, 10% of consumers have stock market contracts. Most people have fixed the price precisely because people want certainty. But at the same time as I say it, [the] moment when fixed prices are very high, it is unwise to do so. This is not the suggestion I'm making now, but a year could be considered longer. I think what is positive about the energy crisis is that people have become more aware of how the electricity market works, what different contracts are, what different risks are also in relation to contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U68	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Kaja Kallas! If memory doesn't fool me, at an earlier electrical event, you've said that people who are in debt aren't going to turn off the power. Now, however, Eesti Energia has started sending people threatening letters, which explicitly state that if they do not liquidate their debts, their electricity will be cut off. What about this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U70	Thank you. Of course, I can't promise anything for the electricity sellers, but I told them I'd talked to the electricity sellers so they'd be reasonable and understanding about people. And that's what they promised that they'd give time, that they'd communicate with people, and that they'd offer them solutions. That's a promise I got from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U71	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U72	Thank you. Prime Minister! I'll ask you about next year. Well, it seems to me that the country should clearly present a plan so that this year's major shocks do not recur. In general, daily expenditure on housing costs should not require comprehensive social benefits on a yearly basis. One of these areas is definitely district heating, where we have seen that so far the Competition Authority has always said that gas is attracted, and then it is good and favorable. Now we know it's not like that. The price of gas-fired boilers alone is over EUR 200 per megawatt-hour, and this is certainly not normal. It would certainly be possible to say here that, in the district heating sector, we basically say that it is necessary to leave with natural gas [heating] as soon as possible, in order to ensure a cheaper price for consumers. The question is: what kind of district heating plan does the state have, because there is a great deal that can be achieved regulatoryly here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U73	Thank you. Yeah. Unfortunately, I don't have these materials with me right now, but if I remember right now, I'm not going to say a pretty big part of the numbers just in case, because I might be wrong, I've used and gone over to wood chips in quite a number of areas. Understanding that a reduction in the share of gas could be one of the options should be available. We know this famous Vändra case, where the district heating actually wanted to make wood chips at the boiler house, but the local government or community said no, we don't want it, and now Vändra has some higher prices for district heating. So in this sense, this is absolutely the right point to think about the possibilities of district heating, given these prices. Yeah, the Minister in charge of energy is in Taavi Aas, and we've talked to him about this plan, and he could come with that plan. And I also very much agree with you that this should be prepared now rather to be better prepared next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U74	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There is no doubt that one of the components of the increase in energy prices is the carbon trading system. As far as I know, the Republic of Estonia is still an independent state according to the Constitution. My question is: please state these specific reasons why, in your opinion, Estonia cannot exit the CO2 trading system.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U76	Thank you. We are also your government with this system if you have agreed in the government how it works. What I agree with, which I have also proposed at European level, is that this system should be reformed so that businesses and people can take account of this price formation. So it's more predictable. Not only do you change input prices, but the actual price of CO2 would be predictable and can be taken into account. After all, the point is that we need more renewable electricity generation, for example, so that these prices are ultimately cheaper and less painful for the economy or society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U77	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U78	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I spoke to one of the heads of the South Estonian Social Department this morning, who claimed that they had received 729 requests for energy [aid] and [of these] 690 have been processed. I asked if there were any problems dealing with them. He said it wasn't, everything works very calmly, and when there are people in trouble, some lonely people, social workers have helped. And they haven't put on any more people either. Rather, the problem is that some households need more help, and social services help them. But my question is this: have you been approached by local authorities that they cannot deal with these subsidies?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U79	Thank you. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U80	Prime Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Peter Ernitsa, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U81	Good manager! Prime Minister! We submitted an inquiry on 12 January. Do you remember the situation at the time, January 12th? By the way, on the same day, the President of the honourable Riigikogu said on television that there is an urgent need for additional measures that would not be difficult and would be appropriate to the dignity of the people. It was January 12th. On 13 January, Jüri Ratas, the President of the Riigikogu, again said that there is an increasing reduction in time by the hour13. 1 January, and the need for [measures] is universally and with zero bureaucracy. Remember, Jaak Aab was the one who, at least with this regulation, made such a superb and superb first aid? On 22 January, a major demonstration of electricity and energy prices took place in the Freedom Square. And remember, the press wrote, can the coalition agree? These were anxious days, and the honourable politicians behind my back will surely remember very well how tight they were, but an agreement was reached. In any case, Jaak Aab was no longer such a bureaucratic and in many ways humiliating, many people shaking their hands. Fire like a more normal solution, such a universal one. So thanks anyway. But what's the result now? The result is that yes, indeed the forecasts showed that 380000 families could [submit an application] and this shock was large enough, but the current situation is 53000 families. The difference is really big. What does that really mean? It's too early for analysis. Was it the government overestimating the situation? By the way, good Prime Minister, in the meantime there was such a sentence, I heard that today [electricity price] is only EUR 20 [megawatt-hour]. But I have here the 25 January Memorandum of the Government of the Republic, which states that the average exchange price for electricity from January to March has been calculated by the government at EUR 200 per megawatt-hour. January 25th, the memorandum. Why has it gone like this? Was it really [such] that the wolf seemed bigger or the bear on the wall, his shadow, or is there some other reason? Well, maybe. I have heard, not only heard, but many people have also said that since the sums that are compensated are very small, the average was perhaps 163 euros today, but for many it is much, much smaller, it is indeed not going to make an effort for some five or ten euros. Last week, in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, we discussed it with many ministers, and there were a few such numbers that the majority of this 70 or more million actually remain unused. As of last week, it was 30 million at best. And at this point, last week, the state had only compensated 5 million. The fact is, when you walk around and talk, you realize that the trouble is actually pretty big. But yes, really [wanna] ask why it's gone like this, why it's so overrated, and whether this pain is actually left to people for various reasons. Maybe it's like, remember how the stork was served to eat from a plate? There's food, but you can't get it or you can't be dignified, and there's no point in moving on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U82	A little extra time, maybe?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U83	Yeah, a few minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U84	A few minutes? Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U85	Three minutes, yes, thank you! Nice bell again. And what the Prime Minister said about 53000 families who are advised to delay the tax return, otherwise it would not be useful for their wallets. The Prime Minister quite arrogantly answered. I don't know, maybe he hasn't read the articles that have been published here in the last week, how the Ministry of Finance recommends waiting until April, otherwise it wouldn't be most useful. If you get less than 1000 a month and now you get over EUR 300, for example, then it is over the limit of possible aid and better [if so] not. In fact, we should talk about the next winter coming, and the next and so on. The first wind farm will come into the sea in a good case of 2028 and will soon be cut off from Russia in 2025. These American mountains continue. The price of CO2, which should have been something else, is already around 100 today. And it's not certain that next winter he hasn't reached 200 or 150 or 170, no one knows. Neither I nor the Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu nor the Prime Minister know. No one knows that, the uncertainty is great. And there's two things about this place. One is why, at this moment, the money that the government has allowed to allocate has not been used. Well, the people who are looking at it now can tell exactly why they haven't, most of them. And another thing [is] what to do in the long run, because the situation will remain the same or get worse in the next ten years at least. So it's all really for the government to do and think for as long as it is. But then the next one comes, and maybe there's better ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U86	Thank you very much. Now I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Koka.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U87	Good manager!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U88	A little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U89	Sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U90	Sure, yeah? Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U91	Prime Minister! We have heard from the Prime Minister here today everything that has been done well. And we can't say the government didn't do anything. Of course it is. But I've been scratching a few things. One is a fixed price. If the current government recommends fixing the price, I have to admit that I and my children have had a fixed price throughout the period when Eesti Energia's electricity has been available on the stock market. What's the result? Throughout the last ten years, buying at a fixed price, I have paid more than those who have bought on the stock market. And when the government took the measure, it set the electricity ceiling, exactly what from 1 January is the fixed electricity price if you have fixed each year. Perhaps those who have fixed all the last ten years will receive virtually no cents of electricity support. The other half is gas. It is now agreed to place a price cap on a certain amount of electricity and a certain amount of gas. After all, gas is renewable energy with the news of recent weeks, as the European Union has decided. But gas-fired homes or companies that have taken this route... In a private house, gas costs are in most cases higher than this ceiling gas compensation and the rest must be paid with full iron. I have to admit that the price of gas in December and January was something that the state said it would support. It was 65, the gas exchange price was 70 somewhere. Perhaps in heating homes with gas, this support was practically [small], for example, I had EUR 17. I stress once again: I have no problem, my house is built properly, heat-resistant, the cost is not high. But I look around at both young families and the elderly, they have a problem. This fixed side doesn't help like this. Our party suggested that VAT would simply have been set at 9% for this period, which would have affected everyone, just as, fortunately, what the government has supported, the proposal for network charges. We have also proposed that many apartment buildings and private houses still have oil boilers, and if the diesel currently labelled could be used there at its affordable price, it would be much cheaper to heat than gas. In my opinion, at the moment, people should be given the opportunity to decide for themselves how they can be [more cheaply]. I'm going to make you a good proposal, Prime Minister, which doesn't get much out of the state budget. We're talking about every homeowner wanting to do it on his own, and that's what I think we all want. Let it be agreed that in the next two years, when people put their roofs on, I don't know, there could be a limit of 10 kilowatts of solar panels, which do not require any major coordination, these processes could be VAT-free. Because, in fact, if I, as an entrepreneur, put solar panels on the roof of my company, I'm gonna get the VAT back. As a private person, if I do this, I can't get the VAT back. In fact, this would compensate 20% of private individuals for the possibility of producing renewable energy for their homes. And now it is up to the people themselves to decide whether they have financial capacity, whether they have resources, or maybe those companies that offer this service, maybe they can also make longer-term contracts with them. This, on the one hand, cannot actually create a very large hole in the budget, because if there is a bonus, people will start putting on solar panels. If there is no advantage, everything has been put on itself, because for 12 years you will receive state support, this period is already over for us. Let's talk about apartment buildings. The way things have happened in apartment buildings, it's like there's a big part of it being compensated. If the district heating's on the gas, there's no limit. Yes, I believe that the gas or heat cost of most apartments is no greater than the limit given by the government, but we also have bigger and more fancy apartments that are bigger than most people's private homes. There definitely this heat consumption for gas heating is higher, but if it's the side of district heating, it's fixed at almost 100%. Of course, it should also be recalled here that when the government in October suggested that people with low incomes, families, this support would come, it is unfortunate that only a little over 10% of this support has been used today, but there are minor mistakes and if such acclaims come in the ministry, it is sad. One is that bailiffs in debt could take their money away, and here we have been fighting this issue for the last two or three weeks, fixing, debating, fighting. It was then claimed that there were no such cases. We've already read this weekend that there are cases that people have seized the money before they have it. Now we are hearing similar concerns that it is not worth making a tax return before 30 April, because you will simply lose the allowance because the refundable money that might come from the tax return will count on your income and your family's income will increase so much that you will not receive that compensation. I think that our task, not only for the government, but also for the members of the Riigikogu, is to try to explain to our people what the possibilities and options are for them to receive their support. And certainly those who wish to receive a tax refund according to the declaration need it. There are hardly those people who don't need, perhaps some individual [say] that it doesn't matter whether you get it in February or in April or May. They want to help and support their family today. I believe that there will be this debate next week in the Chamber of Riigikogu, the subject of VAT will then be a good coalition partner to support it, because I know that the Centre Party will support it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U92	Thank you very much. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Heiki Hepner. I also ask you: five or eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U93	Let's make it eight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U94	Let's make it eight. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U95	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! Well, the situation with energy prices got complicated back in the old year. It's been two or three months since we realized that we need to help now. When we first met in this hall at the beginning of this year, in mid-January, the Prime Minister and I shared space here for a while and discussed the situation. Indeed, at the time, I asked about helping the residents of our nursing homes. The Prime Minister replied that it would take one or two weeks, and then people living in our general care homes would also receive help, just like all of our other homeowners. Well, it hasn't taken one or two weeks, it's been a month, but it hasn't been received. After all, today we also heard that indeed, the residents of nursing homes must accept the same amount of help as the boot factory is being given. I think that, in fact, our people, whether they live in their own homes or live in nursing homes because of circumstances, surely deserve more help. There is no doubt about that, at least in my opinion. But if we look at this so-called aid for businesses, it is so small that it is, unfortunately, helping very little in nursing homes with electric heating. And this has led to a situation where nursing homes cannot cope with today's cost of the place. We know that overall inflation has also started. We are not only talking about energy prices; other life has become more expensive; it must also be paid for by these people in one way or the other. In the meantime, when ladies and gentlemen were asking their questions, I asked directly whether the Minister for Social Protection had approached nursing homes and acted actively, as the Prime Minister said. Well, at least one large nursing home in Raplamaa, with 90 inhabitants, hasn't heard about the Minister for Social Protection. I don't know, maybe it's moved through some other network, and they've somehow been sidelined. Well, that's worth making clear. But what did he say? He said they have to double the cost. And it will not be able to be paid by these residents, neither by their relatives nor by the local government. These are the only options that can cover this cost. So what do we do with these people? Do we really treat them like a boot factory that we've been telling that if we don't make it, why don't you shut down the business? Or we still have to find a solution and we do not draw the difference here between people who can live in their own homes and those whom we support and those who, under circumstances, are living in a nursing home, who are actually the weakest, and we say to them: no, you deserve more? I think it's such a soul-sharp question. Indeed, I fully agree here with the statement by our Chairman of the Riigikogu that this is not a matter of days, it is a matter of hours when a solution has to be found. But we let it go peacefully for months. Prime Minister! It really needs to be dealt with in classes, not in days or weeks or months, because it is only a matter of time before these nursing homes are bankrupt. Eesti Energia simply turns off electricity. We must, in any case, take these people more dignified than just a boot factory, to whom we are giving some kind of net charge and saying that we can do it. They are our people, just as we are all here in the Republic of Estonia. There is no reason to treat them differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U96	Thank you very much. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Paul Puustusmaa. And when you get here, I'll ask you in advance, maybe a little extra time. You don't have to? Okay, five minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U97	Good people! Prime Minister! Energy bill reimbursement. Answers received, heard, questions also heard. And there's still nothing left to do but say sadly that in the regulation of this situation, the government has gone through a lot under the bar, running through it with a lump. Of course, it is a pleasure in itself that something is done. But do you and how much? You could say, as has already been said here many times, that everything has been done too late, too little and too incomprehensible. You see, the old Romans had such a good saying or sentiments: cito maturum, cito putridum. I'm not quite sure if I pronounce it right, I'm not a hard-on in Latin, but when translated into rural languages, it means that what's done quickly, it's spoiled. And there's been some sort of thing about regulating this problem. The way in which 60% of the Estonian population was first declared unpopular, well, that was unheard of, could be said to be foolish. Later, of course, there have been attempts to do something again, once again, for the fact that something is being caught, but what is most important and what is most important about this whole thing is that we get this line and the fish balance in place. Now, if we start compensating for some money for a few months, but the winters are still coming, it has been repeated, multiplied, that the winters are still coming, then we have not been able to regulate all the problems, the questions are still in the air. It shows that the shortage is a principle. We do not have to compensate as much as that, it is a secondary tool, a possible and necessary tool, but a secondary one. The primary thing is, in fact, to regulate things in such a way that this problem is resolved permanently also with regard to the future. And that is why I am sorry that we are still paying too little attention to those steps that could really help us. They have already been said many times: we are talking about a price cap, we are talking about a cap on CO2 quotas, we are talking about a suspension, we are talking about an exit. Unfortunately, we do not apply them, and we still offer people fish, but not bait. That's sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U98	Thank you very much. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kalle Grünthal. It's an extra time question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U99	I'll make up my mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U100	It's a chance you have. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U101	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Good people! Dear Kaja Kallas! Today we have presented an inquiry that has been answered in this remote control. The issue is energy bill reimbursement. This inquiry revealed that the state is trying to provide subsidies and find various measures and social assistance and so on and so forth. But all of this reminds me a little bit of a person who's diagnosed with cancer and who's trying to cut off a few transitions instead of operating that pathogen right away. I think that, as in the case of cancer in medicine, when it is possible to provide assistance to a person, it should do exactly the same in the current energy crisis. There is no point in dealing with the elimination of individual transfers, but there is a need to cut out this cancer if it succeeds. But I think it's gonna work. In today's inquiry, I asked only one question to the respondent: please state the reason why we cannot exit the CO2 trading system. Unfortunately, there was no normal response. The first charge was that the [decision] of this exchange was adopted by the government in which the EKRE was present. But then what? Then that thing justified itself. And those who used exchange-traded electricity lived well because energy costs were lower. Or to give a figurative example: If a person is standing on his terrace somewhere under the roof and the sun is shining, that does not mean that when the rain comes and the water starts to flow off the roof, that person must stand there under the eavesdrop and let himself get all wet. A normal person steps aside and goes looking for a dry place somewhere in the room. It's exactly the same with the power exchange: at one point he was good for us? That's it. If it gets bad, you just have to leave the stock market. It's as simple as that. But it takes a government decision because the price of our own electricity produced in Narva is ridiculous. The cost is EUR 30 per megawatt-hour. Let's also put different costs on that end in the form of a green turn and stuff. Well, hardly he's more than 50 to 60 going. But it's a number our population can handle. All we need here is the will of the government. And EKRE would be willing to do that, suggest such a solution, if he had the chance to be in government. Another important point is the question of CO2, which I asked Mr Kallas. I wanted to find out if we could leave the CO2 trading system. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U102	Yeah, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U103	And there was no answer. But I have also addressed this issue in the Committee on European Union Affairs, and quite a number of times it has been said that there is no exit. Yes, you can. You can do anything if you want and you want to do it. Similarly, it is possible to exit the CO2 trading system, which would in turn bring the price of electricity down and be acceptable to the population. I expect there will be some kind of infringement procedure immediately. So what? Let him follow! What's gonna change? Nothing. I would remind you that Estonia is, at least according to the papers, an independent state according to the Constitution, who has the right to decide independently on matters in his own country and in his own life. It does not matter that there are any directives in force. If these directives are against the interests of the Estonian people, then steps must be taken to make life easier for our residents, not to go along with some global madness called "great reset" or "new reset." We don't need it! We want our normal life back, and that is why we need to take these measures in terms of energy prices and energy consumption and energy policy at all, which are in the interests of our nation state. The nation state of Estonia is what must last and no European Union directives can be taken over here. Anyone who wants and wants to maintain such a normal society should make an effort to ensure that Estonia remains independent to the end. However, there is probably no other way out of this, except that the current government must resign or leave at the request of the highest power, the people, otherwise there will be nothing good for us in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U104	Thank you very much. Good colleagues, no more calls. I'm gonna check it out, aren't I? No, it's not. Prime Minister, don't you? I'm closing the negotiations, there's been an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U105	Let's move on to question number two. This is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Kalle Grünthali, Ruuben Kaalepi, Merry Aarti, Alar Lanemani, Riho Breiveli, Kert Kingo, Siim Pohlaku, Rene Koka, Helle-Moonika Helme, Mart Helme, Leo Kunnase, Peeter Ernitsa, Jaak Valge, Urmas Reitelmanni, Uno Kaskpeiti, Paul Puustusmaa, Anti Polandmetsa and Henn Põlluaasa on 18 January 2022 regarding the loss of personnel in the field of defence. Wearing 109. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the question. Please ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, member of the Riigikogu Alar Laneman, to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U106	Honourable Chairman! Very dear Prime Minister! In the 11 months of last year, 412 active troops were released from military service, including 101 officers, 232 junior officers and 79 soldiers. 184 civilians working in the field of national defence also resigned. Thus, in the 11 months of last year, the total loss of personnel amounted to nearly 600 people, namely 596. The loss of personnel to this extent has been unprecedented in the history of Estonian national defence. 412 retired active troops account for as much as 11.6% of the total. This total number is taken from the National Defence Development Plan, which is 3560. Although new active troops are also taken into active service, they are inevitably young people, with no experience of service, and with no experience of war, who are unable to replace the deceased as soon as possible. 57 active troops were laid off as well as 17 civilians, making a total of 74 people. The fixed-term active service contract was not extended to 69 active troops and one civilian. The non-renewal of a fixed-term active service contract is essentially a lay-off because the further implementation of a qualified person is abandoned. The redundancies and the non-renewal of the active service contract are undoubtedly the result of the proportional budget cuts made by all ministries in the spring of the Government of the Republic. Such a measure has not been implemented during any previous crisis and the armed forces have not been fired in this way. In your Question Time on 15 September, you assured the Riigikogu in front of the large hall that there are healthy young men in the Defence Forces, whose dismissal you do not regard as justified in any way. Later, after this had taken place, you justified what happened, claiming that the dismissal of unvaccinated defence forces was based on a risk assessment by the Defence Forces. The following facts were known at the time of this analysis. The Defence Forces are not in any of the risk groups of the Coronavirus. There was only one person in the hospital, and that was relatively mild. Vaccination has in no way affected the outcome of the Second Karabakh War or the final phase of the Afghan War. Furthermore, vaccination is not essential for the participation of a military officer in educational gatherings or in the mobilisation of a military officer in the event of war. The risk analysis of the Defence Forces clearly did not take these factors into account. The Defence Forces have always been guided by the principle that no one is left behind and every thorn counts. Last year, the Government of the Republic made several decisions which led to the revision of these very important principles. In war, a moral factor always outweighs materiality. In the current security situation, which is the worst since the Russian [arms] left Estonia in 1994, we should not make such decisions. As a result, we ask you to answer a number of questions in accordance with § 139 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. There are 14 of them. We are counting on your thorough answers, perhaps on some explanations. To comment, I would say so much that the political struggle involves referring to opponents and also to previous governments, and that is okay, as long as we are ready to straighten out the mistakes that have been made. A good sign, by the way, is the Minister of the Interior, who has ordered a re-evaluation of the threat analysis carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U107	Thank you. I now ask the Prime Minister of the Riigikogu's speech chair Kaja Kallas to answer the question, which bears number 109.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U108	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the question. The first question: "How many officers, officers and soldiers were in the Defence Forces and the Defence League's contractual active service on 31 December 2021? " The answer. A total of 3459 active troops were in service at the end of 2021. The second question: Has the target of 3560 active troops as defined in the National Defence Development Plan 2017 to 2026 been reached? What's the deficit? " The answer. Yes, the National Defence Development Plan provided for the achievement of the target of 3560 active troops by 2021. At the end of the year there were 101 fewer active troops. If you look in the numbers in more detail, the reasons for leaving will be clear. First, important transformations took place in the Defence Forces in 2021, for example for 28 active troops, were transformed into civil servants' seats, especially in the ICT field. Secondly, in 2021, 354 active troops wanted to withdraw from the service for other reasons, such as health, family or other personal reasons, retirement. The third question: "What effect do you think the withdrawal or dismissal of 410 officers, officers and soldiers in active contractual service during the eleven months of 2021 will have on the fighting capabilities of the Defence Forces? "In 2021, a total of 459 active troops were released in the Defence Forces, of which 56 due to redundancies and 49 due to non-compliance with the operational service requirements. For other reasons, 354 active troops were released. The number of exits from active employment was similar to that of staff mobility in previous years. The structural changes in the operational posts were, inter alia, due to the manning of new capacity developments. The new National Defence Development Plan 2022 was designed to reach the number of active troops at the end of the period 3846. Given the fact that in 2021 the largest course in history, 92 cadets, began in the Defence Forces Academy, this gives assurance that there will be a sufficient number of willing contributors in military defence. Fourthly, "Did the reduction-target proportional to other ministries become an adequate decision in the security situation in the Ministry of Defence? "We have agreed on a coalition agreement and, accordingly, we will ensure that the state's defence budget is at least 2% of GDP plus allied expenditure and a defence investment programme. The national defence budget increased by a record 103 million euros in 2022 compared to 2021, representing 2.31% of GDP. In 2022, the state budget has a defence budget of 749.6 million, representing 2.31% of the projected GDP. It already includes costs for allies. If gross domestic product grows, as it has now grown, then the nominal amount of money for national defence will certainly increase. In addition, on 20 January 2022, the government decided to increase the amount allocated to Estonia's defence expenditure by 380 million euros over the next four years in order to implement the National Defence Development Plan in an accelerated manner. It finances various broad-based defence sectors and the largest amount, 340 million, becomes the domain of the Ministry of Defence. Five: "What considerations did this decision take? " What considerations have we raised the defence budget? I think it is very clear: looking at the security situation around us. Sixth: "What led to the subsequent amendment of this decision and the abandonment of the cut-off target? " All budgetary decisions are taken by the government as far as possible and in the light of the security situation. That's the kind of decision we've made. Seventh: "What damage did you think this decision had been made? " Public finance, which works on a sound and real basis, is an essential part of national security. The country's responsibilities and income must be balanced and a broad-based approach is also needed to achieve this. Eighth: "Did the Commander of the Defence Forces come out of the control of the defence forces that have not been vaccinated against the Coronavirus by triggering those who are under civilian control by you, acting on your will, which you clearly expressed before the Grand Hall of the Riigikogu, against? " The Commander of the Defence Forces is responsible for the military protection, preparedness and operation of the State on a daily basis. I have complete confidence in the Commander of the Defence Forces. I think, as a professional officer, the Commander of the Defence Forces made the necessary decisions in a rapidly changing crisis, which have been made within the limits of his powers. The Commander of the Defence Forces was based on a risk assessment which said that it was necessary to ensure the full readiness and operational capacity of the Defence Forces. These decisions have allowed for the necessary training and cooperation with allies to continue. Ninthly, "Why did you change your position on the release of unvaccinated members of the armed forces? " I haven't changed my point of view. As I said, the Defence Forces have a duty to assess these risks, regardless of the area of work. This risk assessment was carried out by the Commander of the Defence Forces in [competent], he carried out this risk assessment and found it proportionate and necessary in a [specific] situation [decision]. As COVID-19 disease continues to spread, the defence forces must take measures to reduce the risk of infection in their working environment. However, as with all other employers, this is also a direct decision of the employer in the case of the Defence Forces on the basis of a risk analysis. Tenth: "Do you think that active service contracts for active troops can be amended retroactively? " If this issue is now linked to the vaccination requirement, you probably want to link it to it, then the purpose of the vaccination requirement imposed by the Defence Forces is to maintain the service and responsiveness of the members of the Defence Forces and thus to ensure the defence capability of the State. On 25 November, the administration of the Supreme Court [college] found in its decision that the objectives of the vaccination requirement of the Defence Forces are extremely important and that this requirement does not detract from human dignity. The college had no serious doubts as to the justification of this requirement. By the eleventh, how do you feel about releasing unvaccinated war veterans and even war invalids from the service of the armed forces? " The morals of defence personnel are regularly assessed and in 2021 a record number of cadets began training officers at the Defence Forces Academy. This confirms that the trust in the Defence Forces as an employer is still very high. By the twelfth: "Do you think that the release of unvaccinated military personnel is proportionate to other government measures to control the coronavirus? " Organisations operate differently, and everyone was able to assess their risks in accordance with the laws and procedures, take risk analysis and take decisions accordingly. The military risk assessment was based on the vital role of the Defence Forces in ensuring the defence capability of the state, which certainly cannot be taken lightly. Thirteen: "Do your decisions regarding the human resources policy of the Defence Forces of your government diminish your defence capabilities and will, or is it because of the opposition's criticism, for example, of this particular question? " The government does not interfere with the organisation of the personnel policy of the Defence Forces. The government will provide the resources necessary for this purpose and according to the new National Defence Development Plan, the average wage of the active troops will continue to be kept 30% above the average wage in Estonia, which will also support the achievement of the stated growth goals. Fourteenth: "Are you admitting mistakes? Is and how do you intend to improve them? " I don't know what kind of mistakes you're referring to, which I'm supposed to admit. I still intend to follow science-based recommendations in my decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U109	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! You clearly explained the reason why the defence costs eventually increased and reached 2.31% and 249.6 million levels. But my question was about what led to this intermediate proportional spring cut, which led to all these redundancies. I mean, that was basically another thing I asked you about. My question was on this, and I would ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U111	Thank you. The state budget was approved and submitted to the Riigikogu in September and this is the budget on which decisions are based. In the spring, the state's budgetary strategy was discussed, which is why the state budget is still being based. So the state budget is what this final document is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U112	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U113	Thank you, good Chairman! Prime Minister! If a number of Estonian Defence Forces decide to remain true to their convictions and even accept the loss of their jobs and all that comes with them, instead of allowing themselves to be injected with suspicious drugs that have not passed safety checks, do you not think that such determination is worthy of recognition and that such determined defence forces should serve as an example to all Estonian soldiers? Or, on the contrary, do you think these are irresponsible people whose dismissal was the right decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U114	Thank you. As I say, every employer can make these decisions on the basis of risk assessments. And [should] be taken into account that we still have mostly unvaccinated people in hospitals and mostly unvaccinated people die. It was precisely for the Defence Forces to function smoothly that the Commander of the Defence Forces was the main objective. I am still convinced that vaccination will help against serious illness.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U115	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! It is clear that a person, this is the greatest treasure of all that a country has. And especially in the Defence Forces, a man's place is in a very high position. And if we look now, let's say, the defense forces as a whole, the training of an officer, an officer, how to say, the training is so expensive that it is very [wrong] to make an easy decision about these people. And not only about an officer, but also about an officer. Can you tell me or tell me how much it costs to the state to train an officer and how much it costs to train an officer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U117	Thank you. No, I don't really know how to answer a number like that right now. I don't have these materials with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U118	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U119	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! The number of cadets entering school is, of course, delightfully high, 90, but it is clear that they will not all stop. And the harsh fact is that it is not much to be said that there are, in fact, a number of vacant posts in the Defence Forces. There are HQs where it is not possible to appoint suitable defence forces, military positions are not filled because there are no relevant people, with appropriate training and a corresponding degree of honor. Even the Commander of the Defence Forces has not, regrettably, served a day at NATO. It is rather strange that he has become the head of the Estonian Defence Forces. These people, when they come back to Mr Breivel's question, have been trained for years for a very large amount of money and have very great experience, but now they are forced to leave the service. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Do we see any way to take these people back into service and re-establish their positions if we wish?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U120	Thank you. In all areas, we actually have a shortage of people. We're a small country and we need good people everywhere. But I believe that every employer makes decisions at their own discretion and according to their own needs. Given this security situation, I think that any person who can and wishes to contribute to the security of Estonia should have this opportunity, whether in the Defence Forces or through the Defence League or other organisations. What is happening around Ukraine must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U121	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U122	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I'm still worried about those officers and officers fired from the Defence Forces. The situation now, according to the media, is that there is a major epidemic in the Defence Forces, over 700 infected, if I am not mistaken. Maybe it doesn't matter. No difference, no [effect] has led to vaccination. Similarly vaccinated are infected massively, the numbers are virtually equal. Now the question is [that] is that, according to my records, when the police decided that the COVID certificate was over, there is no reason to fire it. And if the third dose is missed, no one will be fired, it's everyone's free will. Now, in the light of the omicron[strain] and in the light of these data, can we begin to take back the defence forces and stop firing their personnel?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U123	Thank you. After all, the turnover of the frame in the Defence Forces has not been significantly higher than in other years. But as far as vaccinated and unvaccinated people are concerned, there is still a difference between serious illness and hospitalization. There's a very clear difference. We have 62% of people vaccinated in the general population, but in hospitals, 84.9% of the dead are in the last wave, if I remember correctly, unvaccinated people. This does not indicate the proportion of people in society who have been vaccinated and how many have not been vaccinated. Yes, vaccination against disease or infection has not provided adequate protection, but it has not provided adequate protection against serious illness. Now this question, which your colleague also asked: every employer can decide for himself [what to do] if some requirements have fallen off. The risk analysis may be resolved in a different way. I believe that every worthy person is valued, and especially if there is a shortage of employees, these people will be hired.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U124	Reuben Kaalep, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U125	Thank you, good Chairman! The situation has now arisen that it is 5 p.m. and by now the materials of all the drafts that are currently pending should be on the shelf behind us this week. But we have the last item on the agenda on Wednesday, draft 507, the materials of which, unfortunately, have not come into this shelf by now. Should it be concluded that this bill will fall out of this week's proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U126	Thank you. No, let's not conclude that. As far as I know, these materials have come online, and according to my information, at this moment, there's a breeding operation being carried out to bring them back here in paper drawers. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U127	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I'm actually gonna say right now that a little bit of my ear was touched by the fact that you twice answered my colleagues' question about these fired or fired military personnel in such a way that every employer can choose for himself. And then you said that we have other employers who would really like to work. This means, in the sense, that [how] should be said about the military that it is an employment relationship. It's more like a service relationship. But okay, that's that. But in this regard, I wanted to say that I too am being bullied by the same idea that, in a situation where tensions are increasing in Ukraine, we are drawing up courage and reducing our troops, reducing spirituality and so on with their restrictive arrangements. It's a bad story all the way. And you said that you can't really say that we had [greater] frame turnover in earlier years. I mean, it's actually a third bigger this year than it was before. So actually, it's remarkably big. And so the question is: could you not lead the government in such a way as to improve it [the situation] and take back the troops who have been fired?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U128	Thank you. First of all, I said that good people are needed everywhere, whether it be a service or an employment relationship. All employers are looking for good people. It was my idea, not that [military] go to work somewhere else. I didn't say that. Now, the second thing I want to say is that there have been no serious illness or hospitalisations in the Defence Forces, even if there has been an infection. And I also don't want to agree that we're reducing our troops. We're certainly not gonna do that. As I said, we have even increased our defence readiness through investments, through decisions, by speeding up the national defence development plan [to be implemented] and by allocating additional money there, and not only to defence forces, but actually to wide-spread national defence. Now, when you look at the numbers on this turnover, those people who went to the reserve, for example in 2019, were 299, 288 in 2020. Human numbers, or this turnover, are actually quite similar in different years. The years, of course, are not brothers. Once again, every thorn counts in the defense of our country. I absolutely agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U129	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Unfortunately, your answers to questions 3 and 11 weren't quite, I'd say, good. Maybe later you'll talk to those helpers who helped put them together. Your answer is that if veterans and invalids are fired from the Defence Forces, it doesn't have any effect on morals, that's OK. That is certainly not the case in the normal armed forces. And the third question was the impact on the fighting power of the Defence Forces. There are so many people leaving, but there's no effect on combat ability. That means these people were pointless in their place. How would you comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U131	Thank you. No, I don't agree with that in any way. I've said there's been a flow in the Defence Forces, people go to reserve, but there are different reasons. As far as morals are concerned, I am not the right person to judge the morals of the armed forces. I haven't been in the Defence Forces, and in any case, my view would be from the outside. This is a question of assessment, and I have no point of reference to say that it has changed one way or the other, it has gotten better or worse. I just don't have the authority to make such an assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U132	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U133	Thank you. Look, I'm quite competent to judge it. I'm an active defence ally myself. It is quite clear that, ever since the symbols, orchestras, chaplains, and all other things of the Defence Forces began to be dealt with until it was concentrated due to the vaccination status, moral and defence will have fallen quite clearly. And it seems to me that you're completely out of line. In the case of the armed forces, you say that each employer makes his own decisions, as if Herem were the head of a factory or [other] company. But it's not. This is not about the company or the employer, it is about defence, our security, our ability to resist aggression. That's what makes this thing particularly delicate. Every human, every thorn, as you said, counts. And when these thorns are cut off, it's actually completely direct from damaging our defenses. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U134	Thank you. According to the Commander of the Defence Forces, this decision was necessary to ensure freedom of action. We know that vaccinated people should not be isolated. I don't have these numbers right now, but the comparison with last year, how many people were supposed to be in isolation at the same time, was drastic. I once answered that question in Question Time. All these symbols, I guess you've turned up a lot of foam to create this kind of glitch. Well, the same orchestra is still operating under the name of the military orchestra. It's all been an unnecessary aziotage, I'd say. I do also call on you, in the current security situation, to convey, in fact, clear messages that all people are necessary to protect our country, protect our country and protect our people. Yes, we do not currently have a military threat beyond our borders, but looking at this security situation, which is unfolding around Ukraine, which is quite close, [must be said], it will certainly have an impact. Therefore, in my opinion, these messages are important in my circles, that every thorn still counts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U135	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In essence, last year almost 600 people were fired or left the defence service, and this was still based on the vaccination obligation initially imposed by Herem and later, when people refused, on the basis of a risk analysis. But this risk analysis is basically completely screwed up, because the current WHO predictions say that in the coming months, despite all efforts, the corona virus will still be infected by half of the European population, and we will see these events here too: vaccinated people will get sick exactly the same way. My question: who is responsible for this incorrect risk analysis, on the basis of which people were released from work in the interests of security, is it Herem or the source of the risk analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U137	Thank you. First of all, don't lie! A total of 459 active troops were released from the Defence Forces in 2021, 56 due to redundancy and 49 due to lack of the COVID certificate. For other reasons, 354 active troops left. So 600 isn't true, and it's not true that these are all the people who were released because of the lack of COVID's evidence. If we actually look at people leaving the Defence Forces in different years, these numbers have been more than 200 in the past who have been included in the reserve, whose service relationship has been terminated. So actually, these numbers are quite comparable to those in previous years.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U138	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U139	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! I'm not military, but I trust General Laneman. Good Prime Minister, are there 500 or 400 or 600 now if these predominantly men would have lined up here right now, what would you say to them? What kind of speech would you give them? Improvise, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U140	Again: Every year, people leave the Defence Forces, and the flow of the frame has been of quite the same magnitude. So it's actually not right to put this number together like this. And I can also say, exactly as you say: I am not military, but I trust the Commander of the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U141	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! You trust everyone at all, you're a very gullible person. I don't trust you. I do not trust Martin Herem, who has stubbornly refused to close Estonia's defence gaps, who speaks in a security situation, where you claim that war can occur every minute, every day, that we are guided by some ten- and 20-year development plans that eliminate the chaplain service needed to sustain people's souls and so on and so forth and so forth. I don't trust this guy. And my question is: should we perhaps start breaking hairs and statistics, what age, what degree have people left in previous years, and what age and rank have we now, over the past year, left? To claim to have a mildly nursed corona is not right either, because it is a contingent of young people who are now suffering from massive illness.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U143	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U144	Don't you think we're out of order in the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U145	Thank you. Look, you guys don't trust anybody again. You don't trust the Commander of the Defence Forces...... you don't trust the police, you don't trust the doctors... [[Mart Helme will speak in between.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U146	Mr. Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U147	... don't trust officials, don't trust all kinds of... Do you trust the Estonian state? For example, I really trust the Commander of the Defence Forces, I trust the Estonian police, I trust doctors. And in any case, in Estonia, I think everything can be done very nicely, and I think that Estonia is much better... [[Mart Helme will continue to talk about it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U148	Mr. Helme! Seriously, it's time to ask and it's time to answer. (Mart Helme: "I don't trust...")
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U149	Are you leaving the hall again dramatically? Okay. (Mart Helme says of the hall: "You never want to...)
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U150	Mr. Helme! It is time for the question and it is time for the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U151	Another dramatic departure from the hall. But I really trust the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U152	Prime Minister, there are no more questions for members of the Riigikogu. I'm opening negotiations. First Alar Laneman, if there is [wish to speak] on behalf of the heirs. Who is speaking on behalf of the heirs? Mr. Kunnas? Okay, then Mr. Kunnas. First Alar Laneman went to the board on behalf of the heirs, then I had to give Alar the floor first, but if there is a desire to perform now on behalf of the heirs, then, Leo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I'd like three minutes of extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U154	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U155	Yeah, 412 was that number at the end of November, and then it went up to 459. It's about the actives. In addition, 184 civilians were added, leading to this figure of 600. These figures are perfectly correct, they come from the defence forces themselves, where we asked them. I remember when we were still in the ministry with Alar, we were pretty worried when 70 to 100 people a year switched. Every time people leave the service, they have a certain rank, they have a certain experience, some have gone to wars. And when people come in place, it's very good that 90 people come to military school, but they don't all graduate from military school, and until [others] become lieutenants, captains and colonels, it takes quite a lot of time. This exchange, it's clear, isn't equal. And 450 isn't equal to 250 or 300. Still, it can be seen that by a few hundred people it is unusually large [departure]. And this unusualness is also very easy to explain. Here are the persons who were laid off in the spring-summer, there were 69 active troops, and then those who did not extend the active service contract for various reasons, which was also a de facto lay-off. There were 144 of them, or quite a number, with civilians. I'm gonna stop at these cuts now. This spring, in fact, the proportional cut proposed could have been absent. Other areas of government did not immediately take immediate action. The only thing really was the Department of Defense who started making rapid layoffs. And that's where all the later action and aziotage came from around the orchestra, the chaplains, and everything else. It could have been all without it. Today, however, we should focus on more important things. But the whole thing really came out of nowhere. We also commended the government for the fact that this error was subsequently corrected and the cost of defence this year is 2.31% of [GDP] and 749.6 million, which is perfectly reasonable. But just this intermediate thing could have been gone, it was a bit of an empty breeze in between. However, as regards vaccination and its impact on morals and all of this, I regret that all the arguments that we have raised here have not had an impact on you, either on the Minister of Defence or on the Head of the [Defence Forces]. And I will repeat this once again here, basically, so that we are clear to everyone, and I will evaluate it once again. In other words, individuals who had not been vaccinated were dismissed from the contract service of 46 officers, 31 officers, and 4 frame soldiers. 17 civilians were fired. So there were 63 people who got fired. Among them were 12 veterans and one of the war - invalids. If we put these two numbers together, or 144 and 63, we're going to get that 200 difference that's been compared to the previous years. Here's the difference. Of course, my assessment as a military officer is that if we let go of the veterans and also the invalids, I hope there's just been some kind of mistake, we shouldn't have done that and it's bad for morals. It also has a bad effect on morals when we tell people that we do not keep you well in active service, we do not need you, but if there is a war, there will be a gathering of students, then we will invite you. We invite you to Siili, we invite you to an additional training gathering, we invite you to war, you're still at our side. This has actually been a mistake in this area of government. And actually, we have also made a positive example here that Minister Kristian Jaani has corrected the error. They've stopped it, they won't let the rescuers go again. They're all shut down. They're not gonna let the cops go. This [wrong] has already been done, this damage has already been done, but it can still be corrected. And, of course, I don't expect any excuses from the Commander of the Defence Forces. It's just a mistake that needs to be corrected because these people are needed. But there are older men in the same rank as me, men in the war, and this has not been a good idea and a good plan. And as far as this risk assessment is concerned, actually, if we compare it, it should be in some holistic proportion to what's going on in the country. For example, Tanel Kiik, as a minister, could not give such an assessment, for example, that I am releasing all those nursing home workers who have not been vaccinated. He could have done such a risk analysis. He just didn't do it for the reason who's gonna take care of it. But in fact, dozens of people died because the carers were unvaccinated. It all happened. No one died in the Defence Forces, one person was hospitalized by then, and his illness was quite mild. We are asking whether this analysis was adequate when it was put into the [general] context that is taking place elsewhere in the country. We can see that a clear mistake has been made here. And we criticized that mistake as soon as it was coming, not just now behind us. We didn't know which strains were coming, how the disease was developing, but now it's clear. As early as January, the WHO predicted that half of the European population would be infected in the coming months, even the defence forces were infected, vaccination had not been saved. The fact that we freed these people didn't in any way affect the state that is currently in the armed forces. This measure was simply not proportionate, it was not correct. Misleading is human. It happens. Just [Wish] the Commander of the Defence Forces and also the Secretary of Defense would admit these mistakes. They're all just fixable. That's the point. We live in the information room where we live right now. Perhaps these decisions seemed reasonable at the time, but we can see that the situation has changed a lot in six months. We have a completely different knowledge of this virus, a completely different situation. Now we have reached a situation where some Western European countries have basically lifted all restrictions because they realise that there is no way to prevent this Omicron strain virus, it has become endemic. It is the point of this inquiry that, well, a mistake occurred, it could have happened to any government, any Commander of the Defence Forces, but we will correct it. The Minister of the Interior has already done so, and the Minister of Defence could do well to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U156	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Some things I'd like to talk over or put into context. The questions and comments of this inquiry are not intended to be anything but a stronger state and a stronger defence capacity. And sometimes you have to submit your observations in the form of a questioning. It is always wise to rely on experienced people or peoples who have more wisdom accumulated over time because they have simply been leading civilization in this world for longer. A Chinese proverb is very fitting: "Only the eyes of strangers can see their shortcomings. " Today we are these strange nooses, and [we were] even when we made such an inquiry. Some details about recent history. Why, for example, is the subject of veterans very painful? When we started our missions, [the goal] was not, as mercenaries say, to see the world and do bad things there. The key to black humour. [The goal] was to give the Estonian state men and women who know what war is, that if, God forbid, it would threaten us, we would be better prepared. That's why losing veterans is very bad. When we were first wounded, it was a new situation for us, but it was quite clear to us that these people should, if possible, be provided with service, a line of service, which means that physical requirements are lighter. And there were several reasons. The first was to walk according to our own words that we would leave no one. The second [cause] was that the labour market would be very difficult for them to get their injuries [to start]. And thirdly, there is so much investment in them, and the experience they have gained in addition to this investment from war is so valuable that we must not allow them [people] to be lost. And now we read that veterans are given up easily, including one war invalid. That's the background. And a little bit more about recent history. On 10 September last year, the Head of the Defence Forces spoke at the ERR [news]. [He said that] "if there was no vaccine yet, the Defence Forces had 20 sick places in isolation for 100 to 200 people." And now the latest news, January 25th, ERR: "On Tuesday, the armed forces had over 400 korona positives and isolated nearly 700 people. " The vaccination had to work, didn't it?! There's a place here for at least a thorough analysis and explanation. As my good colleague Leo said, there is no need for excuses, there is no need for regret. It's just, if we're smarter from behind now, we should make up for those mistakes if we can. These things happen, people make mistakes. And another fact. There's a little juggled numbers around here that left so much and now there's 90 cadets. [In order to] reach a level where senior officers have left and higher officers are quite lightly going away, it takes 15 to 20 years for the cadet to do so. 15 to 20 years! It is not just an employer's subordinate or one unit of staff. It's a state resource. It is part of the country's military capabilities, which must guarantee its independence. It's got a whole other weight. Somewhere, this "employer" has gone on a journey. There's no work in the Defence Forces, there's service in the Defence Forces. And it's also a matter of attitude, not just a term. Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U158	Yes, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U159	It also determines attitudes. Those who are more experienced say that their day is from eight to five, but often, especially when you're involved in the staff, that's not possible. So service or work, whether you're in public service or you're working in one institution, there's a big difference in thinking. This moral component is [here] indeed, it is an assessment issue. In fact, I think those who have not served in the military will understand. But it also plays in family and friendship, for example. We all know how morality works. You fail, you break a severe fracture, or you break it. And one of the most common descriptions of the relationship between the moral and the material part is that morality is a triple importance, the material part of a single. It's three to one, always. If there's a will, you'll find the means, if you don't want to, then with the best resources in the world, you won't have a result. Unfortunately, we also have a recent example to take: the departure from Afghanistan and the collapse of the Afghan state, the takeover by the Taliban. It's a classic example. You may have everything, but the result is zero. That's why it might be a little emotional to draw attention to veterans and at all to the issue of people and staff in the Defence Forces. But EKRE is actually quite fair. Leo and I have also commented at various levels that we have the opposite example of the Defence Forces. Last Thursday we met with the Commander of the Defence Forces. I cannot describe [other] topics here, but there was a very positive picture and development on this particular subject, which we are talking about. Although some time ago we also had debates and debates on this issue, and perhaps we had misconceptions. The criticism should hopefully help to ensure that, in the interests of all of us, our common defence and the functioning of the state is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U160	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U161	Thank you. To tell you the truth, I had no intention of coming here to talk except Colonel Kunna and General Laneman. Their competence in military matters is absolutely indisputable and, in fact, it is also indisputable that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has the best competence in military matters compared to other political parties. And we were also the only party that put forward a completely comprehensive national defence programme separately in the elections. I wouldn't have had to come here if the Prime Minister hadn't said in the light of all this that we've been foaming up on defence issues. This is actually an extremely cynical, extremely false claim, because on the contrary, we have always tried to stand up for the development of our defence, for our security, for our ability to stand up for these extremely difficult security policy situations. But what have we seen? We have actually run into the wall with our very constructive, thorough and well-founded proposals, because the Commander of the Defence Forces has had no desire to listen to these things or to discuss them. The Commander of the Defence Forces does not listen to the consensual proposals of Parliament's National Defence Committee, just like the government. I am referring to the issue of medium-country air protection. The National Defence Committee has proposed to the government to obtain it as soon as possible; it should have been 10 to 15 years ago. But take your finger! When we proposed in the previous government that we include 300 million in the defence budget, it was equally rejected by the then Minister for Defence, but above all by today's Commander of the Defence Forces, who said that we did not need it, we have other priorities. But if you talk to any military expert at any level, the first thing you want to do is protect your territory, if you want to check what's going on here, you have to have a medium-range air defense, otherwise your airspace will be controlled by the enemy. And today we are in this situation. The Commander of the Defence Forces, as he has done today, has not acted as the Commander of the Defence Forces, as a military officer and an officer, but as a politician who has shattered, lied, accused, has pointed a finger at those who really want to develop this issue of national defence. He says it's as if he hasn't been spoken to about this air defense. That's a lie. He has spoken as if it was intended to be done at the expense of other abilities. That's a lie. And our Secretary of Defense and our Prime Minister both at the same time confirm from one mouth that they trust the Commander of the Defence Forces. The Secretary of Defense said so when we proposed that we bring out our units from Mali. He didn't agree at the time, but he claimed to trust the Commander of the Defence Forces. And it was also about obtaining this anti-aircraft, so he therefore did not trust the Riigikogu's National Defence Committee or Parliament. And that's exactly what we heard today from the Prime Minister who said he trusted the Commander of the Defence Forces. This means that we, ladies and gentlemen, are not to be trusted. At the same time, both claimed that they were not experts in defence matters. But we have experts in this Chamber, yes, and not only from our party, but also from the Reform Party, John Kert, who disappeared, certainly had that in mind. General Ants Laaneots agrees exactly the same, the missing Madis Milling agreed with us. But we're not trusted. Parliament will not be entrusted, regardless of its expertise [large].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U162	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U163	Yeah, more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U164	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U165	And now we get here that the Prime Minister compared and compared our defence forces to a simple company, a company where its manager, the employer, makes their decisions whether to reduce staff or not, for what reason and when to let them go. But this is essentially absolutely the wrong approach, because defence, defence, is not a company. You can't even even compare them. The objective of national defence, the objective of the Defence Forces, the objective of the Commander of the Defence Forces must be to do everything in his power and to demand additional resources to carry out the task in order to protect Estonia, our independence, our sovereignty and our territorial integrity. But unfortunately, we can't see that. It also explained why people were sent away from the armed forces to create some kind of capacity. I'm sorry, we know that none of the capabilities are as cheap as the savings from letting these people go. But there are no real plans to develop any capabilities, because if we look at the National Defence Development Plan, it's an empty barrel, an air-waving. Nothing is being developed. Just trying to get our heads in the sand again, as if there were no war threatening us today-to-morrow, as if we didn't have a pariah neighbour who has abandoned all international agreements and good practices. We are still being told about the National Defence Development Plan and its development. I'm sorry, it can't be done, or it can't be done! We must be guided by needs and real security threats, because otherwise the Russian army will simply march over here, and we will have to stand with the weapons against these heavy equipment. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U166	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U167	So I would really ask the government and also the Commander of the Defence Forces to look at reality and act accordingly and listen to the good advice given in good will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U168	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U169	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I wasn't planning to come here either, because I certainly wasn't as competent a person as I am in the reserves of my senior lieutenant in the Soviet army, Alar Laneman, who is currently in reserve, Lieutenant Colonel in the Reserve, or the Lieutenant Colonel of Border Guard in the Reserve. We have people who have been active allies of defence for several decades in the group, I cannot say how much of the fingers of two hands are scarce. We have them, and we have discussed very, very deep issues of defence policy and security policy, both among ourselves at group meetings and in other possible circles. And I dare say that we have some rather adequate idea of what Estonia needs and how this need has been met. Why did I come here? But because it is absolutely unacceptable to me that the Prime Minister does not understand what he is doing here in briefings and enquiries. He comes to answer questions. He answers questions and gives exhaustive information to the extent of the questions he has been asked. He doesn't come here to yell, "You yourself! But you did! But you!" What I think I do, I think, is purely my business. It's not the Prime Minister's business. If I don't trust the Commander of the Defence Forces, then I have reasons. If I don't trust the police chief, then I have reasons. It is no one's business to scream at me: "But you! " It is my right, my right as a vigilante. You answer the questions, not point the finger, don't blame and don't ask us questions. Please take note of this! Now, to come to the defence policy: it is depressing how the tracks that were laid down 20 years ago are being driven. Some development plans, yeah, we're planning on getting armored in ten years. Ten years ago, by the way, it was also planned to worry about armoured capabilities in ten years' time. Now it's been ten years since it's been gone! We've been delayed for the next ten years. We are going to worry again about some sort of years of beach defence capability. Those years went by, they didn't come out. It didn't work out. Let's postpone. I don't know how many years we're going to be worried about midland air control. Except all this time we've been driving down those tracks that were laid down 20 years ago, and snail-stepping, not like driving a powerful modern locomotive, but like some kind of train. Two guys just keep cranking around, driving around like a twit-bitch-bitch-bitch. Look, behind the next turn, there's a bright future, so we're going to drive the dresin again. Our potential opponent has made a qualitative leap. If you are looking at the same news clips that are currently being shown in connection with Ukraine, see which columns are moving there with different sizes of rocket weapons. These aren't individual machines with missile complexes on them, they're columns. And next to them, there are armored columns, and next to these tanks, there are columns with armored machines that carry the infantry. But then we'll talk about how Estonia is protected. We trust everyone, we're our jackets, we don't say bad things to each other. What do you think Putin's gonna do? It's not working! He doesn't care that you guys here were trusted. And that's why I say I don't trust the people whose mouths I've heard for ten years, 15 years of the same... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U170	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U171	... the same story about how we have a development plan. We have slept with these development plans all the important opportunities! I remember when I was sitting right there in 2015. We raised the possibility of getting tanks for the defence forces of the Republic of Estonia. It would have been possible to obtain a quantity of tanks from a neutral country at a reasonable price. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Leopard 2 tanks were scrap metal to the Reform Party. The situation changed and this scrap was bought from us by the Germans in order to modernise them even more and to deploy them in their defence forces. We have missed all the favourable moments when other countries have reorganized, introduced new, more modern weapons. But the old ones wouldn't be bad either. What has our potential opponent done? Using the same tanks, the models of which were developed somewhere in the 1970s, but they have continuously improved them, installed electronics, new precision sights, and so on and so forth. I'm not so competent in all these things to read exactly what they've done on these old tank bottoms that have turned them into competitive modern weapons on today's battlefield. Now I'm reading from somewhere: in ten years we're 600, I don't remember, $30 million or, basically, buying trucks. In ten years! What's in ten years? We don't know, maybe in ten years the Russians will be back in Berlin. Anyway, if you look at the Russian TV channels, they're threatening it. We'll buy in ten years! Are you kidding me?! What good do we have from these trucks if we don't have anti-aircraft if we don't have the kind of anti-aircraft capability that will take down the very fast-growing drones we saw in the last war in the Caucasus, which also did very confidently, the Armenians who depended on their military capabilities, literally to go to pieces and dust. Within a week, the Armenian army was essentially beaten to pieces and dust. By modern means. But we do. The problem with trust is that there is also a need for control. And then we say that every thorn counts. Of course it matters! Of course it does, but in my short life I have noticed that [always] doesn't matter. When the Republic of Estonia came, I went and took my papers to the National Defence Department and said that I would be happy to contribute. No one has taken an interest in me. No one was interested in me when I was young, nor do I now, of course, that I am already a man. It shows that we don't care about people. We have a reserve army of 25,000, we need at least 50,000, but air defenses, coastguards, armored capabilities. We don't have all this, and that's why I'm saying I don't trust these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U172	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U173	Good manager! Prime Minister! It is Monday night and me and many [others] are trying to make it clear that the war will begin on Wednesday. General Herem has also told this story alongside many others. And what are we discussing today? We are discussing the release of 412 members of the Defence Forces last year, including 101 officers, 232 officers, 79 soldiers. And I find it very hard to believe that my ladies and gentlemen, General Laneman and Colonel Kunnas, do not know what they are saying. I think they know, and I trust [they], as they used to say, they could be reconnaissanced. Wouldn't go with everyone. But now I hear here that all this actually sucks. Yeah, it's supposed to start a war on Wednesday. And if we're 412, as they say, let the boy go before that, I don't know if that's the smartest thing to do. I'm not military, but I'd look at it a little bit wider. If you believe my fellow Members' argument, [then] this [exit] is considerably higher than in the normal year. But remember, last year, there was one thing that was much bigger: there was an extra massacre. And I'm not going to talk about its contents because the analysis, as I understand it, is still not done or being done. But it's also one of those things that it's like you want to know what's going on. There's one more thing I remember as an ambassador: tractors. Where do our tractors go? They prepare every year, but somewhere they disappear like a mole hole. Some say they're going abroad for forest equipment and so on. But the hole is, the mutia hole is large and it is necessary to bring [people] to the stables somewhere and from where other than Ukraine. We now come to the beginning of this story. And there are other things you should look at as a whole. I'm not really a military man, and I don't know if I can trust Martin Herem about this. I wish I could trust you. But I know that in one [thing] I certainly trust him. It is one of our own [thing] that binds us, not only that I also enjoy walking in mottled [clothes]: both of us have an interest in the mole. General Herem is one of Estonia's biggest mole experts, he knows how to live underground and how moles move underground. I envy him about it, and I'd like to be on the same level. In this respect, I really trust him that if a man knows what's going on under the ground, what's going on under the ground, then I think he also knows what kind of movements take place on the soil. This may not be a consolation for many colleagues, but one way or another, I trust him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U174	No more requests. The Prime Minister doesn't want any? Then we're done asking questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U175	And let's move on to the third item on the agenda. An inquiry into the action plan in the event of a military attack by Russia to Ukraine, submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Grünthali, Henn Põlleas, Leo Kunnas, Alar Laneman, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Helle-Moonika Helme, Siim Pohlak and Anti Polandmets, 24.01.2022. And a representative of the heirs, please, Leo Kunnas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Clearly, this question is the most serious of all that I have prepared myself. This is the fourth in line and concerns our plan of action in the event of a military attack by Russia on Ukraine. We presented it on 24 January and it is very positive that this action plan has been discussed by the government today. But let's get this over with. The world's undemocratic superpowers, or totalitarian China and authoritarian Russia, do not hide their main strategic goal of destroying the current United States-centred world order, where the West is in a dominant position. China wants to occupy Taiwan and expand its sphere of influence in East Asia. Russia wants to restore the former Soviet sphere of influence. There is no doubt that Russia and China will work together to achieve these goals and coordinate various activities, including military efforts, leaving the contradictions between them in the background. To this end, according to the Gerassimov doctrine, both superpowers will use all possible means. In this confrontation, any area of life may be transformed into a means of pressure or a weapon used against our allies, our partners and ourselves. For the first time in 2007, we were more seriously exposed to the cyber war on the part of Russia. The information war has been going on all the time since the restoration of independence. Along with the military attack on Ukraine, Russia's anti-Western information and cyber war will undoubtedly become more intense, and our eastern neighbour will increase diplomatic efforts to divide the West and isolate Ukraine. In 2015, Russia put pressure on Norway and Finland with illegal immigration, and its ally Belarus used migrants as a weapon last year against Lithuania, Poland and Latvia, and as a means of pressure against the European Union as a whole. In the event of an attack on Ukraine, Russia could trigger a migration war against the West for pressure and distraction, with the humanitarian crisis and the flow of refugees from Ukraine to [other] Europe leading to this attack anyway. Russia has reduced gas supplies to Europe by using energy carriers as a means of pressure to support the ongoing western diplomatic pressure. In the event of an attack on Ukraine, Russia may restrict or end its supply of gas and oil by triggering an energy war against Europe. Russia is unable to collapse the current dollar-based financial system. However, China has this ability. In the event of a military attack on Taiwan, China could lead the Yuan to the base of gold and thus plunge the Western financial system into chaos. As both countries have increased their gold reserves several times over the last decade, this indicates that they are acting in a coordinated manner in preparation for a financial war against the West. After Russia really launches a large-scale attack on Ukraine, it will not be possible to predict its move, its results and its likely escalation. No war has gone on or ended as the starters have wished or hoped. The situation is getting unpredictable. World War II did not start with Estonia, but Estonia was dragged into it. In September 1939, Estonia did not raise its military readiness even after the war had already broke out, leading to the first pressure from the Soviet Union and the Estonian government breaking down. The mistakes must not be repeated at the time. Estonia has large Russian and Ukrainian communities. Russia's special services will undoubtedly be able to initiate and escalate the conflicts between the various communities, even if they are ordered to do so, up to the point of national armed conflict. This security crisis is therefore of a very complex and complex nature. The best thing we can do right now is prepare for the worst. And that is why we have put a total of 15 questions on different areas. And we have also tried to give such a positive tip to the State Chancellery to help you think these questions through and we can find the best solutions together so that we can do better if we have gone through previous crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U177	And please now answer Prime Minister Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U178	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I absolutely agree that this security situation, which is currently in Europe, is the most difficult situation for 30 years. And I also agree with what Leo Kunnas just said that the best thing we can do is prepare for the worst. If this worst doesn't happen, we're positively surprised. But if he does, at least we're prepared. At the same time, it is also said that the gods laugh when people make plans. But it's better if there's a plan, not that there's no plan. I also want to say that this question is made from a very important angle, but I cannot, obviously, give an answer to all questions from this Riigikogu board or this information precisely because it is partly information covered by state secrets. But I can confirm that the issues raised in the inquiry are being dealt with in the ministries. Just last or, in fact, last Thursday before last, we discussed more than six hours in the Cabinet, we took up all the ministries, the different areas of all the ministries, what will happen then and what will happen then, what should we do, we identified further gaps that need to be filled in. Of course, we can't predict everything, but we'd better try it anyway. I'm gonna start answering again. The first question: "What does the government intend to do to oppose Russia's policy of splitting up? " Russia's dividing policy towards Estonia is nothing new, and it is constantly going, in fact, in the direction of NATO and the European Union. If you look at what Russia is doing today, their focus is that I mean to split our allies. It has been such a negative surprise for [Russia] that we have acted very united in our responses to Russia. Speaking of [Estonia only], the Yearbooks of the Defence Police Department provide a good picture of the split policy that takes place nationally. I also want to say that, in these difficult times, it is very important that we are united, that we understand things the same way, that we reject everyday differences, and that we realise that really, acting together, we are stronger. So the most important thing is for our society to be as cohesive and cohesive as possible. And it is also important that we all respect our Estonian state. The stronger and more united we are, the more difficult it is to divide us. And that also means that we must support both the police and the defence forces, who are at the forefront and clearly a very important element in our defence. Secondly, it is important that the decisions we make are also based on a science and fact-based policy that has not been misinformed. Thirdly, the need to increase media awareness and opposition to the spread of misinformation is important. We apply a broad approach where strategic communication in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, schools, academic institutions can enhance people's media awareness, the ability to assess the reliability of information sources and the ability of critical thinking throughout society. And fourthly, it is important to strengthen those institutions that are working every day to combat Russia's divided policy. To this end, we are also providing additional resources to the Defence Police Department with an exceptional national defence financial allocation. As I said, international communication, not only within the country, but, in fact, with allies, is also very important. Today, we are opposed to Russia's aggressive steps, through the unity of NATO and the Member States of the European Union. We have worked very hard, we have worked very hard to ensure that our messages are united and that Russia is not given concessions at a high price for Ukraine or for us. The second question: Does the government intend to take any initiative in the current information war? If so, which one? " The answer. It is important for Estonia that our partners and allies know our views and important security issues. This is done by [active] diplomatic work, close direct communication with partners, also through the international media, so that the Estonian messages, goals are known as widely and clearly as possible to both our allies and the public of the allied states. Our allies are democratic states, and decisions depend very much on how public opinion develops there. So that Estonia's goals are also known to the Estonian public, we keep our focus focused and are actively engaged in explaining the above-mentioned [joint] international efforts in Estonian society as well. The government is working to ensure Estonia is prepared for the possible effects of the security crisis. There is no specific military threat to Estonia, but we must take into account the possibility that when Russia extends aggression in Ukraine, it will have a clear impact on our security, economy, and, more broadly, on the various aspects of society in Europe. That is why we have decided to invest an additional 380 million euros in strengthening security, in developing Estonia's broad[spatial] national defence. Now, with regard to the dissemination of false information, there are actually two other important points: it is important to address media literacy, resource awareness, information consumption habits. On the other hand, it is also important that the Estonian people use quality media, not propaganda channels, to combat disinformation. Since Estonia is one of the most free press countries in the world, for example, we have moved between 11th and 15th place in the Annual Index of Reporters Without Borders in recent years, the media and these choices are indeed very numerous for people. But it is the duty of each country to ensure that his media space does not call for hatred, does not convey military propaganda, does not call for violence. These are extreme cases where the state has to intervene or can intervene. Thirdly, "What new anti-Estonian narratives in the Russian Information War could be about our unwavering support and military assistance to Ukraine? How is the government going to respond? " Unity with allies is important, and Russia understands that. So there's strength in unity. Russia's first wish seems to be to fragment the unity of its allies both at European Union level and at NATO level. For this reason, they have [submitted] all different requirements or asked to meet all their requirements separately. But we have worked to ensure that this unity is maintained both by personal contacts and by diplomatic means. Russia's aim is to ridicule the activities of the West and to show the United States of America in particular, but allies in general, as well as Estonia as warmongers. Our support for Ukraine received broad attention at the end of last year, and Russia's reaction has certainly been negative. There is nothing surprising about this, and we must not allow ourselves to be intimidated in any way. Our wish is very clearly still to help Ukraine. We support Ukraine's sovereignty by all diplomatic means, including means of military cooperation, as well as economic support. And the creation of negative narratives in the media of the Russian Federation is no surprise. It is important that the Western public, our partners and our experts continue to be united. We can also say that western quality media journalists are sufficiently aware not to spread these narratives. But, of course, it's the day-to-day work. Question 4: "What can Russia do about Estonia in the cyber war? What kind of defence and countermeasures are the government planning? " It is true that Russia's arsenal is part of various attacks and cyber attacks are certainly one of those tools. They have been used against us in the past, they have also been used against Ukraine, and we have learned from the experiences of ourselves and our partners. Couple of points. Firstly, we have worked to prevent cyber attacks by means of deterrence. The perpetrators of cyber attacks can be made clear, and we have also publicly communicated that we have previously imposed sanctions on cyber attackers. Secondly, we also allocated EUR 30 million to cyber defence this year in order to strengthen early warning and preparedness for cyber attacks. Thirdly, in the current security situation, it is actually very important that all public authorities, businesses providing vital and other critical services, local authorities review their cyber defence measures. I also think that not only all institutions, but also people could make the necessary improvements and see if cyber defence is working itself. Unfortunately, I cannot open more specific measures, but the National Defence Committee can also discuss them separately. Fifth: "Lithuania and Latvia have decided to build a border fence already this year. Shouldn't Estonia do the same to avoid a possible migration war? What's the government's plan? " Of course, our security would be much more secure if, in the intervening years, the budget for the construction of the border fence had not been cut. Last year, I would point out that this has not been the decision of the government that is currently in office, we decided to speed up the construction of the border fence by allocating additional resources. With the additional training gathered in autumn, we carried through the cutting wire a barrier to critical border sections at both northeast and southeast borders. The development of the eastern border of Estonia is divided into three sectors. These activities are on the lake's border, the river's border and the land border. And there have been various steps that we have taken to speed up the process of building a state border. So these particular things. Now, the sixth question: How much crisis reserve would the Police and Border Guard Board need to prevent a possible migration war and domestic armed conflict? In what time frame is it to be established? "First of all, border surveillance and the prevention of domestic conflicts are the daily work of the Police and Border Guard Board. The Police and Border Guard Board has different levels of danger and operational measures for this purpose. Measures relating to activities have also been developed for border surveillance, based on a border situation or a border security situation. The Police and Border Guard Board has been tasked with preparing at least 105 emergency police officers with a crisis role this year and 105 emergency police officers with a crisis role, who are also undergoing mass control training. The aim is that, by the end of this year, there would be at least 310 mass-control-trained relief police officers who would help if we had a similar situation at our border as the Lithuanian, Latvian and Polish borders, for example. It is also important here that we also think about the refugees, and that is what we will do if Ukraine really should go to war. Question 7: What measures and what time frame are planned to be implemented to improve the protection of the population? " The answer. First of all, in January, the decision was made that, in addition to the measures of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, we will actually strengthen the protection of the population. Indeed, for the first time, real money has been allocated. This has been said in the past, but the money has not been allocated directly. So that's what we're gonna do. We will deal with specific measures to improve the protection of the population when there is a need. But once again, I assure you that the ministries have dealt with the preparation of these plans and the mapping of problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U179	Prime Minister! We have a problem that we've had 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U180	I get it, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U181	Maybe we can agree with the heirs that they will also initiate questions 8 through 15 in the round of questions, then the Prime Minister can also answer them. Starts with Peter Ernits. Please! [[Silence.]] Peter Ernits?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U182	Yeah. Good manager, the voice was so quiet. Prime Minister, thank you. I have such a simple question. Your former penguin, the current Minister for Social Protection recently came up with such a number that when the war breaks out in Ukraine, we will receive 2,000 Ukrainians. My question: have you discussed this in the government? And how many war refugees could be accepted at all, such as Ukraine? Is this 2000 Signe Riisalo some kind of personal opinion or is it government opinion? Is this the smallest number you could take, or is that the mean or the maximum?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U183	Thank you. Firstly, we must look at what is happening in Ukraine at all. Indeed, when Ukraine is going to have a real war, it is quite likely that war refugees will also come from Ukraine. Different countries have assessed differently how many of these war refugees will come. The next question is how many of these war refugees will come to Estonia and how many we will be able to help. What the Minister for Social Protection has said is based on the opportunities that currently exist. But really, when it comes to war, I think it is our duty to help war refugees from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U184	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U185	Thank you. Prime Minister! We are currently discussing a military attack and, in this regard, we have noted that there is considerable solidarity and unity between the European allies. But don't you think we should expand this context a little bit? It's even very important. We see now that investments are fleeing from Ukraine, people fleeing. The outflow of capital is very high. There is enormous tension in the field of energy, in aviation and so on. We are saying that if Russia goes against Ukraine, sanctions will be imposed on Russia. In fact, Ukraine is currently suffering much worse unproclaimed sanctions than all the things we are planning for Russia. The question is, shouldn't we do something about it? I understand that Estonia does, Estonia's position is okay, but not all our allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U186	Thank you. Indeed, what you are pointing out to the pressure on the Ukrainian economy is a very correct observation. What is positive, however, is that the European Union has already decided to support Ukraine quite significantly with financial assistance that they can withstand. But really, we are also trying to help Ukraine with all kinds of measures, including political support, including military support for their protection and, thirdly, economic support as much as possible. It is clear, however, that you can't put your hand on it if you really say that it's a real war. Each country is still responsible for its own citizens, and if this warning is not given to people and people are affected by it, then it would also be thrown in front of governments or airlines. They're responsible for these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U187	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will read to you a small text of one of the protocols in force, which says: the parties will carry out consultations and exchange information on topical issues, including international relations. This is one of the existing protocols, the author of which is your coalition partner. The second half is Russia's leading party. Given the situation in which we are, will you be more attentive to your coalition partner, who, as we know, has been repeatedly convicted of a crime, his actions in this context, how does it relate to the current international situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U189	Thank you. This single cooperation agreement with Russia did not prevent you from running with them to do the government right after the elections, when we actually won the elections. Memory is optional. But, of course, it is very important to me that all government ministers contribute equally to this situation and that this security situation is equally appreciated. In that respect, we've all been on the same foot.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U190	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U191	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! Whatever military conflict is theoretically breaking out in Ukraine, it is a great [conflict] or it is a total war, it is reflected in fuel prices on the world market, which have already increased significantly today. The government has undoubtedly been discussing this issue. What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia when fuel prices start to rise to two euros per litre and it becomes intolerable and intolerable? What steps has the government planned to take?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U192	Thank you. If Ukraine is really going to be a full-scale war, there are quite a few areas that are very much suffering. In fact, this broad-based plan also includes this because [potentially] not only is there a shortage of raw materials, supply difficulties, there may also be power cuts, other energy disruptions, data communication disruptions. This is actually just as important for the functioning of today's world. So, yeah, these are the things you have to think about. Do I have such a bulletproof solution today that it's coming, and we're about to do it and there's no worries? You know very well that such promises cannot be made because the situation is very dynamic. But I want to assure you that we are really thinking about these things, above all, all kinds of supplies and other such measures, so that we do not have any interruptions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U193	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U194	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I must recognise the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence on one thing: they have started working together to exchange information on border surveillance and border checks and to make better use of the resources that are on one side and on the other side in order to work together on border surveillance. But the question is, border surveillance is one thing, border protection is another. I hope that it will finally come to an end that defending the border is part of the task of national defence. This implies that the whole system must be trained to do so. I want to ask you: do you understand the difference between border guards and border guards?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U195	Thank you. Yes, I absolutely agree with you that border protection is an essential part of national defence. The fact that we can protect our territory from danger from all kinds of danger is important. Just in case, we don't see a direct military threat beyond our borders right now. But, of course, you have to be prepared.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U196	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U197	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! As has already been pointed out several times here, the escalation of the current conflict threat is unpredictable, which means that it is also unknown how it will affect us. I have a question about that. We have thousands of foreign citizens, or so-called short-term workers, who have been granted an Estonian visa for a year, and we still have many workers and temporary agency workers posted from abroad. Most of them are known to be younger men from Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. And my question is how many of these people are actually staying in Estonia. I completely understand that you don't know the exact number, but I'm asking you, either between 10,000 and 20,000 or over 20,000. Question 2: Can we ensure that the current independent immigration policy does not pose a security threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U198	Thank you. I don't have any specific numbers for you. But, of course, we've mapped out the Ukrainian community how many of these people are here and how they're here, on what grounds. But yes, I owe you a specific number. Now, as far as this second part of your question is concerned, we have actually had a rather conservative migration policy. Look at how few people from other countries have come to us, we have limits, all kinds of barriers to it. So I disagree with this diagnosis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U199	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U200	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! You have just mentioned that you have listened for long hours [overview] to the willingness of the ministries. I will then ask you more about the readiness of the [Center] stock in Estonia. It was created during the previous government and in autumn 2021 the Ministry of Rural Affairs also transferred the responsibility of managing the state's food supply. There are several areas, as we know: health, food and liquid fuel supply. It says here that the state's food supply has more than 1,400 tons in total. That's close. Are we talking about increasing supplies? And I'm also asking for general information about this [centre] health. Are things evolving there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U201	Thank you. First of all, the answer to Jaak's White question, I quickly received [data]. Over 12,000 Ukrainian citizens live in Estonia and a total of about 30,000 Ukrainians. They are not all Ukrainian citizens. That's the information I just got. But as far as the inventory center is concerned, yes, the inventory center was set up. The inventory centre is involved in a wide-ranging acquisition of supplies. It includes food supplies, pharmaceutical supplies, fuel supplies, personal protective supplies, as well as alternative measures in the event of power cuts, as well as different measures to ensure continuity of activity. I'm not going to count everything here in a row, but basically this stock centre is going to complement these reserves and their size depends on what we're talking about, either 130 days of demand or 81 days of demand or 64 days of demand. Depending on the product, it is very different. This margin will also be replenished.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U202	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U203	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! Propaganda, as we know, always plays a very important role in all kinds of wars. Has the government discussed the possibilities of restricting Russian-language media in Estonia in case of war in Ukraine? This is certainly a very important issue. Has there been any discussion about this in order to limit the availability of Russian-language channels in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U204	Thank you. As far as I know, the Media Services Act is being discussed in the Riigikogu. I don't know if you've been able to process it, but the [modification] of the Media Services Act also provides an opportunity to make [such] decisions. Basically, yes, Estonia has been very free in terms of the press, and I believe that it will remain so in the future. But in accordance with § 15 of the Constitution, any incitement to hatred is prohibited, if I remember correctly, in any case, and such Russian influence is certainly here. If you look at the numbers, it is positive that Estonian citizens in other languages have started to find more and more Russian-language content produced in Estonia when we talk about news, for example, where they draw their information. I think it's positive. But to come to a specific question, so far we have not discussed banning channels.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U205	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U206	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There are, of course, Estonian soldiers from all over the world on various foreign missions. If, now, let's say, some kind of Russian military assault on Ukraine or some unpredictable events are taking place in the area of military action, what is the government's plan for the soldiers on their mission? Will they be returned immediately? Later, this may be impossible because we do not know what the connection will be with the countries in which they are located. Or do these soldiers calmly continue their mission in the country they were sent to?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U207	Thank you. I would like to stress once again that there is no immediate military threat to Estonia at the moment, but if the situation gets more serious, we will also follow this seriousness and there are plans to do so, including to declare mobilisation and use people, including our own army. But we're not that far now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U208	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U209	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In your introductory speech, you said that it is your wish that we understand things in the same way. And indeed, that is also our wish. That's why I'm going to ask you again about the 380 million that you say the government is going to be additional! - allocated to defence expenditure. In fact, we know that this is not new money, it is the money already earmarked for four years of defence spending with the RES. Bringing it forward is not qualifying as an additional allocation. And secondly, you told me in one answer to the question that I have asked you in the past about the fact that, by this year, you have allocated only 15 million from the government reserve fund. You said the security situation was the most complicated thing in 30 years. I totally agree with that. But again, why are you misleading the public by talking about an additional 380 million? People believed that lie. And right now we have this feeling that on the eve of the alleged war, we also have 380 million to protect ourselves. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Actually, we have 15 million and it's like cumin...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U210	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U211	...and that's from the reserve fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U212	Thank you. You see, the country's budget strategy is prepared for four years. This means that if we bring 380 million earlier, we will not prepare it for eight years. Perhaps if this was foreseen in the National Defence Development Plan eight years later, it will be brought forward to the national budget strategy for four years. Yes, since the budget had already been approved, this year we allocated EUR 15 million from the government reserve. Now, as far as future years are concerned, otherwise we will discuss this in the course of the country's budgetary strategy, but now we have decided this before. Why is it for these four years? But for this reason, all these steps involve procurement, all these things. This payment or use of money will just come in a few years. In national defence, things take time, procurement processes and all that. Why did we decide to make this decision early? It is precisely because when the situation gets critical that it will no longer be possible to make such procurements and contracts. So, yes, still: 380 million we decided to allocate for the next four years, in the first year this [amount] is 15 million. It was precisely because the budget had already been approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U213	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U214	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would ask about a defence loan, helping the people of the EKRE Group, so that the questions they have asked can still be resolved and, in essence, it is important to find solutions. Does the government see today the possibility that some of the costs will be covered by a national defence loan? Has there been any discussion on the need for additional funding exceeding 380 million? Because, unfortunately, no further information has been received from the National Defence Committee, apart from the current initial message that such a sum could come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U215	After all, the political objectives and choices of the state budget strategy and the state budget are reviewed each time and previous decisions can be amended as necessary. From this year on, the country's budgetary strategy will be discussed in the autumn with the budget, twice as before. So, in principle, the medium-term plans are adapted to the economy, both in the fiscal environment and in different areas of activity once. All ministries will submit this plan to the Ministry of Finance by 1 June and this information will also feed into the preparation of the budget strategy. Of course, if there is a need, an additional budget can be made. At present, national defence experts have assessed that the decisions we made are reasonable and necessary in view of the situation and that there is no need to generate additional funds in the form of loans, for example. We can do this. But if the situation really gets any more serious, we need to make an additional budget and take further steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U216	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U217	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. It was nice to hear that you liked to have national defence capabilities, your border guard. I must remind you from history that such a border guard existed who had national defence capabilities, but your predecessors destroyed it. How they destroyed, you can ask your colleague from behind after, he'll explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U218	Thank you. I don't understand what the question was, but I think the border guard or the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Forces are working very well together right now. A good example is this additional study gathering, which focused precisely on defending the border. Officials of the Police and Border Guard Board and members of the Defence Forces indicated that this cooperation was very good and that such projects could certainly be done more. And in my opinion, in a country the size of Estonia, it makes sense that we use all people and resources according to our goal. We want to achieve a certain objective of how we do it is a matter of our own. I think a lot of good steps have been taken here. From the point of view of defence, it is also reasonable for the fleets to be united so that the ships that are in use by the State are also used by the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U219	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U220	Thank you. First, I'm asking you to answer Jaak White. He asked not about the size of the Ukrainian community, but about foreign workers, migrant workers: how many temporary agency workers, posted workers and so on. But I want to talk about population protection. We know how Russia has behaved in Chechnya, Syria and elsewhere. There's been a total brutal bombing of civilian objects. And it is likely that, if the crisis is carried here sooner or later, we hope that it will not get here, the same risks are ambushing our people. In Finland, for example, there is a shelter for every citizen, for every person. During the Russian era, we had many shelters, too, and today they are not. Then civil defense exercises were conducted to help people know what to do in a war situation and a battle situation, how to hide, and so on. We don't have anything. What does the government intend to do about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U221	Thank you. First of all, this inquiry was about willingness to defend, not about foreign workers. That's why I don't have any numbers on the outside force here. You don't know how to prepare for everything. As far as the protection of the population is concerned, it has indeed been said, but very many steps have not been taken. Now, for the first time, we have decided to allocate funds specifically to the wider population protection. I can't bring you concrete steps right now, and I may not be able to bring everything, but the population, people should know what they should do and how there are many different elements here. In this respect, raising awareness is a clear part of this [work].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U222	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U223	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Well, your friend Joe Biden claims there's going to be a war on Wednesday. So how are we going to handle this war now, the 15 million you have now separated from the government reserve? I don't think I'm gonna make it. It's such a marginal note. But I have this question. If Russia decides to punish us by connecting us out of its electricity grid, how has the government planned to cope with all these numerous beds and people? It concerns hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U224	Thank you. In my opinion, it is not right to treat one of your allies as derogatoryly as you do. That's not what I'm suggesting. Secondly, concerning these messages that Ukraine begins... or Russia expands its aggression in Ukraine, these are really very serious messages. Now, your question concerned the desynchronousisation of electricity networks. Indeed, we have taken steps to move forward with the desynchronousisation of the electricity grids and to be prepared to do so if we are somehow shut down from that network. Are we completely ready? You don't know until the end that if these tests [realize], how do we provide electricity? But I am glad that we have actually taken steps to achieve this over the years, and the European Union has also allocated a great deal of money so that we can disconnect our networks from the Russian system. It is precisely because, through these connections, Russia can hurt us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U225	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U226	Good manager! Dear Minister, Let's open up that 380 million again. I do not think there is such a line in the state budget this year. The country's budgetary strategy, as such, has not been debated; it will only take place in the autumn of this year. Just a number has been discussed in the government that does not actually have any legal guarantees. How are all these things now being carried out and the procurement organised, if the Riigikogu has not provided such funds physically? Have I got something wrong? Maybe you can explain to us exactly what the 380 million really is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U227	Thank you. Do you object when it comes? [[Aivar Chef will specify the floor.]] No, as I explained, the budgetary strategy of the state does not go through the Riigikogu and these are decisions taken for four years. The Riigikogu does not endorse the state's budgetary strategy. The Riigikogu approves the budget for a specific year. As we decided on 20 January, these appropriations will be 15 million this year. And it comes from the reserve precisely because the budget has already been approved. But somehow I think that the Fatherland, who has always stood up for national defence, does not dispute that we must take these steps. Now, with regard to the years to come, the country's budgetary strategy and the cabinet decision can be agreed that these are the amounts that we allocate and agree on the country's budgetary strategy for making such decisions. This is because it is a kind of guarantee or a sure guarantee for the Defence Forces and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence so that they can make these purchases. It is known that they will no longer have to fight for this money in disputes over the country's budgetary strategy, but will be able to take the steps that are necessary to ensure that we have the ammunition and other things if we need them urgently.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U228	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U229	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! The first part of the question is whether the Government of the Republic has submitted an application to our ally, the United States, to place Patriot missile systems in Estonia. If this has not been done as an effective deterrent, please explain why. Secondly, actually, I understand that you can correct me if I have a false information that only EUR 2.7 million of this government's separation is foreseen for the acquisition of'moon'. And is it true that there was also a debate on the table last summer for the further acquisition of ammo, but then, even after Putin's large-scale deployment of troops in Ukraine last spring, the threat assessment showed that there was no need for an accelerated procedure for the purchase of ammo?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U230	Thank you. First. We have made a great deal of effort to strengthen NATO's defence and deterrence position on this eastern wing, which also means the development of various capabilities that are actually being negotiated with NATO Member States. Already in the summer, the decision was made that the protection and deterrence stance on the eastern wing should be strengthened, and now more decisions are probably made, which are these specific capabilities. I say, just in case, that Estonia is using Javelin missiles. The third question then was that... In any case, I've written in response that it's not true, but I don't remember what the question was. [[Urmas Reinsalu specifies the floor.]] Yes, right, the question was whether this proposal was on the table and, as if, it was not supported. No, that's not true. (Urmas Reinsalu says something about the hall.) No, I don't remember having such a discussion in the cabinet. Maybe the Department of Defense has had this kind of discussion on some level.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U231	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U232	Thank you. Prime Minister! I can confirm that the Fatherland supports the comprehensive strengthening of national defence, both organisationally and through political and diplomatic activities, as well as financially as regards the allocation of funds. However, I am asking for clarification on the same 380 million, on which you have confirmed that the government has made a political decision in the Cabinet, and that gives the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces the assurance that they can start procurement and certain activities so that the government takes this into account when drafting the RES in the autumn. There's a certain logic in that. I have a question as to why the government has not taken a similar decision, for example, in the award of higher education contracts. All of Estonia's higher education is paralyzed. I mean, you could make the exact same decision. The amount is in the order of magnitude less than we are talking about the order of magnitude of twenty million and we can sign contracts. And would you be so good as to tell me how the 15 million planned this year will be divided?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U233	Thank you. I honestly do not currently have a separate division of this year. I owe you that answer. However, as far as all other areas are concerned, this is the process of planning a country's budgetary strategy. Today, this most difficult security situation of all time, or of the last 30 years, rose very quickly, and that is why we had to make these decisions before the normal procedure. Of course, I would also like us to be able to finance all areas equally. I think that in all the other countries of the European Union, which have far better neighbours than we do, there is much more freedom not to invest as much in defence as Estonia needs to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U234	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U235	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I think it is very good that the government takes national defence very seriously and that there will really be extra money in the coming years. But...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U236	Mr. Juske, I'm interrupting for a minute. Dear gentlemen in the right wing, Mr. White and Mr. Põlluaas, it's going to be a terrible buzz. Mr. Samke's question hasn't even been heard here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U237	Oh, I have a very good question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U238	Please, Mr. Juske, ask!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U239	The modern war still plays a very important role in the information war. And I'd say on this front of the information war, we're losing ground today. I still come back to this: why has the government not clearly restricted the spread of these anti-Estonian channels in Estonia and when does the government intend to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U240	Thank you. I don't know what you're saying on the basis of which we're clearly losing. It seems to me that our focus is very much on ensuring that these Russian narratives do not sound. The narratives Russia is trying to put forward are that NATO is acting aggressively, that NATO states are somehow building this thing up. I don't see that anyone really believes that. As I said before, yes, Russian propaganda is very powerful. Different things contribute to this, including media literacy and so on. Specific prohibition decisions we really have not made. And it is positive that the listening-observability of Estonian Russian-speaking channels has actually increased over the years. The residents of other Estonian languages will find this information channel. But yes, I agree with you that these aggressive narratives are a problem. If specific channels are disabled, you will not close the internet, so it will spread in any case. It is important whether our people believe this story or not, and whether it has any effect on our people, on our people in other languages and, in fact, on the international community. I don't see anyone believing in Russia right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U241	Good Prime Minister, no further questions. Thank you! Let's go to the negotiations. On behalf of the heirs in Leo Kunnas, please! Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U242	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a rather complex question, and in fact it was meant to be so that the entire State Chancellery and the Ministry could work thoroughly on these issues. We do not expect all the questions to be answered now. But I will try to further analyse in this key what I myself, Madam Prime Minister, would do if I were you in this situation. The same advice that I am giving you now, I would also give Jüri Ratas, Martin Helme, Helir-Valdor Seeder or Lauri in the Western Forest if they were in the role of Prime Minister: how, from which point of view, this crisis complex should be discussed. It is clear that the security crisis is the most dangerous of them, and in order for us to be able to tackle it effectively, we should try to overcome the other crises. The first is, of course, the COVID crisis. How do you try to beat it now? What would I do? With this crisis, I would try to do two things: abolish all restrictions and strengthen hospital capacity. There is no other solution to the current strain, and that is how it is done in Western Europe. Maybe there'll be some new strain, the situation will change, but then we'll get our hands off this crisis. Of course, this would require additional budgets, additional resources, to strengthen hospital capacity. But that's what I'm getting to. The next is the energy crisis, the second piece of the puzzle. What do you do with it? I am afraid that radical solutions are not possible here. So we have little more to do than stop this carbon trade for a year and then think about how to go about it. Because the money that goes there is just too big and that money is needed elsewhere. And you could also consider exiting the power exchange system because it's clear that it's not working right now. This stock market needs to be fixed so it can start working again. Then we can get our hands free for this major crisis. Otherwise, all three components of the crisis will fall on us at the same time and we will not be able to solve it. How can the current crisis be resolved? There has been a lot of criticism here about everything that has not been done before. Yes, I would also say, in fact, that the National Defence Development Plan 2009-2018 was a very good plan, from the time of the Ansip Government. 42000 wartime defense forces, four circuits, midland anti-aircraft, tanks. That was a big plan. But what happened after? We just gave it up, said it was a paper army. Twenty thousand men are not a paper army and 42,000 are? It's just an army that needs more resources, more effort. This army was created according to operational needs. General Laaneots spoke to SACEUR, perhaps the American generals, and others, about what force we need, which we need to have the minimum, so that we can fight, that we can survive here until the Allied forces arrive. But we gave it up, we didn't do it, and now there are gaps. Similarly broad-based defence. We have only just started with this, but now we have a situation where we really need all of this now, perhaps next year, perhaps the year after next. Maybe God will tell you it can't get to us, but it can. What, then, can we do about it? There is nothing else here but that all the solutions that we had so far actually do not work anymore. We cannot do two things now at the same time: to try to resolve this three-component crisis and, at the same time, to try to bring the budget towards balance. These two things just don't add up. But the risks are too great if we go to the point of trying to move there at all costs towards balance. I have talked about this with the Minister for Finance, I will talk about it now, I will talk about what I myself would do in this situation, and I will speak completely frankly, because I would not give myself ill-advised advice or other party leaders in the current crisis, because this crisis is simply too serious. We just need an extra budget. It must keep in mind the various components that we are dealing with, and without delay, in order to strengthen military defence, to strengthen broad-based national defence and to resolve other components of the crisis, such as hospital capacity. Now we just have to do it all at once. If we take purely military defence, it's an elementary necessity if we want to do the mid-earth air control we need, with four batteries to protect the Suur-Tallinn space, the allied forces, and the brigades, so that we have a tank battalion or two tank companies, so that we have land defence with about eight more battalions with a map capacity with close-air defence capabilities. That's probably all that could be 800 million, maybe a billion. We could have put 50 or 100 million in here every year. We didn't do it. But now we have a need, just pushing on. If the political leaders had said before the War of Independence that we did not have what we should go to war with? They had no choice but to create it as quickly as possible. At present, it is simply the security and future of the country, the existence as a whole, that is at stake. These principles, which we have been following so far, simply cannot be based on them. So this year's plan and the plan for the next four years, what are we really gonna do? It is clear that we cannot proceed with the current development plan, which we have made within the framework of 2%. 380 million more is a very good step. But it doesn't solve this complex that's still unsolved. We need a completely different approach. Six months ago, perhaps this [different] approach was not justified, but now the situation has changed so much dynamically. I don't know what the situation is in two months or six months. Even if there is no war now, there will be a new escalation, just as it was last spring. Russia will continue its policy of pressure on Ukraine as long as Ukraine wants to break down and get a self-righteous government there. He basically wants to break the West, he wants to achieve his strategic goals, and he doesn't compromise on that. The confrontation we're in doesn't shrink, it just gets bigger. We still have time, maybe we still have time to react to make these efforts, to do these things. That is why we really need, as I said, solutions that we might not have thought about six months ago. We just need to try to seize this situation. Perhaps the situation is as different as it was in mid - 1938 and mid - 1939, for example. This [may change] for months or during that year. We don't know that, we'll only see that in the future, at what point we're at in this timeline. But now we still have the opportunity to act, and now there is no point in making reproach for who did something wrong. Now we just have to solve this complex. And when responsible subordinates say it doesn't have to be done, they're wrong. Then they're very wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U243	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U244	Ladies and gentlemen, dear people! We listened to Leo's report a moment ago. Leo was still optimistic when he said we had time, we had time, maybe there's time. I'm telling you, Leo: no, we don't have time anymore, this time is over. And we're still in a situation where we're going to have to repeat the words that have already turned into a trafaretic. What we're doing, it's all maybe too late, maybe too little, because we've made the wrong choices in nature. I will bring you an interesting parallel of this tract, how fascism is defined in Russia. This is not what we know and what we read about in the theory of law or philosophy. Fascism is a much easier thing for them. Those who have studied in the Soviet era, they know: a fascist state is a country with an aggressive foreign policy, with a dictatorship with repression of the internal opposition, aggressive domestic politics and militant imperialism. This is the tract that was taught to know fascism in Russia. By the way, Russia itself is currently subject to this definition in a very clear way. And now, dear friends. We are talking about Fascist Russia, which brings together hundreds of thousands of troops a few thousand kilometres away near our borders. We're just wondering exactly what we can do, what we can still do. I'm telling you, there's nothing we can do right now. We need to see what we've done and where we are at the moment. But at the moment, we are where we have a government whose party has an agreement with Russia to share information, political experience, knowledge with Russia. And, of course, the Prime Minister said here in advance, just as in the comment: but we were, too. But look, time is different. One thing is where we were, another thing is where we are now, the moment the war knocks on the door. And now we [are in position], as the old Romans say, si vis pacem, para bellum. Let us prepare for war. How do we prepare? We prepare for war in such a way that we weaken society, weaken the defence forces, destroy society, bring up tensions, even with corona, and demolish the economy. And then, oh wonder, oh wonder, we will send our government's emissaries to negotiate a border treaty with Russia. Maybe we can still make a border deal. We make a border treaty in a situation where war knocks on the door? And now I ask you again, how do we prepare for war? What does all this tell us? But what it says is that in this situation, there is a serious question of the trust of this government. How can we trust such a government in such decisions? I think it's really hard for me. I don't know how you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U245	Thank you very much. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U246	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna start my speech a little further away. At the moment that I was serving forced time in the Soviet army, a small, fat praporschik climbed into the car seat next to me and began to explain to me probably boredom, and he also needed to give me a little [teaching], he began to tell me what you Estonians were thinking. You had an Estonian state, no more. History doesn't turn back. I gotta say, he was damn right. Indeed, history does not reverse. But he was wrong about one thing. That's because history doesn't happen again. He's moving in a completely different key, just like in a spiral. And I am therefore delighted that the school study programme is a subject such as history. Because we do not get the knowledge that ever happened there, but we also learn a lesson about avoiding the mistakes that have ever been made in history. Listening to today's debate, I am a little disappointed by the message that the head of our government has sent to us and the people here in the Riigikogu. I'm gonna start by asking you what happens to our contingent, who's focused on different missions around the world. Will they be returned immediately, or will they still be left there for the duration of their mission? The answer was very strange for the Prime Minister: that we have no security threat now, and then we will decide and see. There are a number of soldiers abroad who are specialists and who we would actually need any moment here in Estonia. Today, events take place very quickly, and then it is virtually impossible to get them out of there. In fact, even now, a mandate should be issued so that our so-called best contingent can be brought here, just in case. I don't understand why they don't. And now, if you touch history, you should definitely look back on the 1930s and 1940s when Europe began to face the great threat of war, which eventually escalated into World War II. Aren't you familiar with such games? And is it not familiar with how Europe was divided into spheres of influence during this period? If we look at the messages now that the great powers are telling us that war is about to start, and if this war starts, we will impose sanctions. For me, the question is, if we really want to avoid this war, why are we not imposing these sanctions on a European and global scale now? It would also be one of the tools to influence the so-called parties to refrain from this escalating war, which, as is already known, I am using the data published here in the press, was supposed to take place... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U247	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U248	... February 16th, Wednesday day. Is this information true? I don't know. At least they say it's the details of U.S. intelligence. Let's keep looking. Why has Norway's public data again concentrated 150,000 men near its borders? Interesting! I don't know why. Those signs aren't just like that. And is it not that Russia has concentrated its troops somewhere in southern Ukraine, a diversion to the fact that, at one point, a breakthrough is taking place in the direction of Kaliningrad through Suwałki Corridor? Anything's possible. The opponent does not have to disclose his plans. And can't this date, which has been claimed to be an outbreak of war, be a one-day shift, so "maybe" Ukraine will launch an unexpected missile strike on the Russian army? Today we live in an extremely complicated world where we know nothing about what can happen, because we are actually the playthings of the great powers here in Estonia. And against this background, I find it extremely sad and a little painful to look at when the Prime Minister tells us that we have no security threat. The security door is already open. Here I would like to have another criticism at the Prime Minister. In fact, in this extremely dangerous situation, the so-called political games and the children's room for political games should be stopped, where sharpness is said instead of answering opposition ambassadors' questions. This is not right in the present situation. It is up to you now to merge the coalition and the opposition into a common fist so that we can fight back together if necessary. With Haral's fingers, you don't hurt your opponent. You want an example? Paul Puustusmaa asked what would happen to this agreement between the Centre Party and Russia with full sincerity. What was your answer? The answer was that you yourself ran to form this government. I apologize because I'm gonna raise this fight again. But it is still your task now, good Kaja Kallas, to unite the Estonian people so that they do not pull out of the sea again, as was the case during World War II. You have to resist in the spirit of the Sinimäed Mountains, and that is your task right now, because you are the head of government. I wish you the best of luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U249	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U250	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Kaja Kallas! This time I was going to come to this remote control, last time I said, I had no intention, this time I had an intention. And the intention was, because this is an extremely important complex of questions, not about the survival of some government, not about the survival of some political elite, but about the survival of the people, about the survival of the Estonian people in crises that may hit us and may not be purely military either. We can be punished with a wide range of attacks, from cyber attacks to hybrid attacks, for supporting Ukraine now. We could be punished. Do we have the readiness, as I asked in my question, to solve the problems in all the numerous sleeping areas that exist in Estonia? According to my information, in Lasnamägi alone, there are about 130,000 people living in the world! just how to solve their problems when electricity disappears when the water system doesn't work, when people on the 9th and 16th floors have to start bringing their bodies down or throwing their bodies off the balconies? In the dark, of course, because there is no light. Or can you imagine that people on this channel are squatting there because there is a need to meet their needs, but there is no water? What's the readiness? I remember we raised this issue with our small group of seven at the time already in 2015, in the previous Riigikogu. Then the Prime Minister answered us: we have a task force formed. The Task Force will find out what needs, what opportunities are and what we will deal with. The Task Force did indeed hand over its report, which is likely to be dusting somewhere on the shelf right now. Nothing's happened. During our government, we started working on creating a supply agency. Then came upon the corona, then came upon the coup d'état of the apparatus. And at the end of the year, sometime in November, we asked Taavi Asa, and Taavi Aas said that in December, a report would be presented on how far it would be to establish an inventory agency and how all these different means of life would be solved there, from food and water to handling drugs and other things and sharing them logistically, if such a crisis really occurred. As much information as I have right now, it's basically on the shelf and nothing's going on. Now, let's imagine that there really is a military conflict. Or even if it does not, Russia will introduce blockade measures against so-called unfriendly countries. Blocking measures, which means that one day we will be out of fuel and half of our fuel supply will be in the Nordic countries. In the current situation, should the government not deal with bringing those parts of the fuel supply, which are in the Nordic countries, to Estonia? I'm asking a rhetorical question. I don't know, maybe the government has been discussing this issue, but I think it is extremely necessary. Now, when it comes to finance, it is no secret for those who watch the international media to know that Russia and China are actively cooperating to destroy the dollar-based financial system. Countries that are... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U251	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U252	Countries that have accounted for this have also engaged in the collection of gold reserves and other possible means of payment or instruments suitable for barter transactions. The father of the current Prime Minister was the one during which the gold reserves of Estonia were exchanged for shares that were now completely worthless. This must have been extremely useful for the Republic of Estonia. These stocks cost nothing, especially in a crisis situation. Stock markets are likely to collapse at all. We don't have any stock markets anymore. And we don't have any gold. We don't have any universal means of payment or money on the spot. What am I gonna say about all this? Time is running out, but I could, of course, give an hour and a half lecture, and there's a way to get into the bones at the university. This is that we are not prepared systematically and over time. And I don't just blame it on the current government. It's been a line. We have had all the time for possible crises [in preparation]. There's time, there's no immediate threat right now! We have also heard today that there is no immediate threat right now. This, of course, is in stark contrast to the fact that they say that we are in the worst security crisis in the last 30 years. Well, we're in the worst security crisis of the last 30 years, but there's still no immediate threat to us. But when will this immediate threat come? Once the first missiles have been hit by Toompea? When will this immediate threat come? I'm telling you, friends, I totally agree with Paul. We don't have time anymore. Ukraine is finished. Ukraine is finished, this panicked escape shows. Everyone collects their soldiers, everybody collects their diplomats, everyone takes their capital out of there. As of 12 billion days ago, capital had been taken out of Ukraine. Ukraine is finished, what else are we talking about? The Russians don't need to invade. They're taking over this country, slowly, they've basically achieved their goal. And then who will be taken over? Who else is left? A rhetorical question to which we all know the answer. But we have plenty of time. We have no immediate threat right now. Prime Minister! I'm sorry... Your father says it's a personal attack and insult. There is no personal attack and insult. You have taken this profession voluntarily. And right now your party is trying to save you by presenting you as a great security and foreign policy guru who will save the future of Estonia by kissing Scholz and Macron and some others. But actually, we heard today that you're completely incompetent. You don't have any constructive answers. You speak against yourself, you lie to society that you have made 380 million investments in security, which is a bluff. It's a bluff! Please resign to a new government that takes this situation seriously and takes real steps to maintain independence immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U253	Urmas Reinsalu, please! Three minutes extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U254	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The situation requires urgent action from us and we must not leave Ukraine. Ukraine is not lost at all. On the contrary, we must be the country that also calls on its allies to defend a stronger, clearer Ukraine. Now the question of practical steps in the field of Estonian defence. Of course, when we speak openly and honestly about the threat assessment, there is, in reality, a threat to the security of the whole of Europe. And, of course, the NATO border states are particularly at risk after Ukraine, there is no doubt about that. First of all, the pursuit of the allies' actual deterrence. I did not speak for nothing about the question, Madam Prime Minister, of the Patriot missile systems. And now you, Madam Prime Minister, said that we already have the Javelins. The difference between Javelin and Patriot is that Javelin is actually designed to destroy tanks at short distances. Patriot is actually involved in long-range air defense, including missile defence. So these are different abilities with different functions. But in addition to the symbolic additional presence of the allies, and I welcome all the steps that are being taken, the real weight of the UK is the decision to increase its military presence numerically. However, we also need real military deterrence on the ground in Estonia, with the emphasis on the United States. And that must be a clear request. Secondly, as regards defence spending and defence, I think you know, Madam Prime Minister, that you can always count on the Fatherland in defence matters. The question is that, of course, not EUR 15 million has been allocated from the additional budget this year, but EUR 2.7 million has been allocated to the actual acquisition of ammo. And we can now talk about the past, why so little was acquired. Was the threat assessment really [wrong]? If this imperialist, holistic intention of last year were to be viewed in Putin's handwriting, then it would have been a reason to make the ammo decisions earlier and also to carry out the procurement earlier, because really now all the Western countries, all the countries of the world, are running to buy ammo. It's no secret. But this is already the situation that has gone into the situation. Now, without a doubt, we have to deal first of all with the acquisition of ammo as a matter of urgency. It is natural and elementary that we are adopting an additional budget for this year as a defence budget. And EUR 2,7 million - EUR 2,7 million! This is, in fact, a question of a decimal place in our defence budget today, the problem of a miscalculation. This is certainly not enough in any way. Yes, Mr. Secretary of Defense said: we do not have warehouses for ammo. I'm telling you, I studied with experts, you can always be sure of us that we also have mobile storage facilities for ammo. This issue, in itself, can be resolved purely technically by asking for help from allies. That is certainly not a separate question. The second point concerns the development of military capabilities adopted by the government last December, as referred to by Colonel Kunnas, a ten-year development plan. One thing: we are talking about the goods that need to be acquired as a matter of urgency. Moon logic is due to the fact that we have a real acute threat. But alongside this, we also need a faster development of military capabilities. Here the views may differ from the assessments, which might be preferable to and for which it is not, but it is clear that we need an additional defence budget as the so-called top-up' of 2%, plus an allies and plus a defence investment programme precisely for faster capacity development. Let's say it's 2.5% for the 10-year development plan. And so, at Parliament's level, this decision must be taken. This must be taken as a basis. This will, of course, allow us to say on the basis of military advice on what capabilities we would be able to develop more quickly, because they are wrong, and I believe that from this threat assessment in Parliament, an open risk assessment will actually begin with a diagnosis [who say] that this crisis is a short-term, transient [of nature] crisis. Russia's aggressive handwriting certainly does not go away from the years, as has been shown by the painful experiences of its neighbours when they have fallen victim to military aggression in the Russian Federation. And now that we are talking about the steps that we need: an increase in the actual deterrence of the allies, our additional budget, both the intention to buy more quickly and the faster development of capabilities, the reform of the ten-year perspective. The concrete basis for this must be the introduction of new security policy foundations by the government to Parliament as soon as possible. This must give a clear political mandate and I encourage the Government to do so. Firstly, an honest and frank threat assessment of the situation in our region, as well as in our country, and secondly, a clear ambition, a greater ambition with regard to the changed threat assessment of the behaviour of our aggressive nuclear state neighbouring country, will also force us to make these decisions. Now that we are talking about supporting Ukraine, I am sure that we will all be following with concern [the ruling] uncertainty. And I want to stress here that it is really important for us to stick together now, all political forces, and to be prepared to support Ukraine further. I say, once again, I stress that, when we were in Ukraine last week, our Javelin decision was taken very positively at these meetings. The Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian politicians, were sincerely grateful on behalf of the Ukrainian state. In fact, their messages were still unambiguous: if you can still call on your allies to contribute to military assistance, it will also have an independent political deterrent [effect]. Secondly, it is still a matter of swift and politically immediate sanctions against the aggressor. And the third very serious issue concerns the legal responsibility for these crimes, including the ongoing war crimes and humanitarian crimes that the Russian Federation is still committing in real time in occupied territories. And I would call on the Government of the Republic to think about it. In fact, we had the idea with representatives of the Ukrainian state that in several countries in Europe there was a criminal universal jurisdiction concerning crimes against humanity and war crimes. This is also a matter of taking into account our cooperation with the Ukrainian state, which we could also consider: the universalisation of our criminal law as regards war crimes and crimes against humanity. Such a concrete real proposal. But once again, let's do it! These were my concrete proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U255	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U256	Good manager! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I was driven here by that 380 million. For the Fatherland Party, security policy and national defence have always been one of the main issues for which the heart has been hurt. And then we're gonna hear somewhere in the office in January talking about 380 million. We know very well here in the Riigikogu that financial decisions are made by the Riigikogu. If the government wants some kind of decision that goes beyond the possibilities given to the government in the state budget up to the government reserve, it should come here and discuss it. So far, these discussions have been a one-off debate when the Prime Minister spoke before us about the state of play and problems with our neighbour. Now I'm wondering if they're trying to lie or mist or just covering one subject with another. Today, people are concerned about the energy crisis, how to cope with their home expenses. And then they bring it to the table, they say 380 million, which isn't really there. When Helir-Valdor Seeder asked that 15 million have been allocated to this year by the Cabinet's decision for which we did not receive an answer. And the decision of the cabinet is not yet a final decision. The final decision will be taken by the government if it decides to allocate money from its reserve for something. Of course, our safety is very important. I remember very well when Urmas Reinsalu, a member of our party, came from America and said with a loud, clear voice that we needed help. I remember laughing at it for a month. And then, at one point, NATO clearly decided that its planes and soldiers and their technology would come here with a stable presence to protect the NATO border and the security of Estonia. Today is exactly the same situation. We are talking about large sums of money with a loud voice; in reality, there are no such sums. They have not been in the RES debate. The fact that someone is saying that they will be in the RES for the next four years, the RES debate will not be until September, in accordance with the law in force today. And even if the RES makes a decision, it doesn't make sense that the state budget has those amounts. Today we can discuss whether any additional budget will be made this year when more money will be added if necessary. Or we can talk about the state budget coming next year at the end of September and talking about the budget figures for next year. In my opinion, this should be explained to our people today very accurately and correctly. If you go to the elderly today, they'll ask that 380 million were promised to national defence, but 80 million for retirement didn't last this year. If you go to college, the university Rectors will say you're talking about the defense costs of 380 million, but 20 million weren't enough to support higher education. Actually, there's no money anywhere today. Three minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U257	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U258	What's the deal anyway? In fact, if we sense that national defence needs resources today, I have heard that we have good weapons, but there is no ammunition. I think a majority in this Chamber would support if a loan had to be taken in order to make these decisions today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. This could be done clearly in the form of an additional budget. Then there would be this knowledge and there would also be a legal basis for making these decisions. It can always be agreed that, if these decisions are taken today and, as a matter of urgency, procurements are announced and these purchases are made in the coming year, there will be no need for these expenditures in the coming years. Let's do it today, maybe next year's spending will be lower. But these decisions must be transparent, they must be legal. They have to be like that we can't say we wanted better after, but it turns out like usual. I hope that today's government will make these decisions when it is seen what needs to be bought exactly. If necessary, an additional budget will come to the Riigikogu, and I believe that everyone who is worried about this issue will certainly support it and, if necessary, it will be granted a loan and it will also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U259	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U260	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Madam Prime Minister! Debates on defence, especially in today's situation, where we have been threatened that the war will start the day after tomorrow, are absolutely necessary. I fully agree with what you said some time ago in replying to the previous question that we should discuss these matters together, together, the same thing, the Estonian national defence business. Really, but if I look in this hall now, who do I see? I see the ambassadors of the Conservative People's Party, I see the ambassadors of the Fatherland, but I don't see any ambassadors of the Reform Party, I don't see any ambassadors of the Central Party. Yes, Minister Aas, you are here and a member of the Central Party, but you are not an ambassador. And I don't see any Social Democrats sitting here either. Luckily, one came, but only one. What does it say? It talks about it, and it shows very well who is really worried about our security, our security, our future. These are not members of the government coalition. And not only does it make you sad, but it actually gives you a perfectly clear [picture] of how our good government and government coalition view the matter. We have heard here both from the Minister of Defence and from the Prime Minister that they are not experts, they are not able to answer these issues and they cannot take a stand. Indeed, even today, when asked if we had asked the United States, our good ally, for technical and equipment assistance, for example, in the form of patriot missiles, which are anti-aircraft weapons, we received the answer, but we do have Javelins. Those are anti-tank weapons. It is also a lack of basic competence that echoes here with all this debate today and various questions about defence matters against us. This is extremely worrying. We received a message of joy some time ago that we were putting 380 million into national defence. Great! But it won't be for years until it comes. But that's what we need today. We have also heard what this money is going to be used for and where. There are different data here than several million in one year and two and three years. But as I understand it, most of the ammunition goes to both light weapons and cannons. Excellent! Excellent, but this is not a speeding-up of the National Defence Development Plan [the implementation], as we were told. It's not one gram that accelerates our national defence development, it's just patching holes. This is compensation for the omissions of previous years. And we know that ammunition will not be there today or tomorrow or even this year, even though we are facing war at the door, but it will take several years. And we also have a very serious... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U261	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U262	...very serious gaps in defence capabilities, which were not intended to be filled in at all, were not included in this development plan, the ten-year development plan. And these gaps, too, in today's situation, are not intended to be resolved at all. If we don't have the money, there's a solution. There's been a lot of talk about it, it's been talked about for many years. It's a defense loan. And it has to be done as a matter of urgency. This will also allow coastal defence, armoured technology, mid-ground air control procurement to be announced with ammunition, and we will receive them together with this ammunition at the same time. Afraid it would be too late, just as in 1939, when suddenly woke up, they started to get the necessary armor, but we were too late, didn't get anything. But at least let's hope that if we do all this now, maybe we can get it on time. We have been given the reason that we do not have training in mid-earth air control. Of course not, but we'll send our men to study with our allies, and by the time this technology gets here, we'll have trained teams. But nothing is done, as if nothing is happening in the world. The national defence loan in today's situation, where we get it at zero interest rate or even at negative interest rate and where inflation runs at a huge rate, is [justified]. The smartest thing is to take a loan at this very moment to pay it back much less someday. This is not a racket, it is a self-preservation activity literally, because if we do not have all the [necessary] tools, we will not be able to defend ourselves. All these things have been talked about repeatedly and repeatedly for many years. We have made proposals to the government; the National Defence Committee has made proposals to the government. But the answer is just no. To tell the truth, and not only for me, but also for so many other experts in the military area, our defence forces and our defence allies, I have a lot of contact with them, but why has the government, why is the head of our defence forces fighting with nails and teeth against the development of Estonia's defence capabilities, our security, our ability to defend ourselves and our independence? And inevitably, in such cases, the ancient Roman question of cui bono always comes to mind? So when you say, "Who will benefit? ' Not to the state of Estonia, not to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U263	Thank you very much. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U264	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I really like to reflect back what's already been said on the remote. I'm gonna grab those Javelins and Patriots. No doubt, no matter what area we are talking about, we can't all be experts, but I hope in this Chamber we're all patriots. And on this basis, we can make decisions and actually maintain a common foreign and security policy line. So instead of making all these Javelins and Patriots clear to myself, I trust our Commander of the Defence Forces, I trust our government to make this type of decision. Undoubtedly, demandingness is important both in terms of funding and in terms of concrete decisions. And we have to keep this pretentiousness in this hall. But in addition to Estonia's defence capabilities, we are talking about a wide range of defences, so that we can all be prepared. And it cannot be over or over that, in addition to ammunition, social trust is also very important, that we are united, that we are actually able to save as a society, and that no matter what the challenge is, which crisis and security policy issue hits us, we can save in the interests of Estonia. I very much hope that Estonia will not face such a security policy crisis around this corner. But the situation in Ukraine is at hand, and it is still our first task to show support for Ukraine. After all, we understand both the threat they face and the functioning and tactics of the Russian state. It is our duty to explain this to our allies, and it is our duty to stay behind Ukraine. But no matter what is happening in Ukraine, it cannot be over or around that everything that is about disinformation and that is about us creating divisions in society is now and will continue to be confusing. And in order to cope with this, it is not enough to just be armed forces, investments and cost increases. I think that in this Chamber there is a great responsibility for what positions we take, what information we provide and how we build trust in society. I hope that all of us here will be up to our responsibilities, we will support Ukraine and we will stand up for Estonia to be socially strong and ready for any situation that should hit us in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U265	Thank you. For his part, the Prime Minister would like to make a speech. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U266	Thank you. I'll go over a few things first. I've always said we have a security threat. I've been saying on the other hand that we don't have a direct military threat at the border. These are two different things, you have to understand that. Now a few comments, first for Leo Kunnas. The health crisis, you say, is that we are strengthening hospital capacity. I absolutely agree with you, but the problem is that in this crisis, people are no longer willing to work in these COVID departments. And so what if we create more beds? How much do we create? People don't come to work there, sisters don't come. We've allocated a lot of money to hospitals so they can handle it, but no one's gonna make it work. So we have to deal with this to prevent these people from going to the hospital. Vaccination continues to help prevent serious illness. Let's take the percentage of how many people in the hospital are heavy with COVID and who are unvaccinated, even more so than many of those who die have not been vaccinated. Second, energy. You say the power exchange system is not working, but in reality this system has brought us cheap prices for a very long time. From 2016 to the second half of 2021, our electricity price was 40% cheaper than in Central Europe. If we set some limits there, say we don't pay more than that, for example, then the question is who's gonna sell us electricity if we don't have enough power of our own. We have also seen the moments in the world where electricity production is actually shut down because there are price regulation. So we have to look at it. In my opinion, one is the price increase that we certainly have to deal with so that people can cope with it. But worse than that, there's no electricity at all, and we need to prepare for it. Now, the budget. We are not trying to balance the budget at all costs. But I want to say that we are going into this crisis or these crises weaker because the budget yawned such a hole. If you are taking the financial crisis, why did Estonia come out of this crisis better than Latvia and Lithuania, for example? [The reason] was that we didn't have much debt and we had supplies collected. This time the supplies were spent, and that was the problem. Now, from the budget. I would also like to say here to others that somehow I have a very strange conflict in my head when I listen here to the ambassadors of the Fatherland and the EKRE ambassadors who say that nothing has been done for years, that we have been making these proposals for years, we have been saying that this should be done for years. I'm sorry, we made our first budget. You've been the Secretary of Defense, why haven't you done the things you're talking about here, so you should do this and the other and the third and the fourth? Why didn't you do those things when you were in the government and you were in charge of this area? That's a good question. I think it's a little weird. Now, the question was, I don't remember who said we really didn't know anything. I would argue with that. We have much more information than in 1940 because of satellite images and all that. We know the location of the troops. The only thing we don't know and can't possibly know about all this information is what Putin thinks, what the Kremlin does with this information. We see this picture that all abilities have been pooled to attack Ukraine, but whether or not they are finally done is a separate issue. What I really want to say is, what Riina Sikkut said about this matter... Do I get more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U267	Yeah, there's more time. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U268	Thank you. This situation is so complicated that we still need to be united here. The question is, in my opinion, very right: how can we prepare for the [heavy] situation in different areas? But I don't like ripping the blanket that's going on here, who's a bigger defender than any other. Let's point out that at this point, only the ambassadors who have made an inquiry will listen. It is always the case that those who question the opposition listen to questions. When there was my political statement on defence, the hall was full and people asked questions, discussed, made speeches. By the way, it was just weird that at the time the Riigikogu did not want to hear what the Minister of Defence had to say about this. He wasn't allowed to perform. But that's it. What I'm saying is that I believe I speak for everyone, that we are all equally concerned. Our history is what our history is. If we have learned anything from our history, it is that we must never be alone again and that we must prepare to defend our independence. If you don't need it, it's great! But we [must] make preparations. And what I want to say on behalf of the government is that we have taken real steps to ensure that our defence capabilities are guaranteed. One is that we allocate extra money, and that is why we are taking these steps in an accelerated manner. The second is that we communicate with our allies, [the objective] is to strengthen the attitude of defence and deterrence. Really, I wouldn't go to the details of whether they're patriots or what they are exactly because I can't talk about it here, what we've talked about with the allies, what they can do specifically for us or with us. But I want to assure you that we are working on strengthening the defence and deterrence stance here in Estonia with our allies. Finally, I would like to say that it is really important that we, however, stick together and support the various parts of society in these crises, so that we are able to resist the crisis more strongly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U269	Thank you. Some lines have come. Henn Põluase, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U270	I recognized myself in the Prime Minister's speech, and I would like to emphasise that I was indeed the one who said that there were only opposition ambassadors in this debate, not one coalition ambassador, and that this is worrying. It really is. And I also stressed in my speech that we need to be united, we need to discuss these problems together, we need to find solutions to them together, because there is no other way. That is exactly what the Prime Minister has just said. But, unfortunately, I have to admit that all the proposals that we have come up with are very arrogant, repulsive. And as the Prime Minister said, we're just waking up on defence issues. It shows anything but consensus and willingness to solve these problems together. There is no way we can agree with this approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U271	The right of reply shall be exercised by an ambassador who has recognised himself or the statements made in his speech. We've got two minutes to recreate. Urmas Reinsalu, line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U272	Aivar Chef mentioned my name. But, Madam Prime Minister, yes, I don't know how to take it. In your call with one soul, there was a proposal to cooperate, which I signed with two hands and referred to myself, but there was also a complaint that I, as Minister of Defence, had not dealt with the current crisis eight years ago. But, you know, I think I did create a certain foundation. The Fatherland created a foundation. Right then, while I was Minister of Defence, Estonia reached a level of 2%. Indeed, we actually called for the troops of the allies to come here in the crisis in Ukraine at the time. And I now want to emphasise this issue. When we say that it doesn't matter whether Patriot or Javelin, there is a difference. This is a very fundamental difference in terms of the real deterrents that we need in the current military crisis. However, I would point out to both of the good previous speakers that we still trust. [Doesn't it matter what weapons systems we have here? There is a very fundamental difference. It's an actual deterrent. The question is that, in addition to the steps taken by the presence of the symbolic allies, we also need the actual capabilities of the military allies here to act as a major military force in the event of a possible military conflict. And now the point is, is there a criticism that anything has been done? We are now talking about this crisis and the decisions taken in this crisis and what we consider sensible further. The point is that the budgetary balance [target] is currently preventing us from making these decisions in such a perilous situation, and I do not agree with this principle at all. Putin doesn't expect in the Kremlin that if we have a budget balance, that he'll set his attack plans according to it. This thinking is not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U273	Leo Kunnas, the line, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U274	Yeah, thanks! That's all I have, Madam Prime Minister, but we are in a situation where we just have to make decisions. Make them! We need resources, separate them, and we'll make it!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U275	Thank you. You can't make a line on a reptile anymore. The negotiations are closed and this item is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U276	We can go to the fourth item on today's agenda. This is also an inquiry: the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Urmas Reinsalu, Priit Sibula, Andres Metsoja, Helir-Valdor Seederi, Mikhail Lotman, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Raivo Tamme, Üllar Saaremäe and Heiki Hepner on 10 January, concerning the facilitation of transit in Belarus. Request No 104. Enquiries representative Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U277	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Although the Estonian government stands for harsh sanctions against the Aljaksandr Lukashenka regime, the transit of Belarusian goods through Estonia increased more than twice in 2021. This public secret also came up on the Financial Times columns on 3 January this year, and subsequently appeared in Postimees. The Financial Times article concludes this way: "The Baltic States should not waste their calculus of political capital and the credibility they have accumulated in Washington for a few hundred million euros, which their companies would earn every year by working towards Belarus. " The representatives of the Estonian Government have justified the growth of transit by claiming that everything is legally correct. At the same time, the Estonian state-owned company for rail transport actively participates in facilitating the transit of Belarus. Now let's see how the situation has evolved. The European Union imposed sanctions on petroleum products in June 2021, but we know from Statistics Estonia that the transport of liquid fuels through Estonia has since grown very strongly. It is hard to believe that the Government of the Republic and the Ministers in the field did not know about this. Instead of taking decisive steps, they pretended to be dead, figuratively speaking, in the hope that the problem would fall under other, more acute questions. Realizing that this is not the way to go, and at least in a tense security situation you should say something, at first, when you scrambled your nose, they made it look like it smells, but legally everything is correct. When the smell of this money finally suffocated the government, the government found so much in itself that it imposed national sanctions on mineral oils from Belarus, which are based on coal, i.e. a group of goods, 2707 which are not subject to sector-specific sanctions imposed by the European Union and which have so far been possible through Estonia. Regrettably, government action on sanctions has been slow and weak. Today we are discussing questions addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure a month ago as to why the Government of the Republic, in the name of the profit of the Estonian state company, has in fact supported the continuation of the sanctioned Lukashenka regime by increasing transit through the Estonian company, and what have been the figures for trade between Belarus and Estonia in the last three years. The Baltic States and the European Union as a whole must act together. It is currently the case that, by imposing sanctions in one country, trade flows are being diverted to another country. Our foreign policy has been very weak. We cannot forget what is happening around Ukraine and that the Belarusian dictator, Mr Lukashenko, is also an active part of this process. Major exercises are taking place in Belarus to practice attacking Ukraine. We must be more united than ever. As a result, there is a further question of preventing transit in cooperation with our allied countries: has there been agreement with Latvia and Lithuania that a group of 2707 goods is subject to national sanctions in both Latvia and Lithuania? And what about the shipment of potassium fertilisers? Indeed, it is a proverb that money does not stink. At this point, however, it may seem that the smell, which in the meantime tended to suffocate, has, figuratively speaking, dissipated. No, it's not starting to dissipate, it's totally there. We must act for our security. So, these three questions. Please, Mr. Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U278	Thank you. I call on the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U279	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, good heirs! You've asked me two questions. First: "Why is the Government of the Republic, in the name of the profit of the Estonian state company, in fact supporting the continuation of the sanctioned Lukashenka regime through the increase of transit through the Estonian state company? " Secondly: "Please provide figures for Belarus-Estonia's trade over the last three years. " The third question came from this remote. I'm sure I'll get there. I will start with the second question, so that the picture is clear on how this transit operation has been. Why even transit to Estonia? In fact, transit services are the ones with which Estonian Railways earns the resources to maintain the infrastructure. If we had a zero transit, the maintenance of the infrastructure should take place with Estonian taxpayers' money. Transit is considerably reduced. The main reason here is, of course, that Russia has an open Port of Ust-Luga. But we have also been in constant competition with the other two Baltic countries, Latvia and Lithuania. Let's see what's happened in the last few years. Indeed, Estonian Railways and Opera have worked hard to transport goods through Estonia and have competed mainly with Latvia and Lithuania. How did this group of goods start to increase to 2707? This goods previously moved through Latvia. In 2020, negotiations were launched to bring the goods here. This goods started to move through Estonia at the end of 2020, and in October the first trains started to come here. As I said, it used to move through Latvia. Sanctions on goods, oil products, are known to have been imposed in mid 2021. In fact, this goods came here earlier, before these sanctions. You rightly said that sanctions were imposed on petroleum products. Group 2707 was not sanctioned. Therefore, it is certainly very important to stress that Estonia has not broken the sanctioning policy in any way; Estonia has acted correctly. When we talk about Estonia's trade with Belarus, it has to be said that we have not had much trade. One of the highlights of the past was about 200 million imports in 2012, the next peak was 400 million imports in 2018, but here, of course, it has to be taken into account that this is the kind of import that is included in transit in Estonia. Indeed, the new highlight, nearly 600 million, was in 2021, and it mainly consisted of a group of 2707 goods, i.e. non-sanctioned goods. You have also rightly pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Estonia has decided to impose sanctions on goods group 2707. It is not known that the other Baltic States would have imposed these sanctions. As far as I know, the owner of the goods is working to transport the goods through Latvia. I therefore consider it important that, if we impose sanctions, these sanctions should be imposed by a minimum of three Baltic States, but ideally they should have been imposed by all the Member States of the European Union, particularly as regards the same group of goods in 2707, because part of the transit that passed through Estonia reached the [other] Member States of the European Union. What its fate has been in these Member States of the European Union is not known to me, whether it remained in that country or went somewhere else. However, it is very important that sanctions should be pan-European, as these goods have moved to [other] Member States of the European Union. This possibility remains, although Estonia has imposed sanctions for its part. Of course, when imposing sanctions, it must also always be taken into account that the impact is mutual, that the effect is both on the country against which it is imposed and on the country that is imposing sanctions. True, since this has been a transit commodity, the impact on the Estonian economy is not so great, but it has this effect on certain sectors. This is about Estonian Railways. Since this transit started to decrease already this year, the estimated [damage] is EUR 800,000 for Estonian Railways, EUR 4.8 million for Operail, EUR 2 million for the Port of Tallinn, and to a certain extent [damage] also for Estonian Loots, because Eesti Loots served the ships with which the goods went from here. Okay. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U280	Thank you very much. We can go to the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U281	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Let's look at the geographic map. You said it went through Latvia first. But we have not had a common border with Belarus at least so far. My question to you is this. The crow doesn't just fly either. When it was achieved in October 2020 that transit came from Latvia [out] and started flowing through Estonia, who was really behind it? The ears of what kind of political power may appear here, or what kind of influential characters?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U282	Thank you. I would point out that earlier, as Latvia and Belarus share a common border, the goods moved from Belarus to Latvia and from Latvia to port. As I said, Estonia and Latvia are competitors here. In 2020, Estonian Railways and Opera were able to offer a better price for transporting this goods, for transit, and this goods started to move through Estonian ports. By the way, when it came to Estonia, it continued to come through Latvia. It didn't come from the air, it came from that way. There are no political ears here; here is just the work done by our companies at the time, both Estonian Railways and Opera, to get this trade turnover to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U283	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U284	Good manager! Dear Minister, First of all, I want to thank you for your pleasant cooperation. One of the reasons why goods came to Estonia from Latvian ports is, on the one hand, the work of Operaili and the Port of Tallinn, which organises the carriage of goods by Estonian Railways. But the other way around, our cooperation, I think, in lowering the water fare. That's why the goods came here. I'm not at all happy that you made such a decision in the government. And I am not satisfied for exactly the same reason that you once pointed out: in fact, this decision should have been a joint decision of the European Union. At least [joint decision] with Latvia and Lithuania. The fact that the government has made such a decision now means that all these trade flows go to the port of Latvia. Am I correctly informed that you didn't support it very much in the government, but the Reform Party broke you down?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U285	Thank you. First of all, I would say that I really called Estonian Railways and Operail, but when such offers are made for the transit of goods to Estonia, the whole sector is actually working together. There is also a Transit Committee in Estonia, which regularly meets and tries to find solutions to bring goods, transit goods to Estonia, so that both railways and ports can work, and thus the whole sector. As far as this government meeting is concerned, yes, I pointed out there the dangers that this decision poses, i.e. the direct economic effects on Estonia, and also that, preferably, such a decision should have been taken jointly. Estonia alone will not be able to shut down the handling of this commodity in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U286	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U287	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! On 2 December 2021, the fifth European Union sanctions package against Belarus was adopted in relation to the continued violation of human rights and the exploitation of migrants. But despite the fact that such packages have been adopted, Bolt, the Estonian company is currently very busy operating on the territory of Belarus. It seems that these sanctions, as they are not covered, should, of course, be included. Here's my question. Bolt's owners have, of course, provided considerable financial support to the Reform Party. Has Bolt also given support to the Centre Party because your ministry will not interfere in this operation if sanctions are not observed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U288	Thank you. Well, this case, too, with this group of goods 2707 shows that sanctions must be imposed very precisely and clearly [to be clear] on which goods the sanction applies. Also, as I said, they should preferably be established in the European Union as a whole. The imposition of sanctions is preceded by long work. The mutual effects, the impact on the country against which sanctions are imposed and the impact on the countries that impose sanctions will be assessed. This will be the subject of a decision on sanctions, with a consensual decision. I haven't been in the middle of these negotiations. In the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs deals with sanctions policy. What have been the negotiations between countries as to why, for some groups of goods, agreement has been reached that sanctions will be imposed, why, for some, no transnational agreement has been reached that these sanctions will be applied? It's very difficult for me to answer you. Has Bolt and the sanctions against Bolt's activities in Belarus been at issue? I can't answer you. It is likely that people who have been more involved in these negotiations should be asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U289	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U290	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. We are competitors with Latvia in many areas, with the economy in mind. Transit is one of these areas, and we can say that in a sense here, too, the rule of connected vessels applies. But we have a security room in common, we have security interests in common. When the Estonian government discussed this issue and reached a decision, were there prior political consultations and cooperation with Latvians? You said here that it would have been reasonable for a common decision to be reached at European Union level. Of course, but it's an even bigger piece. Collaborate with the Latvians in order to make similar political decisions and choices, which also concern sanctions for transit in Belarus, this would have been equal treatment and treatment for this region and solved some of its mutual problems. Did you have negotiations, contacts with colleagues from Latvia at political level or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U291	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U292	Thank you. There have been contacts with Latvia, but Latvia has not taken any position on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U293	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U294	Thank you, Mr Minister, for your answers. My question is that there is a technical authority in your jurisdiction, which, as a market regulator, also supervises television channels, the providers of television packages, as well as the translation of these television channels into Estonia, which are impertinently making war propaganda now, encouraging false narratives and tensions. What has your guidance been to the Technical Surveillance Authority? Do you consider this activity to be acceptable or should the Technical Surveillance Authority, as a market regulator, block this activity and, if so, how?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U295	Thank you. No, in this respect, I have not provided any guidance to the Technical Surveillance Authority. I think this is a much longer discussion of how to act in this situation. On the one hand, yes, we can prohibit, but as we know, the forbidden fruit is always sweet. We can achieve the opposite effect by denying it. I am a person at the time when Estonia was trying to slow down the viewing of Finnish television. Even the jammers were set up in Tallinn so that we would not see Finnish television for God's sake. It didn't work. It didn't work. On the contrary, even more called for television to be watched, and it was intrigued to see why it would be banned. So I think there's a very deep place to consider how to act in this situation. Do you want to go forbid it? Should these services be subject to a charge, separately taxed? I think that the best grass that Estonia can offer is to provide the best possible information, the best possible [choice] for those who watch Russia's channels. [ETV+] has done a commendable job and I think this is the best solution: to offer the best possible television.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U296	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U297	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, You reiterated what was said at the government meeting that you were not very enthusiastic about imposing these sanctions. In this sense, your opinion must be shared so that it is better for the Baltic States to be able to take these steps together, and it would be even better if the whole of the European Union could act together. There is no doubt about that. But what did the Minister of Foreign Affairs say to you at the government hearing? What did he say, did he feel a little bit about his role in achieving this unity? Did you have a discussion with the Minister of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U298	Thank you. We also discussed this with the Foreign Minister before the government meeting. Of course, the Minister of Foreign Affairs knows his role in this; of course, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will bring these messages both on the imposition of sanctions on different groups of goods in the European Union and on the fact that the three Baltic States will be united. Of course, the Foreign Minister is doing this job. I rather believe that it may be easier to agree between the three Baltic States. At European Union level, there is a huge number of different interests and agreement on which groups of goods are subject to sanctions, which are not, which are considerably more complicated. All the more so because the three Baltic States feel today's security situation, I think, much [sharply] than so many other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U299	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. We can open negotiations. First Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U300	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Government is difficult, the interests of different interest groups must be balanced and taken into account. In order to prevent problems, however, clarification and prudent decisions are needed. I support a value-based foreign policy. It is important that the sanctions imposed by the European Union, including Estonia, against the Lukashenka regime and its neighbours are strict and fair. At the same time, we must not unexpectedly throw "under the bus" into Estonian entrepreneurs. There's nothing worse in the business environment than instability. If this uncertainty is caused by the failure of the government to anticipate the effects of sanctions and the way in which they are implemented, responsibility must be borne by the government, not by economic operators. It is clear that earning income through transit in Belarus is a violation of the sense of justice of many people in today's geopolitical and security situation. For a reason! However, the country cannot be run on the basis of newspaper articles. If the Estonian Government was unable to take all the circumstances into account when imposing sanctions, then they also have a clear responsibility to Estonian companies, who, due to the decision made overnight, have to substantially restructure their business activities and lose their planned income. There has been a situation where Estonian companies and the economy are suffering damage, as Belarus directs trade flows to Latvian ports instead of Estonian ports. Finally, both Belarus and Latvia will benefit from this. The government wanted to save its face, but the Estonian entrepreneurs and the economy as a whole suffer. The direct scale of this loss is measurable in tens of millions of euros and hundreds of jobs. Indirect impacts are even greater. The biggest losers are Estonian Railways, Operail and the Port of Tallinn. At the same time, the desired effect on the Belarusian regime was not achieved. What should the government have done differently? In particular, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs should have started rapid negotiations on the Belarusian sanctions package in the European Union as a whole, at least with our closest neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania. At the same time, there should have been a dialogue with Estonian entrepreneurs and some compensation or reconciliation should have been offered. We have worked in the Riigikogu to ensure that the Estonian transit sector becomes competitive. Thanks to the competitive waterway charges established by the Riigikogu and the good cooperation between Estonian companies, the port and the railway terminal, the consignors are motivated to channel their trade flows through Estonian ports. As a result of this, [mobile] international maritime transport has grown through Estonian ports in recent years, which has contributed to the growth of the Estonian economy. Today, however, there is a situation where trade flows move from Estonian ports to Latvian ports because of a quick decision. Belarus, against whom sanctions were intended, is smiling at this. To sum it up. If the government cannot see the whole picture and explain its decisions, the government will be responsible for it. Such campaign decisions, without dialogue, are detrimental to Estonian companies. It is good [legal] practice that operators are informed in advance of changes for at least six months. Now they only have three weeks. No one is arguing about the need to continue to press Belarus, but to do so we need to look for broad-based international support, not to isolate our country's businesses from their neighbours. The value-based foreign policy stands in solidarity both for democracy in Belarus and for Estonian companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U301	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U302	Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U303	Three minutes extra time, too. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U304	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Economic Affairs! We have a government with a cold stomach. There's nothing to say. Information on massive transit from Belarus was already known last year. On 3 January, the Financial Times drew attention to this, where there was a disgraceful article calling on the Baltic States to put an end to this [activity]. And then there was silence. Then we made an inquiry into what we're dealing with here. On this point, the Belarusian political prisoners' support association made a protesting statement, and then, under such pressure, the government, which had been in the shadow of the vague and splintering rhetoric of spokespersons for months, decided to do something. It is a good thing that this has been done, but it is undoubtedly a sign of inability to do so with such a delay. In fact, I have the answer to whether our Prime Minister clearly proposed it at the meeting of the Baltic Prime Ministers, and what were Latvia and Lithuania's responses to this point, so that it would have been reasonable to act together, could not. It is still unclear and requires further investigation. There is, however, another, let us say, a barrier policy element concerning the prevention of war propaganda, which Mr Juske drew attention to in an earlier political debate with a question that is apt to be addressed. Here the levers [in the hands of the Minister of Economic Affairs], or political responsibility, rests with the Minister of Economic Affairs, whose jurisdiction as market regulator is the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. We are not talking about harassment of freedom of expression at the moment; we are not talking about restricting freedom of expression at the moment. We are talking about the fact that if we have a military crisis and a part of our people are trying to keep an hostile, aggressive regime outside the military propaganda that threatens us, in a situation where we state that the military threat is directly ambushing all the countries of the eastern wing of NATO, including Estonia, it is certainly not comparable to the fact that the Estonian people watched Finnish television during Brezhnev. They are not comparable. Obstacle, a reasonable obstacle, whether it is the separation, the payment or the temporary interruption of translation from the packages, as Latvia and Lithuania have done, has nothing to do with freedom of the press or freedom of expression in itself, but it is elementary in defending its country in a situation where the opponent invades by using all the tools at its disposal, including the tools of the information war. To the question of whether Latvia and Lithuania have done something Immantically wrong or whether Ukraine has done something wrong, if it has prevented such a war propaganda, the answer is, of course, no. Moreover, I would point out that this is also a legal issue. We are once again coming to the policy of sanctions. Russia Today Latvia has gone beyond the European Union's policy of personal sanctions in relation to annexation of Crimea to Mr Kisselev, who is a person acting or a person associated with the Russian Today Corporation, and, in order to apply, to impose sanctions on the European Union, has also imposed sanctions against Russia Today. Such sluggishness and lack of treatment are currently on the government's side. I agree that this issue needs to be discussed from a number of facets, but a lack of sluggishness and the only hope that we must develop ETV+ against this overwhelming military propaganda... Yes, I welcome with two hands all the intentions to increase the visibility of ETV+ and the money has been allocated, but it is obvious that we are talking about different scales for these programmes. After all, one is the market for television channels with a worldwide reach of over 100 million countries. It is very difficult to balance in such a way that you simply imagine that it is a question of viewer numbers or viewer choice in the logic of attractiveness. We are currently in a critical security situation, and this also requires us to make rapid decisions in the sense of our own security situation. It is, in fact, also a value decision whether we are neutral in the situation in which [a] war propaganda occurs, inciting violence, which, by the way, I recall, is punishable by the Estonian Penal Code. The Estonian Penal Code contains a section that provides for prison sentences for war propaganda. When we say that if it is cultivated in the form of a state, through the machination of a hostile state to us, through these media publications, with the aim of making people susceptible to this false narrative, but the country has no duty of due diligence in the name of its statehood, for the values we stand for, among other things, for the freedom of the Ukrainian people and of the state, I sense that it is the same side-slip philosophy as Belarus's sanctions. We know how the decisions of this government can be achieved. It is as if coins from the piggy bank should be shaken out of these decisions, just as we have achieved with pressure, with public statements from this Parliament's chair that these steps were taken on the Belarus issue. They could also have been taken in cooperation with Latvia and Lithuania, but whatever it is that we offered it or they did not accept it. There is no doubt that this question of the translation of war propaganda must also be answered here. What is the clear policy of the government? I would like to point out that, for some reason, the market regulator, in the form of a technical supervision agency, is precisely within your jurisdiction, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs. So these problems are extremely acute, extremely serious and undoubtedly reflect our value system: who we are, what we believe and how much we are worth in terms of whether we dare to defend our freedom and the freedom of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U305	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U306	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I totally agree with you. The sanctions need to be worked together, with their good allies in the European Union as a whole, as well as with our good neighbours, the Baltic States, Latvia and Lithuania. In my speech, I will focus on this cooperation. It is regrettable that we have been relatively incompetent here. I agree that the Minister for Economic Affairs cannot do the work of either the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister. He can draw attention to this [the subject]. Perhaps it would be better if the Minister of Foreign Affairs was sitting here now. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister probably no longer listens to us, even though he was here before. But really, as is the case with these sanctions on channels, I mean the translation of television channels, where Latvia and Lithuania have taken certain steps, and I think they are looking at us, that the interesting thing that Estonians are thinking about is that we have now, even by banning the 2707 transit of this group of goods and imposing sanctions, that the Latvians are the ones who are now taking the blood money and reading it. It's actually a real shame that it's happened this way. The situation is currently extremely difficult in our region. We need to be stronger and more united. More than that, we should have activity in the foreign policy direction and good cooperation with our neighbours. I think that the policy of sanctions will be effective if we work together both in the transit of goods, in the imposition of sanctions and in the implementation of steps against television channels that encourage military propaganda and promote violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U307	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like to make a statement? No, I don't. We can consider this question to be answered and the item closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U308	We will proceed with today's fifth item on the agenda: the inquiry submitted on 25 January by Riigikogu members Jaak Juske, Eduard Odints and Riina Sikkut regarding the closure of magymnasiums and primary schools. Inquiry No 111. As the representative of the heirs, I invite Jaak Juske to the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U309	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Riigikogu! We've been talking about national defence for a very long time here today. But we can buy the best tanks in the world, the best cannons and guns, but all of this will be of very little use if our own society is torn apart as regional differences deepen when life disappears from the ground when the life force of rural areas is lost. In order to have life in every corner of Estonia, so that young families come and stay in the country, it is undoubtedly important that they have a job in their home country. But it is just as important that they be able to give their children a good basic education and, if possible, upper secondary school education as close to home as possible. The school network is a vital part of our balanced regional development, maintaining and developing the vitality of rural areas. I must admit that I recently read the news that we have reached a situation in 30 years of independent Estonia, a new time in Estonia, where our own government of the Republic of Estonia will pay local governments to close the remaining upper secondary school levels in rural areas. We live in the only country in Estonia, the only country in the world whose mission is to preserve the Estonian language, culture and people through the ages. It is not the responsibility of any other country. Education, good education, close to home education play a crucial role in achieving this goal. In addition to the closure of upper secondary schools, our approved education strategy also foresees that the government wants to close the remaining basic schools close to home. Indeed, the principle of close - to - home basic school has been abandoned. These are very bad developments that damage the vitality of Estonia as a whole. We wondered at length whether this inquiry would suddenly be submitted to the Minister of Education and Research. But as far as he knows, he represents a party that relatively cares about whether or not life on earth is a matter of life, who conducts a policy the message of which is that only the strong must survive. That is how we thought that we would put forward an inquiry to the Minister of State Administration, the Honorable Jaak Aab, on this important issue concerning the cuts in the school network, to my good name, because he must stand by the government to ensure a uniform regional development so that the vitality of rural areas can be guaranteed. Based on these very negative developments for Estonia as a whole, we have put four questions to the honourable minister in total. We want to know whether, before these cuts in the school network, his administration has analysed the impact of these decisions on regional development and balance. We also want to know that, since it is very many magymnasiums, small well-educated rural schools, that the cultural characteristics of the region have also been preserved through the ages, whether this impact has been analysed. And also whether the support of municipalities that do not respond to this pressure, who are not prepared to receive this money, who want to develop their school network, to maintain upper secondary school levels in the country, for example, in our border regions, is crucial, the government is now finishing and starting to find other ways to die out of these schools, upper secondary schools and primary schools. Finally, we want to know Mr Abi's personal assessment of the cuts in the education budget. Honourable Minister, the floor is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U310	Very kind. I call upon Jaak Aabi, Minister of State Administration, to respond. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U311	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Have a nice Valentine's Day for everyone on this side and on that side of the screen, I get it! How to say, an inquiry is certainly appropriate and topical. I will certainly admit that, and I am ready to talk about regional policy and regional development as much as you want and ask me. I certainly don't care what's going on in those areas. I think it was 2017, when I first went to the office of the Minister of Public Administration. This is what I have been working for, and these results I can read here, something has been achieved if we look at statistics, even if we look at statistics. But now to the specific questions that the heirs have asked me. First of all, has the government discussed any topic of the school network lately, or the topic of the closure of rural schools, or has there been such a plan anywhere? I'm sure the government hasn't discussed it. The educational development plan was also here for the introduction. As stated everywhere in recent education development strategies, the organization of the school network, which means perhaps opening up new schools in some places, in some places unfortunately closing down some schools, is always a part of life. It's been dealt with, I think, by all governments since regaining independence. There are objective and subjective reasons why this is the case. There has also been a debate about the responsibility for school education: whether and to what extent it is the responsibility of the state and the extent to which the local government is responsible. Certainly, the strength of the Estonian school network and the uniform quality of rural areas in the provision of upper secondary school education have been a constant debate. We also know that the state started building state secondary schools in county centres and now they are present in most county centres. Even in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, it is written that there must be one state secondary school in every county. If there have been these debates as to whether upper secondary school education should be in the future only in the state or only in the local government [to be responsible], then at least during the time of the governments where I have also been a member of the government office, no decision has been made in any direction. The decisions that had been taken in the past and the establishment of state secondary schools have been a shared responsibility. We know that funding is also a shared responsibility in education: both state funding and local authorities finance. There'll be private schools and then some public schools. This situation has been more or less the same. Life makes its own adjustments. When it comes to a specific grant or measure, it is determined by the decree of the Minister of Education, that grant. This point 1 shall begin by allocating one-off additional support for the organisation of the school network to the local authorities that requested it. Nobody has ordered or forced any municipality to accept this support or to start closing schools. Yeah, it sounded something like that in the public and in the news. But I assure you, the government has not made such plans. Well, I do know some local governments who are considering these decisions. Rather, these are areas where very few students remain in upper secondary school. It has been said here that if the upper secondary school section with fewer than 100 students is closed somewhere, you will receive support, but you know that the number of students in the upper secondary school section is very, very low in some parts. Municipalities with several upper secondary schools with several schools of upper secondary school, I know, have had plans to combine these upper secondary schools so that at least the upper secondary school would remain in place and not everyone would disappear. This grant is not very large, we are talking about tens of thousands of euros in the case of schools, if it helps to make plans or engage in any kind of activity, if this decision has been long prepared and negotiated with communities. I do not know of any cases where the municipality would very easily have closed schools or schools in recent years. So there is certainly no coercion, no such decision has been made by the government. The support provided by the Minister of Education by his decision, by a decree, supports schools who voluntarily wish to do so or local authorities who wish to do so. I cannot say this, this support is open and the municipalities themselves decide whether or not to take it. There's definitely no coercion here. So, second question: "Many small magymnasiums and primary schools play an important role in promoting local culture. An example of this is the Värska Gymnasium in Setomaa municipality. What effect do you think a closure of some school grades would have on the preservation of a distinctive culture there? How does pressure from the state to close a local school affect the trust of the border community in the government? " As far as I know, the rural municipality of Setomaa also responded to public inquiries as to whether they intend to do anything because they also have fewer than 100 [student] upper secondary schools. The municipality of Setomaa replied that they were not going to close this school, certainly not in the near future, and therefore they would not accept this support either. So once again, it would be understandable for the public, the local authorities, the school leaders: the government has not prepared any such programme, the pressure programme, nor will it. These conclusions were also drawn when last year the country's budget strategy was negotiated, where the regional coefficient of basic schools was also proposed by the Ministry of Education and Research as an initial proposal. Personally, I opposed it and, fortunately, when the budget was drawn up, it was also abandoned. So this regional coefficient was not reduced in primary schools. If we're watching right now, these little magymnasiums will be supported. Where, simply because of the small number of students, additional support is needed, it is EUR 450000, which is on the way by the government. So there has still been no change in the financing principles. In general, negotiations are conducted in such a way that everything that concerns the local government is negotiated with cities and municipalities representing the interests of local governments. This process is substantive, it takes place in different working groups, including the Education Working Party. I think that the fact that these coefficients were not reduced was also one of the results of these negotiations last summer when the municipalities clearly said that this was not the right decision. If something is to be changed in this financing model, it must first be negotiated with the Union of Cities and Municipalities. Surely this decision cannot be made easily. "Does the government intend to reduce support for those under 100 upper secondary schools with under 100 students and for primary schools with fewer than 30 students, which the local government does not decide to close? " Such plans have not been discussed in government. There was a proposal from the Ministry of Education and Research last year, it was withdrawn. With regard to the next budgetary process, it will be negotiated with the Union of Cities and Municipalities, and I do not know whether the Ministry of Education and Research intends to make any further proposals. There is certainly one topic that should rather be the Ministry of Education and Research of such, let us say then, under attention. It is that, when the administrative reform took place, accession treaties were signed for four years and practically expired with new local elections. I have told you before that all the institutions and schools that are not closed are recorded there. Somewhere along the way, the problem has arisen that when it is said that, for example, whatever, five primary schools or six primary schools in this municipality, because the number of people has decreased, the number of students has decreased, they all quietly tick somewhere down there. Here, it is important for the municipality to look clearly at it so that this near-home school can be maintained either four-class, six-class, of course nine-class, but this first step is as close as possible to [home]. Unfortunately, there aren't enough students everywhere. Both upper secondary and primary school have this problem. But councils do their development plans, local government development plans, where they also analyse the future. There are also places where the number of children is increasing, and not only in Tallinn and Harjumaa, but also in other areas. So you have to weigh it exactly, not start shutting down schools just in case. Municipalities, I dare say, no such decision is made very easily. If the schoolkeeper, the owner of the school, is a local government, these decisions will be made by him. Of course, funding is important, and how funding formulas are put in place can have an impact. So it's still a matter of keeping the school close to home. If there are proposals to change anything about this funding, it must be negotiated with local authorities. "What is your personal assessment of the impact of a significant tightening of the school network on the choice of residence for young families in rural areas, its impact on the business environment, social cohesion and vitality of smaller municipalities? " As I said, local authorities, their councils, still decide. This certainly relates to all other issues; the school is not separate from the whole life that takes place in the regions, local governments. After all, we can mention all the problems that really exist in the development of the regions. This is certainly an ageing population in these regions. If we have mentioned here before that we have also tried to target the development of Ida-Virumaa and the development of south-eastern Estonia, which were, let's say, more behind the Estonian average, the latest data and statistics show that Tallinn, Harjumaa, Tartu city area, maybe a little bit Pärnu, are very clearly drawing out. The rest of the regions have statistical indicators more or less higher than Susu, lower than Susu. The good news is that the regional development action plan, which was also approved in the government office, and which we are now filling with figures along with the budget, the RES and European Union money, has shown that this gap between developed and less developed regions has not increased in recent years. Really, this salmon hasn't gotten any bigger. I can't tell you all the reasons. It is true that we have paid more attention, however, to the development of the regions with the latest governments. I have always said that this decision at the end of the administrative reform, too, when the administrative reform, as was done and raised the revenue base of the municipalities, was, in fact, one of the most important decisions in the area of regional policy in order for all municipalities to have sufficient resources to shape local life. That is where this issue of regional development comes from. Definitely special measures and programmes. More and more of all the public funding programmes, measures, including those coming from the European Union, I can mention here, even the last mile that is being prepared, are now being made on the basis of a local priority rather than where it is more convenient. CO2 measures for local authorities, regional prioritisation, own contributions are smaller in those regions that are not so advanced. Financial instruments are also offered for the guarantee of housing loans from KredEx or now from a new institution called the EIS, as far as I know. All such measures, including the reconstruction of apartment buildings, where once again land areas have been prioritised, all of them contribute to ensuring that at least the degression of these areas does not go further, but remains an opportunity for development. Whether life in the countryside is preserved is just as important a school, a dust-free road, the internet and, recently, more and more housing, which we have dealt seriously with in the framework of various pilot projects or also programmes, grants and measures. So this is all one whole. My personal assessment is that a school close to home must be preserved. It is often loved to say that education must have quality and the higher the school, the better the quality. Praxis carried out a study which showed that there was no real difference between the education received in secondary schools in local governments and in state secondary schools. It came out clearly. Another thing: what good is this quality if [the school] stays so far that the child cannot access that quality. That's my brief assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U312	Thank you. Now we can ask questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U313	Good manager! Dear Minister, When it comes to education and upper secondary school education, I think one important thing is forgotten. With state secondary schools, we have almost completed state secondary schools in every county. If you look around at smaller upper secondary schools, then really, if it is five kilometers away and there are few children, you will be able to transport and solve everything quickly. What if it's a little further? Has it been discussed in the government that state secondary schools could have branches? Clearly, the municipality counts money. The state upper secondary school is much cheaper to support than its municipal secondary schools. I'll look at Jõgevamaa, for example. There is a state gymnasium in the river, but Avinurme and Mustvee are too far away for children to travel every day between Jõgeva and Mustvee or Avinurme. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But at the same time as a branch, it would be quite understandable, and on certain days you can walk...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U314	Time, Aivar!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U315	What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U316	Yeah, it's a place where I still look at the county government. They are schoolmasters and the development plans or development strategies of the county are also given to prepare local governments. It used to be that the county government, as an extension of the state's arm, was the holder of the pen, he had to negotiate with the municipalities, of course, but eventually it was more like this central view. Local authorities could now make these proposals. This branch idea I have heard before, is it not perhaps where the local government and the state could cooperate in any way? I think, as I said here, that, first of all, with regard to the schools that the municipalities are holding now, it is the decision of the municipality whether or not it wishes to do so. There has also been such a suggestion from the Ministry of Education and Research, for example, that, in some regions, let us say, in terms of strengthening such schools, the state should not take over any basic school. But once again, it is up to the local government to decide whether it wants to do so, whether it wants to do so in an administrative contract or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U317	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U318	Good manager! Good waitress! This whole thing goes for what is known as market failure regions. A large part of Estonia is a region of wolves and foxes and market failure. Post offices or what they're called, they're meant to be pulled together, they used to be called "manned," but now there are humanised points, one in every county. I'm not even going to talk about the broadband, this report will soon come out, a bullet in the head, you might say. But now: 144 educational establishments, 100 of them are at upper secondary school level with fewer than 100 people, and 100 of them with fewer than 30 [people] are in primary schools. How much money can it take for the government to spend so that it can straighten them out? Of course, if the local authorities approve.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U319	As I said, the government has not discussed such a plan. This support, which we are talking about, is the decision of the Minister of Education, in his area of administration, to support those municipalities who, somehow, wish to organise the school network. The final decision is in the hands of the municipality. No other kind of decision has been taken by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U320	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U321	Thank you, Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Minister, I would first like to thank you for these answers. To be honest, I was surprised to hear your answers. You claimed that this support for the death of magymnasiums was not discussed by the government. It's not a government development plan, it's not a government decision. At the same time, the Minister of Education will pay out these grants to local governments. I would ask, Mr Aab, for your personal clear position on whether you consider this support right, whether you support it, is this the right way. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U322	Thank you for your question. As I said, in this way too, it is strictly voluntary whether the municipality wants to take this support. I'm telling you, I also know the local governments who keep such plans. Not because of a good life, but because life has taken so far that if there are three secondary school grades in the field, it is simply not possible at one point. There are so few students. Then it's more like maybe it really makes sense to focus, put it in upper secondary school somewhere together, and it's stronger. If that is the case, I have nothing against it. But I certainly do not agree with it as a pressure, that now we are giving money to shut it down. At the Ministry of Education and Science, I know these thoughts have moved on before, they've been talking about a state progymnasium that I've fought back all these years. I don't think it's right. Local government could still be a provider of basic education. In certain exceptional cases, if the local authority agrees to agree on what the HTM is talking about for certain regions, this may happen, but it is strictly an agreement with the local government. So I don't support any pressure or pressure. It's not like it goes to local governments overnight. They are making development plans and constantly updating them, and the new councils are reviewing them again. The school network is certainly one of the key issues. No decisions are made because, well, now there is no support offered, which is not very large, as I said, that is why we shut down, I do not believe that any municipality does.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U323	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U324	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. You say there is no coercion, but the Ministry of Education and Research has, in my opinion, published analyses for two years in Teachers' Paper and explained why the third degree of school must be closed in small primary schools. Similarly, last year we heard the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, express the opinion that nearly one hundred primary schools with fewer than 30 pupils in their third grade, for example 85 students in a strong country school, should shut down the third grade. There have been quite a number of such opinions on the part of this government, and it certainly has a regional impact. My question is this: have you done what the government or your ministry has done in particular to analyse the closure or cuts of schools, what impact could that have?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U325	Thank you for your question. The simple answer is that since no such plans have been discussed in the government, these analyses have not been carried out either. The Ministry of Education and Research will certainly carry out and watch in its field. One reason is probably the quality of education that must be provided, and this must always be done under limited resources, which is also known. But such a plan that I would have to carry out such an analysis, I did not need to do so. I also say that there is a certain status quo in the funding of education, in the running of schools. These discussions have been held in various coalitions about what happens next. It has also been discussed whether the upper secondary school level in rural areas should not be returned to municipalities, and this proposal has also been on the table. It's stuck with us being in the status quo. We certainly need to ensure that the quality of education is good and to support it rather than try to close schools with some artificial technique where the schoolmaster, or local government, does not want to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U326	Thank you. We're going to Viljandi. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U327	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of State Administration, First, the ATM, post office, village shop, pharmacy and family doctor disappeared. If school, even middle school, is going to disappear, there are no new people coming there, rather today, who do not want to remain in such a position that it is not certain that in a few years' time the child will be able to start school there. I certainly want very much to congratulate Minister Taavi Asa, who, despite the initial messages and the planned cuts in free public transport, found solutions and, at least this year, the public transport centres will not have to be cut. Public transport is certainly extremely important both in terms of getting into and getting out of the city, and the transport of children is also important. Would it not be wise to think of a positive idea to support these authorities when we see that there are certain areas where there should be more people, which is also a security issue? Rather support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U328	Thank you for your question. In fact, there is a regional coefficient in both upper secondary and primary school education, namely that these smaller schools receive more money with a coefficient per head than the larger schools. So it exists. I'm sure I'm gonna stand up for it not to be cut. So the plans that have been made are different. But once again, as far as this list is concerned, Helmen, what you said here, post offices and so on, there are two sides. There's talk of these service halls, the PBA, and I know it creates a lot of, uh, how to say, emotion in these areas. I guess there's got to be an objective side to look at. When speaking of certain places, post offices or post offices, this [service] may sometimes become more accessible than in the case of this physical post office. I do not know exactly all the plans that the Estonian Post is planning. There was a rumor that they'd shut everything down. Well, that's not really the case. Rather, the plan is to make the [service] more accessible and to take these mail points or service points to libraries, for example, which are open all the time. There really are a couple of people going to the post office in the next few hours that he's supposed to be open. We must always consider the demand that exists in this region. We're all used to delivery machines. Life travels to various channels other than this physical post office. But now I was talking maybe too much about post offices. It's the same with these service halls. We have developed e-services and more and more people are consuming e-services, not going to the state to receive this service in physical contact. Was it the right time? As far as I know, the Ministry of the Interior and the PBA have kept these plans before. If it can be seen that there is not such a high demand on the customer service side, there is at least a reason to shorten these [unlocking] times. But symbolically, it's not good. So I, too, in all these debates, have rather always called for more detailed work on these plans, precisely to analyse how this result is, whether and how it affects local life, access to services and so on. With regard to state services, you know that one such program is a program of state houses where we do these tailor-made solutions in every county centre. There's a house coming in some places, there's two houses coming in some places. Well, I guess it's been taken at the beginning as a real estate optimization task that, since these poor rooms can't all be fixed all the time and there's no point in investing there, we're going to take care of one or two houses and we're going to bring these institutions together. One objective has been that jobs there would no longer decline, since the trend was such that jobs from counties were transferred to regional centres. That was when the county governments were ticking down. We have put the border on this, and in these state buildings, more jobs will come with the same universal recruitment, where this office is no longer important for a person to work when he comes to a state-paid job. He can do this work in Põlva, Võru, Pärnu, even if this institution or ministry is in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U329	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U330	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I guess these plagues start with demography, emigration, jobs. There's the problem. The great Muuga Manor School was shut down in one of the most beautiful manor houses because only one child would have gone to the first class. Could no longer keep [the school] because there was one child. The problem is that 6,000 Estonian children are in Finland. Somewhere these schools go down because it's six schoolloads of kids, a big school full of kids. It's more of a side-by-side question. You yourself mentioned something about young people and housing. Do you have any information on the development of the MES measure that helps young families to get housing? Has this thing progressed? It's a demographic measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U331	Thank you for your question. As I said, in the past, just during the previous economic crisis, it was that jobs were lost in rural areas in particular, that was the main reason why very many people went, mostly from rural areas, Finland or some other country to work. There is nothing to do, 50,000 Estonians are still in the Finnish population register. There they are getting fewer and fewer, and the tendency of recent years is that people would rather come back from Finland than go there. This is what we must support with various measures. Local authorities are making efforts and the state is also taking action. This measure of the MES is aimed at two regions: South East Estonia and Ida-Virumaa, as far as I know. It even provides public loans for housing. KredEx is there for all regions outside Tallinn, Harjumaa and the Tartu city area. This measure should open immediately. Or EIS, it's not KredEx anymore, sorry, I'm always wrong. In this case, up to 80% of bank loans, mortgage loans and state guarantees are provided. That, too, should help. In the South-East Estonia programme, we gave the kind of housing allowance to specialists for a certain amount. The municipality itself decided whether it was intended solely for specialists in local governments or, more generally, for other jobs as well as for private enterprises. We tested it out, it worked good. I do not think that this measure of the MES in two regions, a regionally targeted pilot [as a project], does not mean that it cannot extend across Estonia in cooperation with this EIS measure, which provides, like the state, a guarantee for housing loans, certainly favours the trend that has arisen. Whatever the cause, whether it's the corona crisis or the urban villains are really looking more at the countryside, but it can be seen. We've compared the movement to Harjumaa and out of Harjumaa. In recent years there has been a clear increase in the tendency for more people to leave Harjumaa than before. So, with everything else, both the design of the local government's living environment and the national measures, we should rather support this trend. This is where we get to schools and kindergartens. Indeed, in some areas this demand is increasing. In fact, you have to be careful there, you can't make such hasty decisions. What matters is how much we can invest. It's been done, but it's always not enough. At least now, too, this carbon trade money, which is quite well received and more than half of it goes to education, has recently been able to be placed by the local government in kindergartens and schools, not only for reconstruction, but also to build new ones, with the condition that some old volume is taken down. It can also make schools that are necessary in this area with some perspective, functional. We have reached the time when schools built during Soviet times, just as ideally apartment buildings in rural areas, could be reconstructed or new buildings could be built.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U332	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! You are saying that bonus money is not a coercion, but let us be honest with some local governments, small ones with small schools, little money and few people, it may be a coercive measure to compensate for the lack of people and children, the lack of income tax money, with the small amount of money the state gives. At the same time, you also say that you personally are very much in favour of education as close to home and child as possible, and you said that the quality of state secondary schools and their magymnasiums does not differ. Have you not thought of talking to Mr Kersna, as former Minister for Education, to ensure that this money does not become a closure bonus, but a bonus for the development of schools, so that this circle moves to the other side? If we invest additional money in the learning environment, in teachers' salaries, in the living conditions of teachers, good quality education opportunities will come, more children will come, more taxpayers will come, and this circle will turn in the opposite direction if we direct it now. Didn't you have that kind of idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U334	Thank you for your question. I must remind you, time and again, that the income base of local governments, total revenues, has risen by 50% over the last five years, despite the time of crisis. So these municipalities, apart from the administrative reform, are not so poor that, after 20000 [euro], they should go to school to close. That's my assessment. They won't. If, in the long term, the idea has been reached somewhere that there is a need to organize this school network, then the principles, as municipalities are trying to ensure that the first school must be as close as possible, the next step may be a little further and the secondary schools may be a little further. That's how he's established, and that's how it's normal. I do not think that the support provided by the Minister of Education's decree constitutes any coercion for the municipalities. I've been talking to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U335	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U336	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. You said nicely, the government hasn't discussed it. I quote: "The Ministry of Education and Research is carrying out and watching in its field. " Each ministry carries out its own work and looks at it. Then the schools will be open at one place and the internet will go to another place and the garbage cans and toilets will be in the third place. Shouldn't the Minister of State Administration take care that the solution as a whole is reasonable, even if each ministry itself delivers and looks at it? Eduard Odines asked a very good question. Actually, it's the thought pattern down there. Wednesday, the day after tomorrow, we will discuss the draft structural instruments in this Chamber. All have the same rules, exceptions are granted to rural areas in justified cases, such as lower self-financing rates or a separate application round. Should it not be that the standard is that there is a lower own contribution rate and a separate call for proposals, and this is not done in justified cases? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It's the same with schools. This support could encourage the survival of schools in rural areas rather than their closure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U337	Yeah, we're gonna talk about general issues again. Thank you for your question. In preparing the same regional development action plan, we also analysed how the various programmes and grants of the state have reached Tallinn, Harjumaa and elsewhere. Over the last five years, Tallinn, Harjumaa and the Tartu city region have received less than 50% of the average grants from the state's programmes, measures and European Union funds. So a clear distinction has been made before. Where do I want to go with the regional development agenda? Regional priority is given to all sectoral measures and programmes. Perhaps there is less ownership, whether there are regional portfolios, as there are already many measures and, as far as I know, they are being shaped by ministries, and this final result will be on this agenda. I hope and have worked to this end that it is as large as possible, i.e. as many measures as possible have been targeted as favourable conditions in other regions that have not reached as high a level in their development as Tallinn, Harjumaa and the city of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U338	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U339	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, However, as a preliminary point, I would like to settle one fact. The state budget has grown at half the rate of the local governments. I usually have to remind my benchmate Jürgen Ligi here that the municipal budget has grown much slower than the state budget. But I'm asking you about the education network for children with special needs. Has there been any discussion about this in the government? We know that it has been handed over to some municipalities. There are also [municipal governments] with public schools. Where there are state schools, we see that the admission conditions are limited to the maximum, that students should be there as few as possible and that they can say that there is no one, and now take them over. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] You can clearly feel the pressure. How do you look at it? In fact, there should be a common approach here...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U340	Whoa, questioner, your time, sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U341	Thank you for your question. Yeah, well, I've been doing it pretty much myself. This plan, which the Ministry of Education and Research had in previous years, that we would hand it over to the municipalities, otherwise we would close it, was such a threat, nor was it the most successful plan. The main reason is, actually, quite frankly, that in the case of special educational needs, the parent decides where he puts the child. These parents and families are advised, offered [option], and the final decision is made by the parent. He can put the kid in regular school, and then regular schools are in trouble, I know. There are smaller classes, smaller groups made, support teachers. But then there's the problem with specialists again. I know that the Ministry of Education is moving in some counties towards a project that makes a county-centred project that doesn't mean that there's a HEV school there, a competence centre where municipalities together take over a school with special educational needs [children's]. This competence must, however, have the state's money and support in terms of various programmes. This one school would be a centre in this county to enable municipalities to order this service from there. Because the first decision-maker, just as we have talked about different needs, for example, be they the health needs of people, both children and adults, this first door is the municipality. There must be so much competence that if the municipality can manage itself, it will direct its services if it fails to do so, then state services. These are also very relevant to health services. Yeah, I know it's a problem, I'm not saying any different. I very much hope that this solution will be found as soon as possible, because there is quite a lot of children, as we know, who need support from specialists with different competences for their special needs. I know the Ministry of Education is still making an effort on this. If, in the meantime, it really felt like trying to give the local governments a hot ball, then now I think the Ministry of Education and Research also feels responsible that, since it is their subject matter, how to solve it with the local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U342	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Dear colleagues, before we go to the round of negotiations, I would remind you that today is a long-awaited Monday, after enquiries, as you know, there is a good way to register for an appearance in a free microphone. So I'm looking forward to registering with all my thoughts. But before we get there, I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Lauri Läänemetsa, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U343	Thank you. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U344	Yes, please! Eight minutes, that's what it felt like.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U345	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, What is happening quietly, but firmly, is still the contraction of the school network, teachers and learning opportunities in rural areas. The Social Democrats do not agree with this kind of action. I'm going over some examples of what the government has to do. Motivating the closure of upper secondary schools, a financial reward for this for those regions, municipalities who close the upper secondary school. If this isn't an action towards closing schools, I'm asking what it is. Of course [it] is. Secondly, for several years, the Ministry of Education and Research in the Teachers' page has bought space and written and explained how the school network should be organized. I translate: cleaning up the school network usually means closing down a school or cutting down a school grade from that school. Perhaps once again: schools, educational opportunities are reduced in rural areas. Last year, I recall, the Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna spoke about schools whose third grade, or seventh to ninth grade, teaches less than 30 students to shut down this third grade in these schools. When we think about which schools are going down there, yes, there are certainly basic schools where the number of students is so low and there may be a practical and logical need to take these steps. But schools with 85, 75, 80 students are also going down there. Who knows the rural areas and their different possibilities, it knows that in a very large number of places a school with such a number of students has a strong primary school. There's no reason to go in there. These few examples already show that they are very aware and systematic in order to bring schools across Estonia together. Of course, it is a great pity that the honourable and honorable Minister of Public Administration said that the government itself had no plans whatsoever. I'd say if some kind of ministry did something, no matter whether it was the Ministry of Education and Research or some other ministry, that's what the government does. The fact that this loss has not been decided jointly in the government is a pity that it has not been done. We do believe that everything that concerns the collapse of the educational network must also have a regional analysis. So our appeal to the honourable Minister of State Administration, as well as to the Government of the Republic, is that please analyse the regional impact, what is the result. I am just saying that the smaller the region is, the bigger and more important the role of the school in the region or in this community. School is actually a social associate. If there are no other institutions or institutions in this area that bring people together, then the school brings them together, she brings them together young people, she brings together mothers and fathers, she brings together parents from different parts of the country and binds them together. This is very important; it is a very important matter for regional development or for the sustainability of the community. At the same time, a large number of schools also play a very important cultural role in addition to providing education. This, too, is a very important thing in terms of the development of the regions, which could be put at risk. They talk about the quality of education. Yes, I understand that with a certain number of students, the quality of education can really suffer. But I would like to remind you that, when it comes to the quality of education, the first thing is the pay of teachers. Yes, the faculty is ageing, but besides having a teacher problem, I would say that, above all, we have a normal, reasonable, dignified teacher pay problem. It's entirely a government thing to do. For some reason, these solutions have not been sought. Let's just say that, because of inflation and the budget that has been made for this year, even before the increase in energy prices, it was actually foreseen that teachers, with their wages, would fall well behind the rest of the wage race. Very sorry, very sorry. Of course, then we'll never find the teachers, and then we'll start talking about the fact that, yes, you see, this is where the school needs to be shut down and it needs to be cut. Another thing about the quality of education is the learner-centred approach. It happens that this can be done significantly better in a smaller class than in a larger class. So, in my opinion, the smaller school still has a very important role to play in this regard. The third point, on which we would also like to look at the current government and which also has a very strong regional impact, concerns education of interest. The Social Democrats worked very hard to support the provision of recreational education in sparsely populated areas. In the state budget this year, this funding has been halved. It is the same smaller regions that suffer where this small rural school or small town school also has a very important supporting effect. Many teachers are involved in the provision of education in the field of interest. If a teacher does not meet there, it can be supported by an education of interest and it keeps a teacher in rural areas. So this is also an example of where and how opportunities to study at home are systematically reduced. Ultimately, if school is lost, it will certainly have an impact on young families. Living with young families in a region affects businesses there, they in turn affect jobs and all this affects the capacity of the municipality. So, then, it is very important that everything that concerns education is not just a question of education when we move away from the big cities, but a question of regional development. If such decisions are made on such a scale that the closure or cutting down of a hundred schools and all the other thoughts that have come out of government or ministers, then there must be regional analysis. There's no way one department is gonna do anything, and the others don't know anything. The government is one, the government's responsibility is one. If you can see one ministry going south, it should be like another minister rushing to help, especially if it's his responsibility. So the Social Democrats hope that the honourable Minister of Public Administration will tackle this issue and analyse the impact on regional development, jobs and, ultimately, on the livelihood of their municipalities, of cutting school levels or closing [the schools]. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U346	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Heiki Hepner. Three more, eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U347	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Education is, of course, for municipalities a and o, the beginning and end. It is, I dare say, one of the important foundations on which the municipality relies. If it's wrong, the municipality won't stay, that's pretty clear. But in my speech, I would rather focus or focus really on upper secondary school education and discuss it a little bit. It is quite clear that we need a comprehensive solution, and we also need a clear picture of the education network and a debate about it if necessary. It's not like we've had much time to discuss in this hall. After all, the last time the Minister of Education was here, the debate was limited to the fact that every ambassador could ask one question, and that was the whole story. Well, this isn't a debate. On the other hand, of course, we also know that basic education has been put into the responsibility of municipalities, but upper secondary school education has been put into the responsibility of the state. I would also make a concession here, and I would say that upper secondary school education could be equal in the area of responsibility of both the state and the municipality. And why? Let's see how it would work if we took out the upper secondary school level there, which is now sometimes called plumbing schools, but I call them maghymnasiums. Surely this would have a negative impact on teachers' motivation. It is quite clear that it is also motivating for teachers to teach upper secondary school students. This may be important for a part in order to continue teaching at that school. The second thing is quite clear: school transport would cost almost half. I've been a parish elder myself, and I've been forced to prove to the Ministry of Education that it's a stupid idea to lose upper secondary school in an elementary school because really, the transport side alone should have been multiplied by two. Students must reach the school and no longer be able to use the transport network set up by [the municipality] for their school, i.e. they must create double bus connections. There would also be problems with receiving teachers who teach at both the third and fourth levels of school, i.e. in progymnasium and upper secondary schools. If we were to lose upper secondary school, it would mean that teachers with minimal burden would be needed for a progymnasium. If you otherwise get either almost full load or even full load, then there's some kind of 0.2 or 0.3 for this alternative, maybe in the right case the load is 0.5. This will certainly generate additional costs for the municipality. We've already talked about motivation. Now about the quality of education. In my opinion, it is being abused here when it is said that it is not possible to create conditions in magymnasiums so that students can acquire a good education. If early childhood education, primary education and primary education are weak, then upper secondary school education does not come of high quality. In fact, education is one whole. If we want upper secondary school education to be very good, then it would also assume that primary school teachers are very good, primary school teachers are very good and kindergarten teachers are very good. This is the only way to achieve this. As if to attract good teachers with the idea of coming to state secondary schools, we will provide you with better conditions, and children will be able to obtain a better education, as if, well, that is plain foolishness, speaking out. This is not the case, and this must not be the case, because it is not the school's form that gives rise to any effect of enlightening children that, if they cross the threshold of state secondary school, they will immediately acquire what remained unacquired in primary school without even studying at state secondary school. The last issue I asked about is the education network for children with special educational needs. This is indeed a very important subject, which has also been dealt with in half. In a way, I wouldn't want to attack the Ministry of Education in any way right now. I know that, as the Minister said, they have at least taken the idea that what was once planned to be closed or taken over has been abandoned and has reached this stage of debate on how to proceed. It is now very important that this phase of debate is fruitful, so that both parties, both municipalities, who will have to deal with this issue anyway, and the country, which basically holds the wallet, are able to solve this issue together. I said at the beginning that for municipalities, education is a and o. I'm sure he is. The only thing that can create an obstacle here is the municipal income base. I also do not believe that I agree with the Minister in this respect that any municipality would close its school after some 10,000 or 20,000 [euro]. I don't believe it. We don't have that kind of stupid government leaders. So stupid parish or city council members we have, I hope not. But that doesn't mean you don't have to think about the municipal income base. The revenue of the state is growing at half the rate of the local governments. This means that we also need to think about how to increase the municipal income base so that they can create reasonable conditions for their educational network and that children should not leave because schools are being shut down somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U348	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-14_U349	We will move on to the next stage of today's agenda, for which, as has already been said, a Monday free microphone is always warmly awaited. Good fellows, please! Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech after the hammer hit. I also say I don't have to rush, everyone can speak calmly in a free microphone. Okay. As long as no one wishes to speak in a free microphone, the session is adjourned. Thank you. Good luck in your work!
