ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers! We're gonna start the 20th April briefing, and first we're gonna run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U2	21 members of the Riigikogu registered, 80 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas. Dear colleagues, since nine issues have been registered in advance, I have a suggestion that we work as follows, that there is one additional question for the questioner and one further question for the questioner. I believe that this will allow us to go through nine questions. If that's okay, let's get started.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U3	The first questioner is Mr. Helir-Valdor Seeder, member of the Riigikogu, who answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the subject is internal security. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U4	Thank you. Prime Minister! Internal security is a very broad area, starting with the availability of the necessary supplies and ending with the salaries of policemen and rescuers. All of this, of course, requires money. But a lot can be done without money. My question concerns those internal security measures that do not require additional money. The Fatherland has initiated and made various proposals concerning the ban on hostile symbolism. In this, we are in the Riigikogu finding a common language, and I hope that tomorrow this bill will also be adopted in the form of a law. In addition, we have initiated and made proposals to stop issuing visas and residence permits or to withdraw visas and residence permits for people who have publicly called for support for Russia's aggression against Ukraine. We have also submitted a draft aimed at suspending the [validity] of arms licences and the obligation to deposit [weapons] with the citizens of Belarus and Russia in exactly the same way as a draft which does not require a particularly high level of financial resources. Third-country nationals, in particular citizens of Belarus and Russia, also have the right to vote in local elections [should be abolished]. It is forbidden in very many European countries; it is not possible, be it in Latvia, where there is a large proportion of Russian citizens, but also in France, Germany, Greece and elsewhere. As far as I know, there is no such right in 13 Member States of the European Union. Practice has shown that it has become a threat to internal security in Estonia. Will the Government of the Republic support these initiatives and proposals which do not require additional financial resources and which are applicable in a relatively short period of time and which have been standing here in Parliament for several weeks? What's the government's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U5	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U6	Thank you. Firstly, it is indeed a pleasure that a consensus has been found in Parliament to ban symbolism. The government really sent such a draft to the Riigikogu, and I know that various initiatives have also been taken by different political parties, including Isamaa. The important thing is that we find a common language here. There are, of course, a number of other issues that we are dealing with. I'd like to take care of all the issues you've highlighted. The issue of visas and residence permits for citizens of Russia and Belarus has been completed by a decision of the Government. They won't be given any more, so we've already done it for ourselves. Of course, there is no limit to [movement] when family visits are made. However, the granting of visas and residence permits to citizens of Belarus and Russia has indeed been stopped, as is the granting of e-residency, nor is it at the moment. As far as weapons permits are concerned, I believe that a major mistake was made in the case of weapons permits years ago. The Reform Party was very clearly opposed to the abolition of the Estonian-language exam when granting weapons licences, but your party, as far as I know, supported it. Indeed, this exam does not have to be taken in Estonian, so we have a situation where people who do not speak Estonian or are citizens of other countries can take it. In my opinion, it should be [prohibited]. Even now, the state has legal bases in law for the purpose of suspending and revoking the weapons permit in the interests of security and public order. I asked [of this] the Chancellor of Justice simply for support, not specifically for an official opinion. We discussed whether, for example, the suspension of permits for sports, hunting and self-defence weapons by citizenship is constitutional. [We found that] we'd rather not. But what I want to say is that there are already possibilities in the law to limit or remove weapons permits from people who are a threat to Estonia's security. The Police and Border Guard Board is looking in very clearly, so to speak, and such permits are not granted if there is a threat to security and public order.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U7	Now for the additional question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U8	Thank you for your answer. But I didn't really get a good answer. The fact that it has been decided to restrict the issue of visas and residence permits is one thing I stress that [only] will be restricted, it has not been decided to complete. However, the emphasis on my question was still that it would also be possible to end the residence permit or the validity of visas issued by people living here if they publicly called for support for Russia's aggression. To that end, we do not have a good legislative base. As far as weapons permits are concerned, it is obviously not enough when we are talking about completing the Russian exam. I am speaking very clearly, however, about all Russian and Belarusian citizens who are currently committing aggression against Ukraine on the suspension of all arms licences and the removal of [their] weapons. It is quite different from changing the law on the future language of the examination required for the permit of weapons. I have a request for a clear answer, which is the government's position on these very specific initiatives. In addition to the right to vote you referred to. In many European countries, there is a very clear distinction that EU citizens have the right to vote in local elections and the rest do not have third-country nationals. In Estonia, however, [they] have this right and this is a security threat. The abolition of this [right] is fully in line with the Estonian Constitution and also international law. Will the government support these initiatives? And my further question is about today's news that the Director-General of the Police Department announced that public events with hostile symbols are prohibited from 26 April to 9 May. Are they really allowed after 9 May?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U9	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U10	Thank you. Yes, the issuing of visas and the issuing of residence permits are the decision we made, their issuing is complete. As far as weapons permits are concerned, however, I hope that you will admit that it was a mistake on your part to relax these criteria for the granting of weapons permits and the requirement of the Estonian language [to lose]. This is why we have a situation where we have people who are not Estonian citizens and have weapons permits. But what I'm saying is, there aren't many. There are over 25000 persons in Estonia with weapons permits, of whom there are 1232 persons with Russia, Belarus or undefined citizenship. The fact that these drafts are pending in the Riigikogu, I think, brings out this debate, which is constitutional and which is not, what can and cannot be done. I think that we all share the desire to ensure our security well enough. And one part of this security is that public order is not compromised by people who have a weapons permit and who are a direct threat to our security or public order. As regards the second question and the right to vote at local level, it is indeed the rule that in local elections all people with a residence permit in Estonia can choose, i.e. residents of Estonia. It is not limited to what nationality they actually have. Fortunately, we have until the next local elections, and the next local elections will be in 2025. There's still a long way to go, and we can fix these things. So far, it has been the view that all people with a residence permit in Estonia have exactly the same rights as Estonian citizens, with the exception of the right to choose the European Parliament and the right to choose the Riigikogu. It's been that way so far. Now, with regard to allowing hostilities, of course, such events are not allowed, either now or in the future. The message that the Police and Border Guard Board issued is very clear that it will not be tolerated, and especially during a period when we know that such events are being organised. This is probably why these dates were brought out in order to highlight the emphasis: if there is a desire to organise an event on 9 May, such things will not be allowed with a hostile symbolism. This does not mean, however, that the deceased should not be commemorated at the cemetery as it has been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U11	I would now like an additional question, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kaja Kallas! The last time we met in this Chamber, I asked you a question about Kalle Laanet's activities. To remind you so much that as I moved along the corridors of the Riigikogu, I met Kalle Laanet, the Minister of Defence, who told me that if I spoke out on Mali, my son, who is an active soldier, would be doing badly in the service. You said you would never believe Kalle Laane to say anything like that. Fortunately, Delfi, who did an interview with me and Kalle Laanet, actually collided with what I was saying. There was no dispute about [the meeting], Kalle Laanet also said that we met. Kalle Laanet also said that we were talking about Mali, but what we were talking about, she did not say to the journalists, saying that it was sensitive. I made that point. I would like to know from you whether you are familiar with this issue at this level too, and have you talked to Kalle Laanet about this? If you haven't spoken, why haven't you spoken? For me, it is outrageous for ministers to threaten members of the Riigikogu through family ties. It seemed like more Stalin's time left.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U13	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U14	Thank you. I have not spoken to [the minister] about this because I have no reason to believe you, and secondly, I have no interest in dealing with your own conversations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U15	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U16	Let us move on to the next question. It is presented by Helle-Moonika Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, responds to this and the subject is energy security. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We have bounced on this issue of energy security here in a number of briefings, and the issue is still how we can replace Russian gas in the near future, i.e. in the next heating period, which we do not want to consume. Yesterday, there was an article on the ERR [portal] where Meelis Eldermann, technical director of the Viru Chemistry Group, suggested that Estonia could replace Russian gas for district heating with higher domestic calorific value and lower price oil shale oil. He said that if we wanted to give up Russian gas, we could significantly reduce that amount if we used oil shale oil instead of gas for heating. He also said that if we were talking about this, and we've been talking about the reconditioning of these boiler houses, it would actually be technically easy, the burners should be replaced, the container and the pipeline fitted with the pump, and that would be all. And he also said that his opinion was that it should be done today. Are you familiar with this issue, have you discussed it and what your position on this matter is?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U18	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! Indeed, this is one possible option. This option has rather been considered as an option in a situation of gas shortage. If necessary, if there is no Russian gas and there is a gas shortage, then gas fuel oil could be replaced. These opportunities exist in many places. Companies that used fuel oils in the past, for example, have also switched to gas or wood chips. Companies have also considered that it would be possible to replace these materials with fuel oil in a crisis situation. This is definitely a fallback, but today we are still working to have gas, so we have LNG, not gas from Russia. I think this would be our first plan, but really, in the face of a major crisis, the scheme you described is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U20	Additional question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U21	Yes, I think that both you and I and everyone who looks at us and listens to us, as well as everyone who is in this Chamber, agree that our independent, quickly available and [of this] cheaper energy should be of common interest to all of us. But anyway, coming back to this subject, we know we don't have a lot of options. For LNG, experts have also said that this is the most expensive type of gas ever. This is a huge burden for our Estonian people, for our economy, for our entrepreneurs. On the one hand, you may have already made plans that what happens if there is a deficit or if it all goes unbearablely expensive, which will be next winter, okay, and whether you are going to prepare aid packages. And as far as wood chips are concerned, yes, but we know that the import of wood from Russia is currently restricted, even stopped. This puts a great deal of pressure on our forests, cutting pressure is increasing. We can't really build our energy on this, either. I'd ask you that. We know that the war in Ukraine is so-called Putin's fault, and there is really nothing we can do about it, okay, which [touches the problems that] arise here with the cost of living and energy. But there is no justification, in fact, in the current situation, for blind compliance with greenery, and in difficult times we should not hold on to it and restrict our people, businesses and the economy. Are you also going to change your views a little bit about this, how I say it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U22	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U23	Thank you. First of all, about wood chips and Estonia's need for wood chips. In the case of wood chips, a distinction needs to be made between [the following]: there is construction wood waste and there is this wood chipping from our own raw material. As a rule, construction wood waste has been imported into Estonia; there are not so many of them that are used here, and then it is part of the chipping wood that is created in Estonia itself. Estonia's own need would be fully covered if we did not export chips from Estonia, whether in granules or otherwise. So, in fact, I think that the fact that Estonia has largely switched to chipping wood in the case of district heating is extremely positive and certainly helped many consumers this winter. Now that we come again to this domestic oil shale oil, today Estonia's need is covered with natural gas or gas as a whole. There's a supply in Inčukalns. We have decided to acquire a national reserve of one pointy [-hour] and not to acquire it from Russia. They're working to make sure we have the LNG terminal. We are working in the direction that the costs of this floating terminal are also shared, which will certainly make it cheaper for the Estonian consumer. These are initial plans, but once again: the use of oil is really an issue in a crisis, if there really is to be a gas shortage and a switch to other sources of heating. In addition, there is, of course, a reserve of protected consumers in Inčukalns, which is the gas needed for domestic consumers. We come to the oil when all other matters are exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U24	And now one more question. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U25	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! A comment for starters. As a representative of the owner of Narva Power Plants, you could immediately stop burning wood in inefficient furnaces there and as a result the need for cutting in Estonia would be significantly reduced. There's no point in getting behind sanctions here. But my question isn't about that. I will go on with the question of Moonika Helme, or [I asked] about the price of our district heating. One way to replace a very bloody gas is to install two heat pumps in Tallinn: one in the sea, one in the waste station. But the entrepreneurs have said that everyone agrees that this should be done, but it will take about four years for this bureaucracy to get these heat pumps to work. My question is whether you would take it to your heart to come to the companies [to meet] so that there is less red tape and businesses can make their investments faster. It's all for us, for the purpose of reducing the warm bill for the stables.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U26	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U27	Thank you. First of all, I should improve you in this respect that I am not the representative of the owners of Eesti Energia. I'm Elering's representative. These representations, as we know, are divided between ministries. In the case of hot pumps, I assume you were talking about geothermal pumps or heat pumps. When I worked in the city of Tallinn a long time ago, we really talked very seriously about the possibility of using a heat pump, an geothermal pump. At the time, this project was broken for the simple reason that environmentalists clearly opposed it. The justification was then given for the protection of the aquifers. This is also an option for the sea, and this option will certainly be considered. In addition, the Estonian Geology Service is doing a very grateful job with regard to the introduction of all this geothermal energy in Estonia. In those days, by the way, we also have Finnish geologists visiting us, and I just met with them, who are cooperating well in this area. To a certain extent, Estonia's heating needs can really be covered on the mainland by geothermal pumps, deep geothermal pumps. These projects are also being introduced by the Estonian Geology Service these days. Another option on the seashore is definitely the use of sea water. There are even conditions for this in Tallinn; we have a very deep bay here at times, where energy can be obtained. But it is certainly not a quick solution. Geological studies must be carried out first, they can go on and assess environmental impacts and only then can decisions be made. Such environmental issues must certainly not be transgressed to these projects, as it is very important that the work does not cause damage to groundwater.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U28	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U29	Let us move on to the next question, that is the third. It is presented by the Member of the Riigikogu Kalvi Tõud, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is energy security. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U30	Thank you. For starters, when we look at this Riigikogu hall, we see that the lights are on. Let it be said that right now, at this point we produce 700 megawatt-hours, of which about 300 come from the sun, 250 from oil shale, a hundred from the wind, and a little bit from elsewhere. I was just looking up the electricity map. The sun, as we can see, currently has a very large share, and thanks to the sun, the price was 100 euros this morning per kilowatt-hour, now it is somewhere like 79 euros. Thanks to the sun, the price has come down now. And I am pleased that the Prime Minister has told us several times in this briefing that he attaches great importance to the sun and that in order for our household customers to get over their large electricity bills, [they] should think about [how to install] more of these stationary wind and solar stations. That's what you said twice in this briefing. Very reasonable! But I'm confused. I am confused because your right-hand Minister for Economic Affairs has expressed the opinion in the Business Paper that solar parks are not reasonable and they burden our transmission networks, the transmission networks do not accept it. There is no plan to develop these [networks], as I understand it. The more problematic regions are islands and South-East Estonia, I know it from my own hands. Walking around Southeast Estonia [I can see that] this is a very big problem. People say they want to make a solar station, but the network doesn't allow it, and then there's gonna be some really big problems. Now I have a question about what the government's position is. Do we want the sun, or is it as the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure says he does not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U31	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U32	Thank you. Who doesn't want the sun? The weather with the sun is always better than the weather without the sun. I don't think there's a lot of contradictions here. But more seriously now. We are dealing with this issue in the supplementary budget. I very much agree with you that energy security is part of security. In fact, it is also [important] that we have a lot of distributed production, many different energy sources that we use, not one big one, which is perhaps easily attacked, but that there are many [small solutions] in different places and that these small solutions are also where consumption is. What have been the bottlenecks? There have been networks that do not bear out, and actually there have been obstacles to investment in these small solutions. In the supplementary budget, we foresee an additional EUR 8 million in investments in networks. We have also discussed how to make sure that network operators can allow small-scale productions to connect to the network and then model around the network. These really aren't such big productions that they would knock the entire network out of balance. [This is what is needed] precisely so that we can move from behind the stump. The second thing we have in the supplementary budget is investment of EUR 19 million in small energy solutions, precisely in order to have an additional support measure for these energy solutions to be created. So in any case by action we show that we believe in the sun, we believe in these small solutions. We want these things to move out from behind the stump and we need solutions based on the sun, wind and other renewable energy sources, which are linked to high consumption, for example in factories, especially those that have used energy sources that are currently problematic. For example, gas is one that inevitably raises questions. But by saying all this, we need to understand that we need energy sources that are stable. Indeed, even on these winter days, when we do not have sunshine and produce, we must be able to keep the lights on and the rooms warm.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U33	Specific question, Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U34	Thank you. I'll keep my eyes open and see if it gets better in Southeast Estonia in the coming months. If you don't, I'll ask you again. However, I do not have a precise [question] but a completely different question. I read here Saturday night events and it doesn't come as a surprise that the lack of chipping wood screws the heating prices up to new heights and it's a rough autumn ahead. Experts in this paper say very nicely that concerns have arisen since last autumn, when the use of wood chips in inefficient large boilers at Narva Power Plants has increased considerably. The so-called highly profitable power generation in Narva is being paid by our heat consumers here in the capital and in other places where chips are heated. In my opinion, the government has two ways: either to ban the burning of chips in Narva boilers or to have people write out bigger electricity bills. Does the government plan to do something about burning chips at Narva plants, which [will result] in large heat bills?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U35	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U36	Thank you. First of all, the energy timber market is certainly not [only] Estonia, but it is regional. Eesti Energia alone is not so big on this market as to be able to influence the market price of biomass. Most or almost half of Estonia's biomass is exported, so the price is not dictated within Estonia, but it is a regional market, as I said. The demand for energy wood is driven above all by the high price of gas and the desire to make energy production more environmentally friendly. But really, if I look at these prices, then [I can see that] the price of the firewood has risen a lot in the last year and it has also risen elsewhere. Eesti Energia uses largely biomass in its boilers, which is of low quality and cannot be used by other energy wood users, including district heating boilers. There is also no price competition. The price of wood chips is, of course, a matter, and the question is also whether there is pressure for further chopping. According to the materials presented to me, that is not the case. I guess it's been under discussion all the time. I don't think it's right to have this wood burned in Narva boilers either. But when I look at these numbers, it's [I find that] that can't be the reason that the price of wood chips generally drags up. I see that during the last six months, Eesti Energia has also acquired 14% of wood from outside. They have, of course, limited import volumes due to changes in environmental permits for installations belonging to Eesti Energia. But it's a problem for a lot of wood users, everybody's got the price of wood going up. Unfortunately, the prices of other inputs, be they gas or inputs from other productions in general, have also gone up. So this is more of a problem than just a problem concerning timber and Narva Power Plants.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U37	And now please ask for an additional question, René Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Contrary to Kalvi, I consider it reasonable to continue using wood, i.e. brush, branches and low-value wood, which cannot do other things and which cannot be deserved, in heat production. This is our own resource of Estonia, which is growing on top. But the question is this: has there been any discussion about how to mitigate or either mitigate the environmental requirements associated with construction wood waste, even at a moment's notice, because we know that the situation of energy carriers is currently difficult and the requirements are very high, of course, for the right to use construction wood waste as chips. Perhaps it would be reasonable to reduce environmental requirements a little over time in order to overcome this crisis more easily. The Minister for Economic Affairs also said that coming to oil is one of the last options before everything else is exhausted. Has this debate already been or is it planned to discuss how to use construction wood waste as much as possible as chipping wood in our heat production?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U39	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U40	Thank you. No, we have not had such a debate. But I wrote it down, and we can raise it. I honestly didn't know that was the problem. Maybe there's an extra chance. Naturally, environmental requirements have been set so that we do not cause further damage to the environment. They are generally thought out in such a way that we protect the environment in the long term and do nothing for short-term benefits that would affect the environment in the long term. But I'm gonna take this subject with me, and I think we can discuss it in the office.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U42	Let's move on to theme four. This question is posed by Üllar Saaremäe, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is sanctions. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U43	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! They say every shoemaker stays with his own grids. On these grids, I am now, and I am very much concerned with the subject of "sanctions" from my own point of view. My questions relate to the blacklist of non-existent Kremlin nightingales, so it has become called the common language, with almost no sanctions. To begin with, I might say so much that yesterday in the Estonian Päevaleht, Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets writes: "The ban list of Russian artists would be a substitute activity. " By the way, says that banning Kirkorov, for example, would be too black and white a solution. On the wall of Facebook, the Member of the European Parliament, Urmas Paet, responds: "What is substitution?! It is elementary that all advocates of the Russian aggressor regime are made the most difficult of life. It's the least we can do. Russian war is a black and white issue. And all supporters of the Russian regime are on the wrong side with the consequences." First of all, I would like to ask you how you will comment on two such cross-controversial assertions of one of your own government ministers, the other of your party associates. That's one. And secondly, what are the positions of the government? What will be, yes, I stress: will be these sanctions and steps on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U44	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U45	Thank you. I agree with Urmas Paet that [in this] war everything is black and white. In this war, the picture is very black and white. There's a country that's attacked another country. There is one regime, the Putin regime, which kills innocent civilians in Ukraine, and everyone who justifies it is stepping on this black side, that is my position. It is a fact that there is a war in Ukraine, and it is a fact that the attack on Ukraine by the Putin regime has been condemned practically by the whole world. In my opinion, it is also reasonable to make a list of people who are not welcome in Estonia because they support the Putin regime or have acted accordingly or have chosen an aggressor party. It's just, in war, everything is so black and white. What we need to think about in the future is that it is clear that all the organisers of the event need additional guidance that the Ministry of Culture could give and on which basis the organisers or entrepreneurs of the event can make these decisions, because all operators and organisers of the event should also have a moral compass themselves. What did we see in Russia? There is a whole package of sanctions that Europe or the Western world imposed against Russia, but there were also a number of companies that said that they would not tolerate Russia's activities in Ukraine and that is why they would cease their activities in Russia. They were not subject to any sanctions, but their moral compass said it was wrong to act there now. Therefore, in my opinion, the organisers of the event also have a responsibility. But indeed, if [it is found that] this list is needed, so, for example, the people who performed this Putin concert, which specifically justified the war, would not be welcome in Estonia, nor would the people who support the Putin regime, [then] we need to understand that such a list is never exhaustive. But it seems to me that in the war, things really are so black and white.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U46	Now, the question to be specified. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U47	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In part, you have already answered my following question, but perhaps some clarifications. In this article, which has already been quoted, yesterday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs proposes five points for a solution. He points out, first, that relations have been minimal since the beginning of the war. Further, it will be impossible to issue visas. As a fourth point, he is dealing with the same subject, which you too, that the concert organiser himself knows best sometimes the invited performers, and should therefore take responsibility, so to speak, whether to invite [this performer] or not. Again, I must quote Facebook, where Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who is asked a similar question, says: "There must be clarity here. No artist supporting the Russian military activities and thereby the genocide against the Ukrainian people should be allowed to enter Estonia. It cannot be left to the concert organisers alone. " My question now is that when I listen to you, I understand [the others], the thought is clear and the views are understandable. But since these claims are presented by your Foreign Minister and they are contradictory to the cross, I repeat, to those which I quoted from [Facebook], the [tell] which steps are still being taken and what will be the position of the government in the specific case of one or the other. We will take the very same concert organisers who, according to the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, should not be left with responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U48	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U49	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that when it comes to citizens of the European Union, they do not need any entry permit to Estonia, they do not need any visa. We are in the Schengen area, and these people can come here because there is no border check. But indeed, countries can also take steps to declare certain people undesirable in their own country. It can be done. However, I would like to say that in this situation where we are now, all people and businesses have a responsibility. This responsibility lies not only with the government, but also with the local government, which promises to organise such events. The local government can also decide on these events, and they must also bear this responsibility. Similarly, companies must bear this responsibility. As I said, companies also have their own moral compass, which should be available for decision-making. If guidelines are needed for this, I believe that the Ministry of Culture could provide these guidelines so that all organisers of events can make their decisions on the basis of these [the guidelines]. If local authorities do not make the decisions that are within their competence, then [the decision whether or not to permit] the event must be taken by the government. Then, of course, we are ready to make such decisions so that things are clear, because unfortunately, in war, things are so black and white. So all the people who actually justify this war now or support the Putin regime will also support the killing of civilians in Ukraine and all the horrors we see in Ukraine, and this cannot be tolerated in any way at present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U50	And now for an additional question, Mikhail Lotman!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I fully agree with you when you talk about what is happening in Ukraine. However, I cannot accept what must now be happening in Estonia. Apart from moral responsibility, there must also be political responsibility and it cannot be delegated to individual or local authorities. Local government in Tallinn, based on its voters, would certainly like to see Kirkorov. But Kirkorov is not a black and white phenomenon; he is a black phenomenon, as the Russians say, he does not even have anywhere to seal, he is so soaked with Putin's propaganda. Moreover, he is Putin's propaganda. I imagine there are two possible solutions. Both must also be [established] at government level. First, indeed, make [a] list of those who have supported war, aggression, and genocide. It has been said that it is difficult to produce. It's not hard. Unleash the Russian Vikipedi. I printed up to five pages of those social figures and artists who have literally supported the war. It could also include those who have supported the annexation of Crimea, the war in Georgia and so on. That's one solution. The second solution, perhaps even easier, is to allow only those Russian artists who have clearly condemned the war, and there are many of them. These are two simple solutions. Which would you prefer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U52	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U53	Thank you. Firstly, I am not pointing out the responsibility of others because I would like to say that the government should reject its responsibility. No! I just want to say that we all have a role to play in society and that everyone must be able to make these decisions on the basis of their moral compass and could do so. Let me give you this example: if we go down this path, that we are not doing anything until the government says what we have to do, then in some ways the situation is the same as it was at the time of the COVID: even if the infected numbers went high, no one started to hold the distance until the government said that it had to start to keep the distance. That doesn't make sense. We all have a responsibility in society. What I'm saying is that all parts of society play together, [form] puzzles. Now I come to your question. In my opinion, it is easier to make a list of people who are not currently expected to appear here because they have supported this regime, supported this war, supported the attack on another country, supported aggression and Putin's behaviour. Of these two options, it is [my] choice and, of course, the government is ready to take its steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U54	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U55	Let us move on to question five. It is presented by Peeter Ernits, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and the subject is LNG reception. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U56	Good manager! Good minister! In recent days, I've been doing quite a lot of work on this possible LNG terminal. On the weekend, I was even on the territory of the North Harbor, and I looked with my own eyes at what was there. But yesterday, the management of the Northern Port of Paldiski sent a letter, which I quote from one point now, and which the Prime Minister would also like to hear: "Remove the possibility of using the existing and secure quay No 7 of the Paldiski Northern Port as the location of the LNG floating terminal. If necessary, the port is ready to limit all other port activities in order to ensure the full safety of the terminal. In order to implement this proposal, it is necessary to establish only a few kilometres of land-based pipeline connection to the Balticconnector. The necessary technical design for the connection is in place and the construction of such a land line is fast and cheap. Unlike Alexela's floating terminal, there is no need to deepen the seabed and build 40 million cost terminal infrastructure, resulting in the floating terminal still being located on the high seas. The user and operator of the existing quay No 7 may also be Alexela. Kai may be used immediately. The necessary safety zones are secured, and the corresponding drawing is attached. " My question to the honourable Minister for Economic Affairs and perhaps to the Prime Minister is this: does the government intend to consider the proposal of the Northern Port of Paldiski?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U57	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! I think it is reasonable to consider all the options in this situation. However, we do know that today, with all environmental and other permits, the most advanced has been the Alexela project. In the case of a northern port, it must first be made clear whether these security areas are guaranteed there. As far as I know, they're not guaranteed there. But I might know wrong. Environmental studies are certainly needed, and they also take time. I certainly do not rule out any projects simply to exclude this project. But at the moment, we need to work towards a solution that can be achieved as quickly as possible, and that is precisely what we have just said. I would also like to answer Kalvi Tough questions to the Prime Minister by reply. The Rock Hard itself isn't here at the moment, but his group mates are there and can definitely pass on his greeting. First out of the solar panels. I have never said that I am against solar panels, but I said that it is unwise to use farmland as a place to build sun[parks], perhaps I am not the one to support the field after building solar parks. And now chips. The reality of our situation is that the wood produced in Estonia is practically as much exported as it is used in Estonia. This exported chipping wood is used to produce energy, including electricity, in the same way in the countries to which it is exported. I do not see any difference between the country in which this chipped wood electricity is produced and I refuse to understand why it is bad for Eesti Energia if it is produced, but it is good in another country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U59	Now please ask an additional or more specific question, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U60	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I'm still coming from the chopwood to the LNG. I will continue to quote yesterday's letter from the Northern Port Managers: "The conversions and proposals of the Paldiski Northern Port will be lost in the authorities. Several letters have been left unanswered and it has become apparent that they are simply not registered. The Northern Port of Paldiski has been introducing a possible LNG floating terminal solution to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Elering for years. " And then: "We hope that this proposal will not be overlooked more widely, because the business interests of one company are not at stake, but about ensuring the energy supply of the whole of Estonia, as well as the wider issue of security. " My specific question is: why have there been many visits to the North Port in recent years, letters to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications not registered or unanswered? And the other half of the question: will this practice end in the future, the Ministry will answer them and bring these questions to the table of the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U61	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U62	Thank you. As regards the registration or non-registration of letters, it must be examined in the ministry whether these claims are true or not. My best knowledge is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is doing the right thing, the letters are being registered and answered in time. I'll take that knowledge from here and ask you what's going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U63	And now one more question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Maybe you could say a few words. Your division is Elering. So what's Elering actually agreed to build the LNG terminal today? Do they have a ship to bring gas here? Yesterday's press release says there's money coming from the extra budget to rent a ship with the Finns. Does this ship physically exist, whether it comes to Alexela's terminal or docks somewhere else? I have the impression that Elering's people have not been very seriously in contact with Alexela or anyone else, how this system could be resolved I am interested in the ship in particular, because I know that there are 43 ships, and the latest data are such that this last ship has already gone somewhere on the market. Maybe you'll tell us, specify it, you'll have the best information.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U65	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U66	Thank you. First of all, Elering has two lines of work. One line of work is that of establishing a quay. [Actually] there are three [programming], the third is the pipeline connection from the quay to the mainland, but this activity is in their own hands. With this workflow related to the construction of the quay, negotiations are under way with Alexela, now with Infortar. These negotiations are actually taking place. Another direction is cooperation with Finnish colleagues. Cooperation with Finnish colleagues is indeed about finding a ship and agreeing to use it and all that is connected to it. My knowledge is that a ship has been found along with [Finland's colleagues] or rather by Finnish colleagues. Negotiations on this vessel are ongoing, there is not yet a final agreement on the use of the vessel. But negotiations are under way with the ship owner, so I would hope that in the near future we will find out. The claim that it is the same ship, to which Alexela also looked, can also be true. I do not have 100% confirmation of this, but given the number of ships that are still free at the moment, it cannot be ruled out that both sides looked at one ship at a time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U67	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U68	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by Riigikogu member Jaak Juske, meets Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the subject is poor wages. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U69	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! Certainly in the current situation, I think, all political parties are concerned about coping with the very rapid rise in prices. We have waited a long time for the actions of the Government Union here, because the additional budget for Parliament is lingering. But if you read the news, the government you run is planning to start planting 50 euros of subsidies in the run-up to the elections. In itself, any support for the people is commendable and necessary, but this EUR 50 support will in no way solve the current concern of the people. In order to address these concerns, the government must strongly propose measures to reduce people's labour poverty. The Social Democrats have come to the aid of the government and proposed one very effective way to make our minimum wage tax-free. This would, for example, leave 1,000 euros more to the teacher in the middle of the year and, indeed, very strongly reduce people's labour poverty. Is your government prepared to support this very necessary and sensible initiative and draft by the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U70	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U71	Thank you. Firstly, I would like to adjust that the additional budget has been put together in two weeks, very quickly. I would like to see the Riigikogu be able to deal with it as quickly as possible, which obviously is not real. But I am glad that everyone understands that it needs to be dealt with quickly, because the sooner we process it, the faster the income support can be increased. I also agree with you in this respect that indeed, last year's price growth has been very rapid and, unfortunately, exceeded wage growth. It's actually global. Price increases have affected all people, in particular because input prices, including energy prices, have increased so much. But what I might want to point out separately is that we have to distinguish two things. One has an absolute standard of living or absolute poverty and the other has different inequality indicators. These indicators of wage poverty are among the various indicators of inequality. When we are talking about absolute prosperity, it has grown a lot over the last few decades. According to Statistics Estonia, the absolute poverty rate has fallen from 30% to only 2.2% over the past 25 years, i.e. overall welfare has increased. This has been ensured by the increase in both wages and pensions, which have been stablely above the inflation rate. Prices have risen by 28% on average over the last ten years, while wages have risen by 92% and the minimum wage has increased by as much as 125%. I now come to this part of the question of the income tax system. It's easy to break the system. It's much harder to fix it. Unfortunately, there were also social democrats in the government when this system was violated, so we have a situation where really teachers, policemen and rescuers are going under this tax hump. But we're working on correcting mistakes. Already on 1 January 2023, the amendment to the Income Tax Act enters into force, according to which pensions will be exempt from income tax in the amount of the average pension. More than 300000 pensioners will no longer have to worry about this and will no longer have to pay income tax on the average pension. Of course, we need to move forward in ordering this system, but it is a lesson for everyone that we should not break what works because it is much more difficult to fix it after that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U72	Specific question, Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U73	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! If the government can do its job and the budget sends it to the Riigikogu, then we will do our utmost to get it processed and adopted as soon as possible. It is very good that you have admitted that prices are currently indeed rising faster than the wages of the Estonian people. In fact, every week, every month, we're getting more and more underpaid. If any law is in the way of time, it must, of course, be changed. That is why the Social Democrats have proposed that the minimum wage be exempt from income tax. I ask you once again: are you ready to support this initiative and this proposal? You can't?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U74	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U75	Thank you. The difference between you and me is that I'm in the government and you're in opposition. In itself, this idea is very correct. The income tax system must be repaired, I absolutely agree. And again, I stress that it should not have been ruined in 2016 when you formed the government. But let's not go back there. Today we are improving this income tax system step by step, because it is just so expensive to fix it. What's important? What is important is that we can ensure that the economy functions in such a way that wages grow faster than prices. The positive or encouraging news is that the rise in energy prices should have stopped and should no longer lead to such high inflation. So, actually, next fall, we should have a slightly better situation than we do now. The other thing, of course, is that people have jobs, they have jobs. If I look at the risk of poverty for an unemployed person twice as much as the average risk of poverty for an Estonian person, then we must make every effort to ensure that there are no unemployed people. We have worked for the good of the economy, and thanks both to our ability to keep society as open as possible during the COVID period, our economic growth was much greater than that of our neighbours. Estonia's economic growth was 8.6%, Lithuania, Latvia and Sweden it was 4.8% and Finland 3.3%. We've done much better. I also see that our unemployment rate has fallen to the lowest level in the region: 5.9%. For example, in Latvia it is 7.2, in Lithuania 7,0, in Finland 6.9 and in Sweden 7.7%. I agree with you, the difficult times are ahead and the war in Ukraine affects a great many supply chains. Both sanctions and availability of raw materials are affected. This could lead to higher unemployment, which in turn raises problems. But in answer to your question, yes, this law must be fixed as a matter of urgency so that there are no more such steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U76	Now for an additional question, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I would remind you, just in case, that if the EUR 500 tax exemption was made thanks to Fatherland, the average pension was EUR 380. It is very right that if the average pension increases, the tax exemption should also increase. My question is [about] that we argued here in January and December when the average pension should be exempt from income tax and this one-off increase of EUR 20. We can see that prices have become so much more expensive. Why did you not come back to this issue during the debate on the additional budget? For example, the average pension from the Midsummer Day could be exempt from income tax and the pension for all pensioners could rise by 20 euros. If we are really worried about them, then this decision could be reviewed and implemented from the next semester, 1 July.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U78	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U79	Thank you. The additional budget is very clearly targeted, and it is aimed at increasing our security, energy security and internal security, to make additional investments to ensure the protection of the population, to ensure our defence capacity. There's one part about internal security, people's livelihood. We are not going to open the decisions that we have already made with the budget, and indeed, already in October this year, the support of an individual pensioner will rise. The pensioner does not have to apply for this allowance himself, but is paid after checking the data in the national registers. The average pension will rise next year, as agreed. What is important is that we put additional money in reserve in the supplementary budget in order to help people in the next heating period, when there may again be an increase in expenditure. I want to stress here that people can also help themselves. The Riigikogu adopted amendments to the Electricity Market Act, which give electricity sellers the opportunity to enter into long-term contracts with people so that they can bring this price down at fixed prices. I suggest that in the summer, when prices are lower, people fix their prices so that next autumn they don't survive this stress. It is, in a sense, like an insurance against [price] not crossing a certain line. In any case, the state is trying to help, but people should help themselves as much as possible, just so that everyone can do it. And indeed, the reserve that we have provided for in the supplementary budget is actually about helping those who are in this very vulnerable group, i.e. pensioners, also families with children, to cope with increasing spending in the coming heating period.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U80	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U81	Let's move on to question seven. It is presented by Aivar Kokk, member of the Riigikogu, corresponding to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas, and the topic is the energy economy. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I hope that you, Taavi, will make it clear to the Prime Minister that he could ask gas suppliers for what price gas would offer tomorrow. I can tell you that no seller is making that deal today. And speaking of the price of electricity, the price of electricity is at least twice as high as it was a year ago. So this [fixing] isn't helping. But I have a question about Elering's indecision and stupidity. One cable was made from Latvia, which increased the price of electricity in Estonia. Both the Finnish network company and Elering earned over 100 million each year. What is your idea, as Elering's owner, of what they do with the money that was taken out of our people's pockets? Actually, if this cable tip hadn't been made to Latvia, that wouldn't be the price of electricity. We could have consumed this Finnish electricity ourselves in Estonia and did so at the same price. I saw that in March more than 5 million euros have been taken from our pockets again. This is indecision and Elering's inability to analyse [because]. I see the next plan is to make Latvia's new cable before Finland. These are billions of investments. Perhaps it would be necessary to invest in wind farms and to give the Ministry of Economic Affairs the opportunity [to do], for example, to offer less wind farms, the energy supply that today's investors expect in order to mitigate the risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U83	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U84	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! Elering's investments and money, which Elering earns in many ways or virtually all of these investments, are linked to the synchronisation of [our electricity network] with the European electricity grid and the desynchronousisation of Russia's [network]. I think that the decision to initiate the synchronization has been very correct once. I know that, in the meantime, there were doubts about this decision, especially at the moment when electricity prices in Europe, including us, went very high. In today's situation, after 24 February, I think, it is once again that no one is questioning this decision. The investments that need to be made in this synchronising process are really high. Fortunately, a lot has been done. And today we dare say that, in the event of extraordinary events, if there is some kind of emergency decryption from the BRELL network, we will be able to maintain our own system within a few hours. True, with Latvia and Lithuania. It's gonna be expensive, but we can do it. All the connections that Elering has recently created, including the same additional link with Latvia, are still working towards ensuring that we can synchronise ourselves with the European Union and that security of energy supply, as well as security of electricity supply, is guaranteed. When it comes to the instruments derived from cable transmission and the price difference between Finland and Estonia, these funds are divided equally between Elering and her Finnish partner. These instruments can only be used to create additional interconnection capacities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U85	And now the point to be clarified. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U86	Thank you. One question I didn't answer, but I had a very long questionnaire. Let me remind you of that question. For the past two years, officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs have been preparing a less bid for wind energy. When's this gonna happen? We haven't built a wind farm in ten years. The Founders are private investors and they want some kind of confidence. I do have an understanding that certain officials do not serve the interests of the Estonian state, because today, if there is a peak load of 1650 megawatts and we ourselves produce 1000, plus the gas is 2200 megawatts, and somewhere in the Ministry's rooms are people who are slowing down, I would ask whether this is the right thing or not. We paid 180 million in peace last year to ordinary citizens, and I think this year's no less overload fee for Elering. Perhaps it is that you have officials in the ministry who are also on Elering's council, and the spouses of these people are working there. There are brakes somewhere on it, and it's actually very dangerous to national security.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U87	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U88	Yes, thank you! At first, I did not notice that a good questioner asked about less supply of wind farms. But what I can tell you about this is that one less bid for 450 gigawatts has been announced. If I remember correctly, the final date for this offer is either 1 June or 1 July. We have agreed that the next offer, which is 650 gigawatts in size, will be launched at the beginning of next year. It was not on 1 January, but on the first working day of next year. Then we'll announce it. Those decisions have been made. The second offer has also been prepared and there are no failures.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U89	And now for an additional question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U90	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. What about the 1000 megawatts, has this commitment been extended? And has Russia's [network] desynchronousisation taken any action in this light?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U91	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U92	Thank you. Yes, this obligation to keep the electricity generation capacity of 1000 MW in reserve has been extended. As far as Russia's [network] desynchronousisation is concerned, a number of things have been done for this. As mentioned earlier, additional connections to the south are [created]. There are synchronisers in the establishment that will help us maintain the frequency. Unfortunately, we have always taken into account this graph that de-synchronising from Russia and synchronising with the European Union will take place in 2025. According to this, the work is planned not only in Estonia, but in all three Baltic countries. It is not possible to bring much of these investments forward. But on the other hand, there's also a very clear plan for B, so if anything happens, we can do it. We've come so far that if anything happens to the BRELL network, we can do it. That's right, it's gonna cost a lot, but we're gonna make it. One part of this project is also keeping Eesti Energia boilers running in order to maintain the frequency of the network through them. But here you just have to take into account that this capacity is not needed all the time as such a network, but to maintain the frequency, it's really what makes this process expensive. In addition, Latvian and Lithuanian gas stations need to operate to maintain the network's frequency, which in turn makes this whole process very expensive. But it's necessary to maintain the frequency. So [one-ten] is done. It's been good since 2025, but it's going to require a lot of investment. Fortunately, we have a great deal of European Union resources to help.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U93	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U94	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by Indrek Saar, a member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the subject is sanctions against Russian doctors. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U95	The question, however, is about artists. [[The manager apologizes for the mistake.]] Prime Minister! I am forced to continue the subject that Üllar Saaremäe already started in this Question Time, because I did not actually get an answer, and so did Üllar [our] conversation. What is the government going to do? The problem is very serious, it has been brought to the attention in very different ways. We know the problem is upstairs. We can talk about the responsibility of the citizen and that everyone has to contribute and that is what people do, but the fact is that a week ago the band Ruki Vverh was performing in Tallinn, and if we do not do something about it, maybe he will also be performing on our victory day, 23 June on the beach of Narva-Jõesuuu. These are artists who happily played on the anniversary of the annexation of Crimea at Luzhniki Stadium for Putin's joy. It is the duty of the State to impose an entry ban under the law, it is the duty of the Government, as well as the imposition of international sanctions. What are you going to do now as Prime Minister? From the Foreign Minister's answer, I understand he's not going to do anything. At least the written [speakers] and also the radio broadcasts in which he has been performing, I understand that he really does not have any will to do anything about this at national level. So I'm asking you for an answer in time and as Prime Minister, what you intend to do in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U96	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U97	Thank you. I repeat, I will try to be very brief, maybe I spoke too long and [the thought] was lost. First of all, none of Putin's friends and supporters are welcome in Estonia. The war is very black and white, the supporters of the war, the supporters of the aggressor are not welcome in Estonia. Tomorrow we will have a debate at the Cabinet, where we will discuss what we can do in this case. For our part, we are doing everything in order to ensure that those who justify the Putin War, those who justify the Putin regime, those who justify the aggression, have no business in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U98	The question to be specified. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U99	Once again, as Prime Minister, do you think and act to ensure that those public opinion leaders who are not qualified as oligarchs, but who have chosen our opponents in the same way as public opinion leaders in the war, are listed as sanctioned? And are you going to explain [the following] to the Minister of Foreign Affairs? We are in a situation where we allow the Ukrainians [sanctions]. You met again this morning with a delegation from the Ukrainian Parliament, just as I did a few hours ago as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. They are very asking us to stand for the sanctions that will be agreed in Europe to be applied and for them to be as effective and effective as possible. Are you going to propose to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in this context, that little of the fact that we ourselves include on the list of sanctions people who have unequivocally supported Russia's aggression in Ukraine could we also propose this at European Union level? But for that, we must be able to rule out situations at home that I have just described before, where, unfortunately, we can [do nothing but] just lay out our hands and say that, well, maybe our people are not responsible enough and how the concert organiser let such an ensemble perform here. Do you plan to include such artists on the list of sanctioned artists and could it also be an initiative of the Minister of Foreign Affairs at European level?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U100	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U101	Thank you. Once again, I think that such a list should be, and if it is necessary to do so by a decision of the government, we will do so by a decision of the government. That's right. As far as the list of sanctions in the European Union is concerned, we have added more and more people who are sanctioned, and we have constantly done so to make sanctions stronger, because as long as there is a Putin war in Ukraine, we have not done enough. Now, as far as performers are concerned, of course, they must realise that they want to come to countries where they have an audience. Perhaps I think that this is more of a problem for countries with Russian-speaking audiences who also know these artists. Therefore, this may not be a pan-European problem. But in any case, this problem could actually be raised by the Minister of Culture or the Minister of Foreign Affairs in general. And I'm still not going back on what I said. The government will, of course, do what the government has to do. But I also say that we all have a role to play in society, a role to play. This [what the government does or does not do] does not rule out the responsibility of all others to set their own moral compasses in order to understand what in this case, under the conditions of war, it is very black and white is right to do. I still think that [must] be done as those companies did in Russia that did not go under sanctions. They understood that this was wrong and stopped operating in Russia without being told by the state. But once again, by saying all this, we are doing what we, the government, are doing. With government decisions, we do what is our competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U102	Now for an additional question, Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U103	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! To conclude on this issue, I wonder if you will shed light on the differences between [our] possibilities and, for example, Latvia, which has specifically listed several Russian artists as persona non grata, brought them out by name in the media. How different is this compared to Estonia? Do we have any obstacles ahead of us to do the same, to inform the public about one, the other and the third artist, an athlete, a writer for my sake, or a philosopher?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U104	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U105	Thank you. I'm not sure I understood your question exactly. I don't know all the rules in Latvia. We can rely on our own laws, on the decisions we make here. Of course, we can establish a list of people who are not welcome in Estonia. This can be done at government level. Local authorities can also do this if they do not just grant permits for certain events. And like I said, everyone has a role to play. But if you want me to bring out some specific names, that's definitely not what I'm going to do right now, because I don't have it in front of the list.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U106	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U107	Let us move on to question nine. It is presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, met by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the topic is additional budget priorities. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U108	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! There are people presently in Estonia in the light of different information: very well informed people are members of the government; well informed people are probably coalition ambassadors; less informed people are opposition ambassadors, well, I dare say so; at the moment the question is about social democracy; and people who read newspapers. In general, opposition ambassadors and people reading the newspaper are on the same level of information. Today's [Estonia] Päevaleht is very nicely written that the additional budget provides security security and supports Estonian families and refugees. Now I'm going to use one quote here, and there's going to be a question. This question is not such that not only the Social Democrats know the answer to it, but also very many other Estonian people do not know the answer to it, because they have addressed us as ambassadors and also asked this question at meetings. The quote is as follows: "Since the price increase of energy carriers and the situation caused by the war will significantly increase the prices of essential goods, the Centre Party's desire to support all children and pensioners in the autumn went through. If the wish was to pay EUR 100 as a one-off grant, it did not receive approval in general, but 50 additional euros can be taken into account for each child and pensioner in the autumn. " This sentence is said by Jaanus Kariliid for the newspaper article that was published today in the Eesti Päevaleht. And now comes my question. You are talking, and today you were talking about the support of a single-living pensioner. We all know they're retired people. But we also have people who are partially or completely disabled and are not people of retirement age. Does this grant, the same EUR 50 that is mentioned, concern them, or is this one-off subsidy intended for [only] children and old-age pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U109	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U110	Thank you. First of all, the problem with this extra budget is that the numbers may change, and then we are about to be charged here in the Riigikogu that something has gone wrong and we have lied. This is not intentional, and that is why we want to make sure that all the calculations match before we come up with these things. Of course, we have also taken into account what the Social Democrats have pointed out here. You yourself have repeatedly emphasised that income support must be increased, and that raising income support in this additional budget is indeed included, rising from EUR 150 to EUR 200. If the Riigikogu is able to adopt this [additional budget] quickly, the increase in income support could take effect the next month after the adoption of the additional budget and give people immediate assistance. As regards the allocation of funds for additional support measures to the reserve, it has indeed been put in place to ensure that in the autumn, when energy sources are likely to become difficult again, additional support can be foreseen or given to those who are most vulnerable. We have also taken into account what was going on last time with energy prices or subsidies. Energy subsidies helped a large number of people, precisely those with median wages, when we are talking about a targeted measure. In fact, [they] helped all Estonian people who went and benefited from this general measure. It is our desire to target this measure in the autumn precisely for those most vulnerable, and these conditions are not in place at the moment. There has really been talk about the target group of pensioners and there has been talk about children, but it will be in the autumn. We will then be able to clarify these conditions so that those most vulnerable will receive help.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U111	And now the point to be clarified. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U112	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! In fact, I did not get an answer, because in planning the budget and coming out with an additional budget, you have had to take a number [based]. The number of retirement pensioners is quite different from [this number], including those people who have lost their full capacity to work or who have lost part of their capacity to work and who regard their income as a pension as well. You spoke of support for energy cost compensation. Is the EUR 50 paid aid for compensation for energy [costs] or are these two different measures? In the spring, you spoke very thoroughly about how a large number of people are entitled to energy cost reimbursement support. But this figure turned out to be much smaller. I asked whether the problem was not that those who could receive this support would not have to apply for it, because they are embarrassed or they do not know that they are [are] entitled to receive it, or that [are] worried about those who actually do not need it on the basis of income, because they are paid a flat-rate payment. Which is the bigger problem? I understand that the number of people who could have received support from your information turned out to be quite smaller. I still have a question. We know that the benefit of a single-living pensioner, which you are talking about, concerns only those people of retirement age who are according to the register [living alone]. You've talked about this thoroughly, that's understandable. But what is the planned support for those who [are not] old-age pensioners or children, this is the second figure, but those who are absent or unable to work? The government, of course, must be commended for the fact that, when the Social Democrats proposed in the autumn that the subsistence limit be raised from EUR 150 to EUR 200 at the beginning of this year, it is now being done. But this aid would have been needed as of 1 January. It would have been easier for people to cope with these high heating costs. Continued: have you also planned for people with special needs who are not in retirement age to receive this allowance, be it 50 or 60 euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U113	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U114	Thank you. We have planned for [beneficiary] pensioners; I do not have these conditions here. We have aimed at this because these reproaches, which were also on your side, [were counted]. Indeed, pensioners in general are in this risk group, they need this help more, and therefore there will be no additional application for them. What you also criticised, why this support was not used as much as it could have been used, I will specify and come back to you. I don't have that information on me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U115	Additional question, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you for your support for the solitary pensioner initiated by the Fatherland Party, and this support will increase in the autumn of this year. But I didn't see an important line in the extra budget. The Fatherland Party has proposed: since the most difficult situation at the moment is still connected with electricity, gas and domestic heat, we have proposed to reduce VAT to 9%. If we compare the price of the year and today's price, [we can see that] 9% VAT would also give the state much more revenue than would have been achieved by 20% last year. When you made the extra budget, did you have this discussion on the table for a moment that the Ministry of Finance estimates it to be 75 million minus? Today for four months, 250 million have been calculated to compensate people for their energy costs. Perhaps then people should not go to the municipality to trade and talk, but would have received more normal electricity, gas and heat bills and supported today's coalition with an even greater percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U117	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U118	Thank you. Of course, we discussed all kinds of solutions. I guess it has both pros and cons. I am just saying that when we discuss the problems of rising energy prices at the European Council, for example, the prime ministers there say that you see, we have done a cut in excise duty, but people feel nothing, because the increase is high and the fall is small. In addition, the fact that in fact the undertakings cannot in any way be forced to pass on this [excise cut] price. Well, that's where the considerations are. The first is that we want everyone to be able to help themselves, and the second is that people can actually cope with rising prices. The third is, of course, what we can do to slow down the rise in prices. I do not mean here that there is no way to regulate prices, because the market has still brought us lower prices for a very long time. But [we need to think] how is it possible to hedge risks in such a way that in fact energy, which is a very large input for everyone and what everyone must use, is affordable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U119	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U120	We've been through all the registered issues. Thanks for that. We have 16 to 17 minutes left until the end of Question Time. Now I ask everyone who wants to ask to register, and I have, good colleagues, a request to you that you immediately tell which member of the government you are asking, and then ask your question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U121	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to ask Minister for Justice, Maris Lauri, not to waste the day and not to sit for two hours without any questions. I ask you how the new system for determining maintenance has been implemented and whether there have been any concerns about it. The paper said that this calculator and calculation caused problems for families. Maybe you'll talk about it in a few words.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U122	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U123	Thank you. Being in the Riigikogu is never useless. Fortunately, in addition to the useful opportunity to listen to what interests members of the Riigikogu, it is also possible to do your [other] work and read. But when I come to your question, I can generally say that this law has been applied very nicely. Of course, there were a great many questions both in advance and at the moment of the so-called transition. The confusion and problems may have been caused by the fact that the explanatory memorandum unfortunately retained an explanation that does not correspond to the content of the law. There was a mistake in it, and it has caused confusion, but the calculator corresponds to the substance of the law. We have explained this at every opportunity, and people have understood it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U124	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U125	Good manager! I'd like to ask the Prime Minister. Honourable Sire! Yesterday, a report was published by the Kiel Institute for the World Economy, which clearly shows that the fact that [Estonian] Daysheet called you a war princess is absolutely true. In a month Estonia has supported Ukraine financially as much as Italy and Sweden and more than Canada. If you look at GDP, I have it ahead of me now, then [we can see that] Estonia has supported Ukraine in the first month with 0.8% of GDP. It's all military assistance. It's marked with red. The United States is the sixth largest of [share] GDP and Germany is the 12th largest, the second is Poland, the third is Lithuania, the fourth is Slovakia and the fifth is Sweden. My question is whether it is too much or whether there is a plan to increase [the subsidy] further. Are you not concerned that Estonia is so unbalanced [compared] with other countries, including Russia's neighbours? Latvia is nowhere to know how far away.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U126	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U127	Thank you. Our defences are now beginning in Ukraine. Everything we use in Ukraine is actually for our own protection, because the Ukrainians are fighting Russia. Russia is our greatest threat. Putin has in no way concealed his ambitions towards other countries in the neighbourhood, including us. So any help that we give so that Ukraine can win this war means that we will ensure peace here. Yeah, we've given a lot, and we can't give much more. We have also told the Ukrainians that we have done what we can. We can still do it by talking to our great allies. There are certainly still things in their warehouses that they can give to Ukraine - large countries have capabilities that we do not have at all - and all so that this war will end. There is no way that Putin will win this war or get the impression from himself or Russia that Putin has won this war, because in that case, we would just have a one-two-year break and all these ugly things would go on again. The aid that we are giving to Ukraine is to end this war. And this war can only end if Ukraine wins Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U128	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U129	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! Of course, I do not share Peeter Ernits' concern that we have given too much aid to Ukraine. Surely we must set an example and do all that is needed to win the war in Ukraine. But I'm gonna ask you about the thing that scratched my ear the most in the last hour and a half. By answering Jaak Juske's question, I don't know if you didn't understand the core of the question. The changes made to the income tax system four years ago are in no way wrong or erroneous or errors that need to be corrected. The EUR 500 tax-free minimum made our tax system fairer, has helped low-wage earners to cope and have motivated [more] to work and there is no need to improve or change it. The question is this hunch that was built there because the Isamaa Party is allergic to the concept of progressive income tax, but this allergic is shared by the Reform Party. So the change in the tax system has been purposeful, in fact, has helped to achieve the change that was wanted to be implemented, but the technical design has been cumbersome. I agree that this is unreasonable and that it is possible to improve the technical solution, but [it can be done] in fact without reducing justice in the system. At the same time, just as children's allowance of EUR 19 and 18 cents was just in the way of time, there has also been a tax-free minimum. The fact that the average pension and the minimum wage are exempt from income tax is, in my opinion, a choice of value. It is right that we support working and managing ourselves, rather than paying subsidies. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I am very sorry that, under conditions of rapid price increases, this proposal has not received wider support. I do not have such a question, as it was a comment on the fact that it is actually wrong to treat changes to the income tax system as a mistake that was made four years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U130	A good member of the Riigikogu, your time! Prime Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U131	Thank you. Good Riina, that's an ideological argument. We have always been advocates of a simple and clear tax system with one [and the same] percentage, which in absolute terms means that whoever earns more will pay more. If you make less money, you pay less. So there is no right or wrong [in the position] here, but there are different ideological approaches that we represent as Social Democrat and I as Liberal. What we absolutely agree on is that it is rather necessary to promote people's livelihoods through greater incomes, or that we tax highly not what people earn as wages, but actually something else. If we come to the system that was made in 2016, we will see that these thousand steps made this system difficult. That is why he is now in the way of time and why we have criticised this system from the beginning. We are in completely different positions and we will not convince each other, no matter how much we hold this debate. I think this is the whole [convergence], we have different concepts and different approaches. I think it is good to give people the opportunity to cope without having to receive any subsidies, because it is not sustainable. So, yes, at this point in time, we should encourage more service. I think that a greater discussion could be about what we are taxing at all before the next elections. If the principle of taxation is that you don't tax what you want to let develop, then the question arises as to why we are now taxing the most highly employed. In fact, we want people to have jobs, and we want people to get paid well. But if we know that social tax is a tax that brings a great deal of revenue to the state budget, and that is a tax that is easy to collect, the question immediately arises where these revenues come from. So, in fact, I think we should look at this picture more comprehensively, not only to talk about a single tax percentage, but to see why we are taxing, what we are taxing, and how highly we are taxing, and what a change we want to achieve in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U132	I will conclude on this issue. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U133	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs. We were talking earlier about less wind power supply. This amount, for which this small offer is upstairs, you are really right. We would need this year, I think, to take into account the electricity deficit and the cost of gas, to announce at least 1 terawatt-hours [for procurement] immediately, and at the beginning of January next year, as you proposed, the next [offer] could be of the same order of magnitude. Then maybe in three, four, five years, it would be a situation if we weren't in the ceiling and we were enough. But I also have a question. I have proposed that such an easy measure be possible. [It is now that] when companies put their solar panels on, they can charge VAT back, but if a natural person does, he can't. Perhaps it could be discussed that domestic consumers could receive up to 15 kilos of solar panels with a storage device without VAT, so that they would not have to pay VAT on this investment. This year, there have been five windstorms where the lines have come together. [in the case of solar panels] we shouldn't put so much money on the lines and people would get more favourable electricity bills. Nor should these procurements be made, as was the 8 million-dollar call announced in April by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications for a similar thing, when everyone rushed and [essential] were quick fingers, but then it would be that anyone who can and wants to invest would invest. It would also be treated equally with economic operators. Otherwise, your home should be made a company to get your VAT back, but I don't think that's the best solution. How do you feel about this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U134	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U135	Thank you. I'd start with that auction. That one sharp, yeah, sounds proud, of course, but our goals are actually two. One thing is that we get wind farms to build windmills. However, the second objective is that the support paid for the construction of windmills is as low as possible, because it comes from the pockets of all consumers. We are all paying for this renewable energy charge. So the smaller we get this support, the better. That is why these less bids are divided into two parts. On the one hand, so that those who are prepared more quickly can come forward more quickly. On the other hand, so that we do not place a very large volume on the market at the same time, which may lead to providers not offering as favourable solutions as in the case of smaller volumes. In other words, if there is a large volume in the market at the same time, it is clear that bidders can provide better conditions. Now for the VAT refund. We're dealing with an advantage from the one who installs the solar panels on the roof. And here I agree, I very much support the fact that solar panels are in private houses, are in production sites, so I think it is right that solar panels are close to the point of consumption. [Refund of VAT] is an advantage. Today we have gone another way, this benefit is granted through KredEx, and one measure is still open today. In the first few days, it was a really big rush, but now it's gotten smaller. At present, it is actually possible to obtain funds from this measure. It is about installing solar panels in a private house with some part of the renovation of the building, because it is more sensible to make the most sustainable use of the energy produced by the panels when solar panels are installed. The [Application] round is still open, it is possible to receive support. In addition, additional funds will come from the additional budget, as mentioned, EUR 19 million to support small-scale solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U136	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Question to Kaja Kallas. At the beginning of today's sitting, I asked you that your Minister, Kalle Laane, has tried to influence me through family ties: I have to stop asking about Mali, otherwise my son is doing badly in the service. I asked if you'd spoken to Kalle Laanet. You replied that you have not spoken because, first, you have no reason to believe me and, second, you have no interest in dealing with the problems between us. The question is that Kalle Laane has acknowledged the existence of this conversation and has partly spoken the truth and some have failed to mention it. I do not understand right now in the sense that why you do not take an interest in this, in possible problems where your ministers basically interfere with the work of members of the Riigikogu. This is not a personal issue, a personal problem, it is a very wrong idea, because here ministers are interfering with the functioning of government administration. Clearly, this problem is being put under the rug. If you do not condemn it, I do not want condemnation, unless you go to speak to Kalle Laantet on this subject and give an answer, then you actually support the behaviour of public officials that do not coincide with the governance of a democratic state. May I ask, where is your moral compass that you've been talking about all the time today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U138	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U139	Thank you. Once again, I stress that I am not interested in your conversations, that they should remain conversations between you and him.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U140	I will conclude on this issue. Dear colleagues, thank you for your questions. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U141	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 12th working week session of the VII plenary session on Wednesday. And now it's possible to hand over drafts and inquiries. Please! You don't see that wish. Then we'll conduct a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U142	77 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U143	We will begin the review of today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other Acts Act 521. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, so we can go to the proposal of the lead committee, which is to hold the final vote of 521 SEs. And since we've just carried out the presence check, I assume it's okay to go to the hall if we go to the vote. No objections. Therefore, honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related other laws 521. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U144	With a result of 67 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 0 abstentions, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U145	Our second item is draft 585 on the amendment of the Penal Code and Code of Misdemeanour Procedure (support for aggression) initiated by the Isamaa Group and the Government of the Republic, previously numbered 556 and 576, but now combined is 585 SE, second reading. I would like to ask the Riigikogu to speak on behalf of the Legal Committee Marek Jürgenson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly give an overview of what happened in the lead committee before the second reading of draft 585. On 21 March the Isamaa Group initiated a draft law supplementing the Penal Code 556 and a little later, on 4 April the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure 576. In essence, then, support for aggression and related hostilities. Both drafts are...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U147	I'm sorry for a second. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are any conversations between you and me, they can be held outside the hall. It's gonna get really big again. Please, Mr. Jürgenson!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U148	Thank you. Both drafts were driven by the Russian Federation's attack on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. The amendments sought to ban the support and justification of an act of aggression, genocide, crime against humanity or war crime by means of internationally widespread insignia. The Legal Affairs Committee asked for opinions on the draft 556 from the Bar Association, the Defence Police, the PPA, the Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court, the Chancellor of Justice and the University of Tartu. Both drafts passed the first reading on 13 April of this year. The deadline for amendments was 18 April and no amendments were tabled from the Riigikogu. On 14 April, the Ministry of Justice sent a letter to the Committee on Legal Affairs with amendments to draft 576. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the draft initiated by the Isamaa Group 556 and the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic for the first reading at the extraordinary session on 7 April. At the same meeting, the Commission decided that, once the first reading of drafts 576 and 556 has been completed, the drafts would be merged by drafting one text on the basis of the wording of drafts 576 initiated by the Government of the Republic, thus including the objective proposed in drafts 556. The number of the draft was then 585 SE. After the completion of the first reading of both drafts, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided at its extraordinary session on 14 April to refer the draft to second reading by 20 April, i.e. today and, if the second reading of the draft is closed, to refer the draft to plenary by 21 April, i.e. tomorrow, and then to hold the final vote on the draft. Another debate to prepare the reading of draft 585 took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 18 April, even after the deadline for tabling amendments had passed. The Committee on Legal Affairs consensually initiated a draft of 585 amendments, the Ministry of Justice, in which the draft was given a new title and the text was specified. At the meetings of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Prosecutor's Office, the PBA, as well as the co-professor of penal law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu, Anneli Soo, Head of the Department of Penal Law, and sworn advocates Carri Ginter and Norman Aas took part in the discussions on the draft order 576 and 556. A little of the content of this amendment. The proposal was initiated by consensus by the Committee on Legal Affairs. It combines the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the draft law initiated by the Isamaa Group 556 and, pursuant to § 101 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, one draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure has been drawn up on the basis of the wording of the draft law initiated by the Government of the Republic. With the agreement of the originators, the drafts are combined due to overlaps in the scope. The amendment gives the draft a new title: the law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure (support for aggression). In comparison with the text passed through the first reading of draft 576 in its amended form, subsections 1, 2 and 3 of § 1 of the draft are redrafted. Paragraph 3 "Entry into force of the Act' also changes. Paragraph 1 (3) and § 2 of the Act shall enter into force on the day following publication in the Official Journal of the State, i.e. as soon as possible. The text of § 2 of the draft law "amending the Code of Fine Procedure" has not been amended and is the same as that which was reported at the first reading of the draft law 576. I would like to conclude here by stressing that at all the meetings of the Commission where these drafts were discussed, even then with the number 585, all decisions were taken in a consensual manner. All the political parties in Parliament represented in the Committee on Legal Affairs were in agreement on each issue, so this whole procedure went very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U149	You have questions too. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U150	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Marek! You are well aware of this law, the two attached laws, what it says. Help me out a little bit, I haven't worked them out myself. Yesterday I had a school group here, and a young man asked if Georgi's tape could be used or not. So I told him what I knew. But now I'm asking you, is this allowed or not allowed to be used in public space? Say it!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U151	Yeah, according to this bill, you can't use Georgi's tape. But a lot has been said about the so-called practitioners, the police. In fact, the principle of reasonableness must also apply to police work. If some great-aunt has Georgi's tape in her chest, she will be interviewed, no more stringent measures will be taken immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U152	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Paragraph 1511 "Support and justification of an international crime" here states that public display of the symbol associated with the act of aggression, genocide, crime against humanity or the commission of war crimes can be punished. But I see here a serious deficiency in the fact that concepts such as "act of aggression," "genocide," "criminal crime against humanity" are also listed as criminal offences in the special part of the Penal Code. This means that if a person were to be punished on this basis, there would have to be some kind of judgment in advance that would indicate a breach of that rule. My question is now: please state the act of aggression, genocide, the crime against humanity, [in which case] we have a judgment to that effect that we can apply this rule on 9 May, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U154	Thank you. I can tell you if there is such a verdict, I don't know. But if we look at the law that we intend to adopt tomorrow, I believe that, in cooperation with practitioners and experts, he is now so approved that he will be able to approach all the different acts universally.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U155	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U156	Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable waitress! I'll take it from there, which was also the Kalvi Tough question. Yesterday, I watched such a great show as "Just with Elo" and there was the Minister of the Interior, Jaani, who also could not directly answer the question of whether Georg's tape might or may not come out on 9 May. And there was also Andrus Ansip, who pointed out that, in the current situation, the government's messages should be clear. Now, on today's news, I read that the police had to specifically prohibit the organisation of events using hostile symbols until 10 May, which suggests that the law that we are dealing with today is not quite enough for the police to guarantee public order and the dignity of the Estonian state. Then what is it? How can it be that, in fact, very simple, clear questions come from this hall, whether or not you can do something, you also answer that, well, you can't, but maybe when it comes to an elderly person, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U157	Thank you. There is a great difference between presenting symbolism and aggressive presentation. I watched the show last night briefly, and there were a lot of emotions written in it. But in today's news, Minister of the Interior Jaani said very clearly that until May 10th there will be a zero tolerance. A very correct approach, in my opinion. But whether or not we have discussed quite a lot about the fact that this law is somewhat more universal than what I think was adopted yesterday in the Lithuanian Parliament on the subject of symbolism and which is already in force in Latvia. In this sense, I think that this law, which has now been developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and other parties, is somewhat softer. I think it's a little more human.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U158	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! When we had this first reading, the question arose repeatedly that it was possible to interpret this draft and these norms in such a way that it could also prohibit or remove various constructional [symbols], such as the Narva tank. That was the interpretation of Members. Now, the Minister said that yes, it can be interpreted in this way, but that was not the intention at the time of drafting the draft. Now you have had a second reading in that committee, or before that, did the Commission discuss this issue further in order to interpret it? Can it also be applied to monuments, or can it still not be applied to monuments, how did the thought remain?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U160	Thank you. In essence, every time there has been a question of symbolism in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the very subject of buildings and monuments has been under discussion, but this bill does not go directly against the so-called Narva tank. We might as well say that we have a pattern of Stalinist construction architecture next to the Stockmann department store in Tallinn, and therefore we are not going to remove this so-called symbol. I think we're going to survive this 9th of May, see how this must be a relatively emotional and difficult period. Those tanks and other monuments are probably coming back at some point. If necessary, a clear message must be given as to whether the tank in Narva is now in the right place or not. Maybe it should be somewhere in a museum or some other place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U161	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U162	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! We really had the same debate upstairs, what to do with historical cases. This history is in front of us all the time, and these monuments are inspiring to praise aggression, Soviet aggression against Estonia, and also to support the genocide that it brought with it. So the Narva tank is a very specific thing. And they're on the move, these symbols. [This bill] is not universal. You're always talking about this 9th of May. If this is the law of one anniversary, then 9 May will be repeated next year too, and there will be many others. If we don't get this universality in, he won't be very useful. In my opinion, it should be directed more seriously to history. So what did this debate look like? I thought it was stuck in the air. They just didn't know how to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U163	Thank you, good Anti! You were there on the committee and you raised that topic yourself. We also had Markus Kärner, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Justice. I think it kind of stayed hanging in the air, but in fact, he said very clearly that if there is a need, they will come back to this issue, but not within the framework of this draft, in the context of the procedure that we are currently going through. So I'm still gonna wait a little while. And I'm not just talking about 9th of May, I told you in advance in this key to review the whole year. I really hope that the next few weeks will be emotionally easier, that there will be no provocations at the bronze soldier's place or in Narva by the tank. I really hope so. However, I believe that in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have always had the opportunity to talk about the subject in relation to the situation on other issues. Dear colleague, we may be able to come back to this issue, let us see.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U164	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U165	Thank you. Honourable waitress! It seems to me that you've got things mixed up in that committee like mush and cabbages. Now you said that until May 10th there's a zero tolerance. Could this mean that on May 11, the Soviet flags and Georgi tapes could come to the street, I don't know, Filter on the road or Toompea, and nothing will happen? I simply do not understand that if the Government wishes to ban something, why not come here to the Riigikogu with a bill that would actually prohibit something that is wanted to be banned. Why come here before the Riigikogu with a bill that leaves a lot of room for interpretation is confusing? It is difficult for the police to implement, among other things, and it is likely to create a number of disputes in the future. Is it that somehow you ran out of courage halfway, or did one coalition partner not want to go quite as far as it should be in the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U166	Well, Raimond, you've got it all wrong. Maybe I should have listened a little more attentively to what I said earlier. The question was what Kristian Jaani has said today in the media. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have things in order in this respect. There is also the representative of your group, Heljo Pikhof, I believe he can assure you of this after a private conversation. We don't have any idea that after 10 May we can come and that God knows what flags to wave. I just quoted this Postimees news where the Minister of the Interior said that in his eyes and according to the Ministry's decision, there is a zero tolerance. I was talking about this, not the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U167	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Personally, it seems to me that, with regard to this amendment to the law on supporting and justifying international crime with symbols, you are turning the situation into a situation where people cannot be punished at all. Here's Georgi's tape, and I don't know what symbolism, Z. The reason is very simple. The fact is that, as it relates to genocide and crimes against humanity, it requires that it be established by means of a judicial procedure which we do not currently have [had] or, at least, you could not present [the examples]. And I can't imagine how it's going to be implemented. But there's a way out. There's a military propaganda that's been used right now. Perhaps, after all, you will withdraw this bill and it will be clarified a little bit. In its present form, it is too bad and it does not achieve its objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U169	Thank you, my good colleague. I don't share your opinion. I think the bill is very good. On the other hand, watching as practitioners have done their work, how changes have been introduced to date, really, this universal tool will help the police to get better at carrying out these procedures, and they will be better placed to rely on something. Yes, there is § 262 in the Penal Code, which allows the police to intervene now, but the question is still that the police need the power of the law not to be merely creative. I think this is a very good bill. As I said earlier, all the practitioners and experts involved have also supported it and contributed to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U170	Paul Puustumaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Marek! I will first tell you that there is one good thing: the EKRE has already submitted a draft that should touch the structural and monumental symbols. But now I want to make a complaint to you that you still did a great deal of harm to Raimond Kaljulaid. By the way, Kalvi Tõvi also pointed out the same principle, stressing that there is too much creativity in this draft. We in the Riigikogu, the smart men-women we're here together, can't understand these concepts. Why is the law made in such a way as to try to heal teeth through the abdominal cavity? There are direct, straight roads. Very strong lawyers, including the former Chancellor of Justice, have stressed that we need concreteness in this law so that we do not spread out. At this point, we've spread out. Did you not consider the wording of this draft in such a simple and understandable way that there would not be a question of whether or not Georg could wear ribbons or whether or not he could use the flag? Why didn't you make it more specific?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U172	Thank you. I was talking earlier about how Latvia and Lithuania have gone. I was very specific in Lithuania, in some ways even harsher than in Latvia, by letters: Z, V and so on. I know that in Lithuania there was the Ministry of the Interior, and the Committee on Legal and Law Enforcement there is such a name that this committee was in a great war of words with each other. It was the Lithuanian Ministry of the Interior that wanted [Parliament] to go with the same bill as we have on this table today, but it was the Committee on Legal and Law Enforcement that wanted [these letters]. But it's already become clear that if there's more Xs and Os and As, they're gonna have to start supplementing that law. That's a problem later. I think that a flexible approach is much more sensible. As I emphasised earlier, there was still a consensus in the Commission on this. Yes, with regard to the subject of monuments, you have presented it, and we will certainly deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U173	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, the flexible interpretation of this draft also lives fully in the public space. It is already possible to read from the media that residence permits are withdrawn on this basis or could be like a minimum. Did the Commission deal with this issue in any way? Or the other way around, what the law enforcement say: do they rather expect a very clearly defined legal space on this issue, or do they precisely see that this flexibility in interpretation is necessary? We could just at one point be in a situation where no one really understands exactly what is now or isn't. What sense do you have in the proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U175	This issue of residence permits was said yesterday by Andrus Ansip that this approach should be taken. I am not going to be [specify] here, I have a whole package of these protocols, I would just take a lot of time, but I don't remember exactly, it might have been Anti Pool Office, I might be wrong, maybe it was Tarmo Kruusimäe who asked how it was possible today that a person living in Estonia based on a residence permit had, in the meantime, joined the so-called aggression party in Ukraine in the war and wished to return to Estonia. So, what do you like to do? Basically, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri answered this question [who said] that it is possible to find a reason today not to allow this person to return to the country, so that he will not come to Estonia again. That was the subject, yes. But this law can actually be punished. These are a little different things, but yes, that was the issue discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U176	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U177	Thank you. I didn't quite understand the example you gave me about this older lady. If they talk to him, but he doesn't take Georgi's tape off his chest, what do the police do next? But my question is real life, people have asked me that. Since you probably played through the border situations that may occur in real life when you dealt with the law in the Committee on Legal Affairs, my question is, how is this law going to be? If a boy runs around playing Zorro and draws Zorro marks on the asphalt, is it prohibited before 9 May and is it allowed after that? I understand it's kind of easier to interpret these things. And until May 9, should TTJA for instance prohibit the display of "Zorro" film, because it uses a lot of Z symbolism, and after that you can [show again]? What do you think came up with an understanding of these border situations in the Committee on Legal Affairs? So what does this law propose now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U178	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, if a child [plays] Zorro and a law enforcement officer responds to it and talks to the child and asks why you drew the Z and the child answers that he was watching the Zorro movie at home last night, and on top of that he drew the Z, I believe that in that case the police will not start any procedure. That would be ridiculous. But the question is, yes, indeed this Z symbol [not good], even if it is meant for Zorrona. And then maybe the police are politely talking to the child, so don't draw this Z here, it has another meaning, not only the meaning of this positive national hero, as can be said in this historical film. So, yeah. Let's just say that outside the Commission, I have also been involved in various meetings where practitioners have expressed different ideas. Someone said there was an example that he was going to see a bronze soldier with an older gentleman Georgi tape on May 9th, and the police were talking to him. [Mister] says that my grandfather died in World War II and I do not recognise Putin. That's right, he doesn't recognize the action. On top of that, a law enforcement officer said that he would be happy to take it away, but he would also take it home in an older gentleman's car. There's been a variety of illustrations like this. That's right. I guess we'll live in new times and see what's going to happen here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U179	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U180	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It has to be said that this bill typically represents the level of this government, but also the objectives of this government. He will not solve the real problems; he will not remove monuments from our environment, symbols that can always be used to incite war, incite hatred, make demonstrations against the Estonian state, against the democratic West, whatever we want against. It does, however, provide an opportunity to interpret those who want to repress someone whose ideology or actions they do not like. And that is why I am saying that this is a populist substitution action in addition to everything that does not see a long perspective, it does not see that there is life after 9 May and there will be another 9 May, nor can it be seen that the war in Ukraine will end at one point. With the result, we do not know that, we hope, with a favourable result for us. And this is a total substitution. And I don't have a question for you, that's an assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U181	Thank you. As you know very well yourself, the EKRE Group has given a draft to the proceedings, which specifically concerns monuments. And it is our duty to deal with this bill. I think there is no such populism in this bill, however, which has still been prepared and built by specialists from a very good background in the ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U182	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. First, Raimond Kaljulaid will have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U183	Honourable fellows! I think we all know this and understand how important it is that the laws are as clear as possible, as unambiguous as possible, as understandable as possible. By the end of the day, when a citizen reads a draft that has received support in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, which has become a law, he must decide, among other things, how to act on this basis. And it was interesting to hear the answers of the esteemed Marek Jürgenson today. But let's get an analog for once. Imagine that we would also have a traffic code that allows us to travel up to 90 kilometres per hour where there is a sign that says you can drive up to 90 kilometres per hour, but then there are some exceptions that when a person says that I didn't want to endanger anyone by speeding, and I didn't want to do anything wrong with it, just drove faster, then the police say: "Okay, clear picture! Then go ahead and hit 130, but make sure you have no intention of hitting someone so quickly. " If a citizen promises not to have such an intention, he can continue. The wording proposed by this draft is contained in the details; these details are six words: in a way that supports or justifies these actions. What does that ultimately mean? Well, I imagine if a citizen is standing in front of Stenbock's house and he is in his hands, I don't know, in the colours of Georg's tape, a Z-letter poster where he demands the denacification of Ukraine, then there is a clear picture: this person supports Russia's aggression in Ukraine. But if a citizen takes Georg's tape and goes with it on May 9, like Filter Road, the police will stop him, but the citizen says that sincerely, I have no intention of justifying or supporting Russia's actions in Ukraine, I am against it, I came here simply to commemorate my loved ones or family members who have died, then what must this policeman do in such a situation? The person says that he has no intention of supporting or justifying aggression in Ukraine. Consequently, this activity is strictly a code of conduct. Or if, for example, a talented thought comes from a good association with the Russian embassy who says that they wish to hold a public lecture on the glorious history of the Russian Empire and its symbolics and also to show these symbols to the people. This is an academic event that will take place here in front of Toompea Castle, for example, on 9 May. So what do cops have to do? They come to the citizens, but they say that we know nothing about this ongoing war. We're against this war, we're dealing with the history of the empire here. In short, I think that the weakness of this government's work is that we all obviously understand what is desired to do, but for some reason, and I think that I perceive quite well what this reason really is, why specifically what was wanted to be banned has not been forbidden by the wording that allows very broad interpretations. Let me give you a different example. Now we're talking about the Z, the V and the Georgi tape, but there's another symbol that the Russian side is using very much in the war against Ukraine. This is the flag of the Russian Federation. Is the flag of the Russian Federation, for example, attached to the Russian embassy using this symbol in a way that supports or justifies these actions? So these questions are more than answers. And what is still the main thing: after all, people need to understand what they can and must not do. One minister tells them one thing, the other minister says another, the Commission representative says three, the police representatives say four. People turn to a lawyer, it says five. Asked in this Chamber, 101 different opinions are received, which will be adopted tomorrow. [Well, you can't so easily]. This is a mistake and I think it is very bad, especially in the current situation, where I agree with the former Prime Minister, Andrus Ansip, that the messages must be clear, the messages must be unambiguous. Well, if there is no political courage or will to actually ban something, then you have to disown your hands and say: you couldn't. But I find it ridiculous to come to Parliament with a bill, in which I do not understand what it means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U184	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U185	Ladies and gentlemen, Raimond already said a lot here, by the way, what is true and what is the problem here. Last week I was here to present the group's views on this draft and I referred to circumstances that bother us, but then I was actually very optimistic. I really sincerely hoped that this optimism would be understood, that these comments would be understood and that they would try to make an edible law. As Raimond said, indeed, we all understand what is being done. But the way in which this circle path is made, the way in which such a curved path is chosen is, frankly, incomprehensible. Perhaps it is indeed a lack of professionalism. And I am deeply unhappy about the result that has been born in the Commission. Yesterday, I was hoping things would change, but yes, they won't. While I'm here, I'm taking my story back to last week. Being here last week, I said that our group is extremely positive about this law [the draft] precisely because of what Raimond said, that we understand what it is or what it wants. However, we also stressed this, which is a so-called consolidated opinion, on which the group came in the middle of this debate, and it was that we are at the same time cautious, because we see that there is a need for concreteness, there is a need for such an understanding that there is no need for a police officer to become a semantic and a judge. And so that there are no such questions as to what our fellow Members have asked in the Chamber today: can it really be done, can it really be done, but what do these people say, who are doing it and who are doing it? I referred in my previous speech to the fact that the opinion of many well-known lawyers on the draft has been heard, and the criticisms are quite unambiguous. Bad wording..point one, lack of specificity, point two, and misunderstanding. In fact, I also referred to the speech by former Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks, who said that this [draft] was running for the worst draft. And he emphasised, by the way, that Mr Ginter, too, must have emphasised the same thing, that this bill should be so specific that we can direct it very specifically against Russian aggression. And here's not, Marek, it's not about banning Z or banning V or O. We are talking about Russia's aggressive activity. This bill is so dispersal that I just get scared of how it can be implemented at all. Well, Marek said it was a very good bill, and those who believe in Marek can rely on it. I can't. In my opinion, this is a very bad bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U186	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U187	More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U188	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U189	Ladies and gentlemen, We are today dealing with an amendment to the law which, at least according to the explanatory memorandum, is intended to prevent [use] of the symbols "Gorgis crosses," "Georgian ribbons" and other symbols on 9 May. And I understand the idea of the draft authors, it is being done very quickly, very, very quickly, in order to reach the deadline. But what do I say to that? Those who have prepared this bill think they can wipe the sweat off the forehead, and everything's fine. But let's take a look at how we're going to implement this law. So, let's say there's a citizen at the monument with Georg's tape in his chest. According to this bill, as Mr Marek Jürgenson said, and the Committee on Legal Affairs has said, the police have sufficient ground to go and seize the citizen, to bring him to the station and to make protocols, as he violates an article such as § 1511 "Supporting and legitimising international crime." If there is a good policeman who knows the law and has passed different trainings on a legal level, he will accept this norm and start reading: the act of aggression, genocide, the symbol of committing a crime against humanity or war crime in a manner that supports or justifies these acts will be punished... And so on, right? Now, when this policeman starts to think, how do we determine that there is an act of aggression, genocide or crime against humanity? How do we determine this? Are we going to give a general assessment of the people or is it the one who talks about this in this Chamber of the Riigikogu? I don't think I can do this. For these [definitions], such as the act of aggression, genocide, crime against humanity, [explains] § 89, 90, 91 in the special part of the Penal Code. Therefore, before we go against these symbols, we must have a final judgment stating that a certain act or act has been declared a genocide or an act of aggression. Because otherwise, if the policeman starts to implement this composition here and the citizen challenges it, the judge will ask, but what is the basis for it. What is the basis for genocide? It must be some kind of legislation that has ever been adopted by someone. I asked the rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs today: can you mention any legislation that concerns genocide or similar things? The answer was, I don't know. And here we are now facing the problem that if there is a correct policeman who is going to solve this issue, he would still want to know what is involved, for example, in wearing Georgi's tape in connection with what genocide or act of aggression, which has been found to be a criminal offence. Even if the police implement these procedures, I think they'll blow up already in the first-degree court. Secondly, I see a very serious problem that, if this law is now adopted, the police will be given the opportunity to interpret and assess on the ground whether, for example, it is a question of justifying or supporting genocide. Yes, I agree that the police can make that assessment. But the question is that we also need to look at the [position] of the citizen to whom this rule applies. In traffic, it is very simple, as Mr Kaljulaid referred to. I give the same example of traffic. Traffic is very simple: if there is a red light, you can't switch over, if there is a green light, you can go. However, there is no such possibility. A person must have a clear picture of what he can and must not do. It is simply not right to leave the signs of wrongdoing or crime to the police. The citizen must understand what he must not be wrong about. Marek Jürgenson also said that several legal experts had assessed that this [draft] was correct. Yes, I say that this [draft] is indeed correct in this sense. But it cannot be applied, as I understand it, to 9 May. Because there are such significant shortcomings here, which actually makes its implementation impossible. And [there is another problem], which maybe hasn't been mentioned at all. Since, let's say, we do not have judgments that give us the opportunity to expose the symbols associated with aggression or genocide to the public, the word "symbol" has been introduced here. At the same time, there is a paragraph such as § 92 "War propaganda" which has already been applied to some people, at least I have heard about it through the media. If this law enters into force, let's say, by 9 May, it will also cut through the use of § 92 "War propaganda" in terms of symbols, because the symbols are set out in this same § 1511 "Support and justification of international crime." So, well, a total Killala. Instead of preventing the symbols supporting aggression at this point, we are bringing in a new norm that basically destroys the possibility of implementing all of this. I would say that this is an absolute legal failure, and we must not let it pass in this form. The paragraph of war propaganda is absolutely applicable, and it will also help us at the events of 9 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U190	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Good fellows! At the beginning, I say that the Social Democrats support the banning of the symbols of aggression and the adoption of the corresponding law. But let's go from here. We are a Member State of the European Union and NATO, we belong fully to dozens and dozens of international organisations, we are connected to hundreds of ties to the rest of the world. The world is changing, and so is our country. We must realise that solidarity is the foundation of Europe, and we must recognise that for a small country there is more good than bad, much, much more good. It is likely that belonging to the European cultural and security space is the only guarantee of our being a small country, especially in the current security situation, especially in the unpredictable management of the eastern neighbour. Cohesion means both rights and obligations. There can't be another one without one. Tolerance, social solidarity, non-discrimination are the core values of the Estonian Constitution, the path we have chosen for ourselves. These values are written in our constitution. There's a bloody war going on in Ukraine. Russia is committing immense atrocities and crimes against humanity there. We, too, are at war, and the Estonian state must act vigorously here with those who support and justify the atrocities committed in Ukraine. I regret that the other Social Democrats regret that the provisions on hate speech have been removed from the draft. I also spoke to the Riigikogu last week at first reading. It happened during the night hours, and some basics I should repeat here, because they are very important. Good Riigikogu! In the Estonian Human Rights Centre's newsletter, we read: hate speech humiliates and humiliates people because of their skin colour, ethnic origin, nationality, language, religious persuasion, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability or age. Hostile speech can be found anywhere, including the street and the Internet. The worst thing is that hate speech encourages intolerance and violence, creating an environment in which discrimination and attacks against certain people are justified. [Also] if speaking is not directly called to violence. We are in the same value area as Europe. Together with other European countries, we have agreed that public incitement to violence is punishable by criminal penalties. Unfortunately, Estonia has not respected the agreement, being the only ones in Europe with Romania who have not. Public hatred grows easily into action, and then it is too late to hold back violence or control it. Public incitement to violence mobilises those who are not active without such a call. When people are called upon to hate a person based on his group membership or are called upon to commit violence against a particular group, nothing will happen today. This means that there is no regulation at the level of the law. In order to be condemnable and punishable, it must have clear, qualified features. And, of course, we need to explain more in society so that people can understand that anger is not just about hatred. Similarly, this has nothing to do with restricting freedom of expression when we talk about hatred. Now, if there's no social confrontation... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U192	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U193	... it may be that malicious insults grow into acts of property or even physical violence. And also, if someone doesn't do anything, if we leave it at that, then the protesters will get the impression that they can act that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U194	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U195	Honourable representative of the people! The Isamaa Group supports the completion of the second reading of this joint draft, the draft initiated by the Government of the Fatherland and the Government of the Republic, as amended. I welcome the fact that the word 'objective', which I drew attention to at first reading, has been removed from this. This [would] be a subjective element in the event of [alleged] misdemeanour, where the burden of proof would clearly be too high to detect the intrusion that a particular person possesses by exhibiting this symbol. It is important to emphasise here a supportive or justifiable way. This means that if a person simply posts a photo of a tank with a Z, reflecting the events of war, it is not, of course, a legitimate or supportive way. Or if there is a historical picture of this example of an amendment in the explanatory memorandum, such as the historical records of Heinrich Himmler's photograph with a Nazi armband, it is not, of course, a legitimate or supportive way. These are cases where information is simply exchanged when we are talking about public display, including social media space, these are not a legitimate way of displaying it. However, the so-called public space movement with the symbols that we mean with, for example, the Z, the Georgi ribbons, any movement in the public space with them is a supporting or justifying way of interpreting this law. This is an important fact that needs to be fixed in this Chamber. Secondly, we must bear in mind that, in the course of both Nazi and communist occupation and aggression, acts of aggression, genocide and crimes against humanity and war crimes were carried out. Of course, with this provision, the display of this symbolism will also be banned unambiguously and clearly. In this norm there is no temporal boundary, [not taken into account] the ongoing aggression or war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. This time limit is not defined. And thirdly, it is important that the definition of these symbols is undoubtedly also the case when we speak of the public display of an act of aggression, genocide, crime against humanity or of a symbol involved in committing a [war] crime as a so-called stationary symbol, or monuments. Of course, when these monuments are erected with the aim of exhibiting and remembering a military act of aggression, it is undoubtedly an act of supporting and justifying an international crime in the sense of this law. This provision of law also gives us the basis, the legitimate basis to interpret as prohibited such symbols of Nazi crimes, we do not have any statues, nor do we have symbols of communist aggression. Now, the next question concerns joining, participating in and supporting a foreign act of aggression. This also applies to [a case] when citizens of the Russian Federation enter the forced service. Our interpretation of this wording is that in this case punishment as a criminal offence should also include joining the foreign armed forces involved in the act of aggression or other armed forces involved in aggression. That is, in fact, when we are talking about joining the foreign armed forces. In reality, this should also mean taking up service in that sense. In essence, it means military service, but still military service. This means that those citizens of the Russian Federation who receive a military service invitation and choose to fulfil their military service obligations within the territory of the Russian Federation should, in our interpretation and understanding, be subject to this rule of the Penal Code. So I hope that the police of the Republic of Estonia will have the power, clarity and conviction, unambiguously and comprehensively, to apply this law, which we hope will be passed tomorrow in the Riigikogu, without stretching out by the President, so that we do not see these symbols in the public space that praise Georgi's ribbons, the Z-stars and other attributes of the Soviet army.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U196	Urmas, do you need more time? One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U197	No matter what excuses or concessions are sought to make, this law is unambiguous, clear, rigid, rigid. The Republic of Estonia must assert itself. And now it is the moment when the representative of the people must give this unambiguous guideline, I am sure, on the basis of the overwhelming support of the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U198	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U199	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! Good guardians of the Republic, guardians, just to say the Vardens! The Isamaa Group supports us to move forward with this draft, and since there is a second reading, we can add our own ideas to it. I say no matter what color the cat is or what the cat's name is, as long as it's a cat and it's trying to catch the mice, maybe it'll do the trick. Of course, the nationalists of the Fatherland also have a different vision. We would like to repeat more, and we long wanted to follow the example of other countries, along the lines of neighbouring countries. Lithuania, which has started these processes already last autumn, when we did not have an acute issue at all, did not address us. Today we have arrived where we are now in the best of knowledge, and I would remind you that the police themselves said that they needed this law. We have been saying here many times that our officials are saying that please give us the instruments so that we can carry out this battle mission. I brought the idea that we're gonna give the servants a five-meter job, but we're not gonna give them a pole-jumping stick. If that is the will and will of the police, I think that this law is well enough interpreted for them. Of course, just as there are two lawyers and three opinions, there is nothing strange about this, we also have the question, in the case of political parties, that we would like a little more, that we would like one, one, the other, a third and a fourth. Let me remind you that one big compromise was that this hate speech or hate speech was left out of it. Over the carpets, I'm gonna be pissed... [[Singing.]] The other is that in some way the coalition had to come along. After all, the goal is to prevent possible provocations. I would like to say here to our press that many clever people have said that do not start mystifying on 26 and 27 April. But what do I see? Everyone wants to surf this wave, get a good feimi, get different opinions, then click and then it's all good. The press says they're right and they have a responsibility. But if there's power, there's responsibility. Responsibility should also be what attitudes in society are [designed]. The one thing I didn't like was that old lady's example of her wanting to come with flowers all the time. Seriously! I'm just telling you, if it's possible, close the street. No movement at all! Okay, Lithuania and Latvia are approaching in different ways, one says that all forms of withdrawal are treated as anti-state activities, and some then close. We are doing all kinds of entertainment and everything about Europe Day, which means that perhaps the Filter will not come into this conflict. But the story that Auntie wants to put flowers in there, and that's the only argument... What about kindergarten kids in the Red Army uniform? Our message must be one. We must establish ourselves as a country and say that these things at this point in time are not tolerated by the state and we do not tolerate them, leave them somewhere else. We'll get to the point where we can start cleaning our public space. What is happening in Ukraine, the derussification of the symbols that perpetuate and praise the occupation must leave our public space, because it is not acceptable to us. At this point, however, the police say that for him, the things and resources he has asked for are sufficient to prevent provocation. Yes, I know that people can identify themselves in every way, but also when people with flowers come there, I want to tell you that Russia has not cared about people and that it has not cared about human casualties in the same way. All he cares about is that there are so many casualties. So let us consider how we can survive these difficult times. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U200	Hanno Pevkur, please! A little extra time? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U201	Ladies and gentlemen, Above all, those colleagues who have come here to criticise this bill in some way! You can always criticize when there is content. But the content of this bill is entirely elsewhere. The content of this draft is that the Republic of Estonia, the parliament of the Republic of Estonia, establishes itself and says that the acts currently committed by Russia in Ukraine and the justification of these acts with any symbols are not tolerated in Estonia and are not allowed. A simple message: doesn't come out with Georgi's tape, doesn't come out with a Z. The country of Estonia will not be tolerated and will be taken away by the police. It's as simple as that. What's so complicated? Does genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes or acts of aggression have to be identified somehow? No, you don't. You don't have to be identified by a court decision. These are crimes against the principle of international law. These are anti-peace crimes. The act of aggression there is not an act of aggression, it is an act of aggression. Under international law, they do not need to be identified, although they are clearly identifiable. I hope that tomorrow Parliament will adopt the expression of genocide, and then the parliament of the Republic of Estonia will say that what is happening in Ukraine is genocide. What else do we need? Are we going to argue about whether there is an act of aggression or genocide in Ukraine somewhere in the Estonian court, the Harju County Court? We'll tell the police that no, there's nothing we can do until the act of aggression has been established. I'm sorry! The act of aggression has long been clear. The police need a tool. And this tool is on our desk now at second reading and tomorrow at third reading. We'll take him. We already say today, we say here to the police and we say to the Estonian people, to those who want to follow the Estonian legal order: the Z letter is not allowed, no combinations that are currently used in Ukraine to justify Russian aggression are allowed. Period. What's so complicated? Therefore, I think that no matter how many legal nuances there are, there can always be, in every piece of legislation there are legal nuances, the content and effect of this act and the message are elsewhere. This message is very simple, once again said in Estonian: if you go out to justify, to support, to present everything Russia is currently doing in Ukraine, this act is not allowed. Not allowed through symbols, through your actions, anything. It's that simple. Maybe, good friends, I don't think we need to convince each other any more. Today we will finish our second reading, tomorrow we will adopt this draft law at third reading. I hope the President of the Republic will announce it quickly. We will also accept further genocide tomorrow. The message is clear to the police, the message is clear to the Estonian people, and the message is clear to those who do not want to live in Estonia, or to those who do not respect Estonia's legal order. You don't have to live here. You don't have to live! If you commit a crime, the commission of the crime may result, among other things, in the withdrawal of the residence permit. So the message we're sending here isn't complicated. Who respects the legal order of the Republic of Estonia is welcome and free to be here. Anyone who doesn't respect it doesn't have to be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U202	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for negotiation. I'm closing the negotiations. We now need to revise the amendments. There is exactly one amendment to this draft that has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself and that has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Uh... The Committee on Legal Affairs. I'm sorry! I don't have glasses. The Committee on Legal Affairs has presented it and the Committee on Legal Affairs has taken full account of it. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 585 be terminated. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U203	Today's third item is the first reading of the Act on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft Act on the amendment of other laws (569 SE). The rapporteur is Mr Tanel Kiik, Minister for Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U204	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today I am happy to give an overview of the amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act and other laws related to it, Bill 569. The objective of the draft is simple: in particular, we want to combine existing fragmented databases, to ensure uniform management by means of the new health management information system, the current national register of health professionals, the register of pharmacists and pharmacists, and the register of health services licences. So let's add up the existing, essentially intertwined registers to one health management information system. The main changes foreseen by the draft are in the user's view. From now on, health care professionals will be able to register digitally on the basis of the Estonian personal identity code via the Health Board's self-service portal. If the evidence of this person's qualification is already included in the Estonian Education Information System, the Health Board is not required to provide further evidence and the decision to register as a health care professional is automatically taken. For persons who do not have an Estonian personal identity code, the general registration process remains the same as in the current Act. Making this change will make this process easier for most healthcare professionals and applicants, which means that it will also make the work of the Health Board somewhat smaller and make these processes more automated in a good way and thus reduce bureaucracy. The specific draft is somewhat time-critical, as this necessary development is already underway today. We haven't come to ask for any extra money. These costs shall be covered by the Agency's budget for the development of registries requested from the European Social Fund. The entry into force of the Act is scheduled for 27 June this year, as the deadline for the implementation of the eligibility of this funding will be 30 August 2022. The aim is that we can successfully adopt the law and submit a final report to the European Social Fund, and all this in the timetable we have seen. I will also answer a few questions that have arisen in the Committee on Social Affairs. The important thing is that we do not, to any extent, create additional obligations or additional work for the existing health professionals who are already in the registers by combining different databases. The people and institutions that are listed today will remain in place, these procedures will remain in force. There is no need to make any new registrations; nothing will change in this view for existing people and institutions. But for new applicants, the process will become simpler. So, in my opinion, a very sensible and IT-view, as well as a reasoned draft and a reasoned proposal. Thank you. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U205	It seems that everyone is so clear to the members of the Riigikogu that there are no such questions. Thank you! Let us also hear the view of the Social Affairs Committee, given by Viktor Vassilyev. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U206	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 11 April, the Social Affairs Committee heard the draft law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws for the first reading of the Act 569. The Commission saw that it was quite necessary. Life goes on and the corresponding regulations need to be brought into line with life. With a great deal of effort, the Members of the Commission were able to come up with two questions and an additional question at the Commission meeting, but mainly my previous speaker, Minister, has already referred these questions to you. They were also well answered. The Commission decided to propose a draft on the plenary agenda on 20 April, to appoint Mr Viktor Vassilyev as the representative of the lead committee, who did not oppose very much, and to propose that the first reading be closed. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U207	It's settled. No questions for you either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft, but before that, the political groups will be able to express their views during the negotiations. That's not what you want. I'm closing the negotiations. We have completed the first reading of the draft and will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 4 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U208	Our fourth item is Bill 572 of the Act on the Organisation of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and on the amendment of other laws, which deals more specifically with the transfer of the vessels of the Police and Border Guard Board to the area of administration of the Ministry of Defence. The minister's on his way to our place. I'll take the manager's break in five minutes. We were too fast.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U209	The chairman's recess is over, the Secretary of Defense is in the hall. So let's begin the process of the Act on the Order of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Act on the Amendment of Other Laws 572. Please, Secretary of Defense Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U210	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present to you really draft 572 and to introduce it to you. This is a draft law prepared by the Ministry of Defence to amend the order of the Defence Forces and other laws. The draft establishes legal bases for the transfer of the vessels of the Police and Border Guard Board to the Ministry of Defence. To this end, ten relevant laws will be amended. The interconnecting of the fleets has been on the table of different governments for the last few decades. On 25 November 2021, the government decided that the time for discussions was over and that two fleets would be integrated to ensure greater maritime security in Estonia. I can safely say that this is the largest cross-cutting state reform of the last decade. Merging the fleets will provide Estonia with a comprehensive maritime security capability in times of peace and crisis. It improves the situational awareness and responsiveness of the Estonian sea area and provides Estonia with a better defence capacity and creates prerequisites for responding to the conflict in the region. The transfer of the four vessels of the Police and Border Guard Board to the Defence Forces does not undermine the performance of civil functions or the level of performance of [bad] tasks to date, as ships retain the capabilities they have today. The Defence Forces will be responsible for maritime awareness. The change will significantly improve our awareness of the situation at sea, as it will allow different images of sea movements to be assembled and more and smarter to be present at sea. The Defence Forces will be responsible for maritime border surveillance, including the operation of marine surveillance radar. The amendment will provide Estonia with greater visibility at sea and more active action will prevent the threat from occurring and reduce the opponent's desire to test them in our waters. In addition, there is an increase in preparedness for operational intervention in the event of a threat. The Defence Forces will also be responsible for detecting and eradicating marine pollution in the maritime area, which will provide a better opportunity to prepare for crises and to make the necessary plans for response. The Police and Border Guard Board remains responsible for sea rescue and is responsible for the search and rescue work in the Estonian sea area. The Defence Forces will be taking part in the marine rescue with the ships. The Defence Forces will monitor compliance with maritime safety requirements on recreational craft, vessels of less than 12 metres overall length and jet skis. For maritime safety and border surveillance, the Defence Forces will be granted law enforcement powers on the same basis and to the same extent as the Police and Border Guard Board has so far applied them in carrying out the same tasks. In addition, the Defence Forces will be given an urgent competence to apply national surveillance measures in the Estonian sea area and in the small islands in case of a threat to human life and health. The moment of time is suitable for the operation of the change, as within this decade, 50% of the PBA ships and 100% of the Defence Forces ships will end in service. The interconnection of fleets will also make it possible to significantly restructure the number, type and capacity of vessels deployed to ensure the sustainability of maritime security. The conditions of employment of staff transferred from the PPA to the Defence Forces will not change significantly, with ships, in terms of salary, special pensions and other benefits. We are working to find the best solution for the transition for all people. The interconnection of fleets is therefore also a forward-looking reform, which will give us the opportunity to obtain common platforms in the future to fulfil all the necessary tasks and to make joint investments to ensure maritime security. In this way, we will be able to obtain a better service by developing together in the future. This draft law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U211	Good Secretary of Defense! There's no questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U213	That's the story. Mati Raidma, National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U214	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic of Estonia initiated the draft on 4 April of this year. The National Defence Commission discussed the merger of the fleets of the Police and Border Guard Board for the first time on the same day, on 4 April, in which Margit Gross, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence and Asko Kivinuk, Head of the Procurement Department of the National Defence Investment Centre, Sea Commander Johan-Elias Seljamaa and Head of the Preparedness and Response Office of the Police and Border Guard Board, Mait Sigurgur took part as representatives of the executive state authorities. The members of the Commission supported the ongoing process of joining the fleets at their meeting. The draft establishes legal bases for the transfer of the vessels of the Police and Border Guard Board to the Defence Forces from 1 January 2023. According to the amendment, the Defence Forces will be responsible for creating maritime awareness, guarding the sea border and detecting and eradicating marine pollution in the Estonian sea area. The Defence Forces will also be responsible for maritime surveillance, including managing and operating the maritime surveillance system, including by ensuring access to the service to national partners, such as the Police and Border Guard Board and the Transport Board. Although maritime rescue remains the responsibility of the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence Forces are involved in search and rescue work at sea. In addition, the Defence Forces will carry out national surveillance, provide maritime assistance, resolve maritime emergencies and provide official support to other authorities, in particular during off navigation periods. In order to guard the sea border and ensure maritime safety, the Defence Forces shall be granted law enforcement powers and the right to exercise direct coercion. Law enforcement powers for primary operations are also granted to the Defence Forces for intervention in small islands and sea areas in the event of threats to human life and health. The aim of the reform is to improve the situational awareness and responsiveness of the Estonian sea area, including ensuring Estonia's independent defence capacity and the prerequisites for responding to conflicts in the region. Consolidation of PBGB vessels The composition of the Defence Forces will ensure that today's ships perform better security and defence tasks both during peacetime and in emergency situations. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 11 April, after being appointed as the lead committee, with the participation of Defence Minister Kalle Laanet, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, Margit Gross, and the Chairman of the Fleet Merging Task Force, Head of the Procurement Department of the National Defence Investment Centre, Asko Kivinuk. Now look at the issues raised in the Committee on National Defence. Parliamentary supervision. According to § 1 (4) (7) of the Bill, the Ministry of the Interior will present a written overview of the participation of the Defence Forces in the exercise of state supervision to the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu every two years. Through this, we will ensure parliamentary control. Leo Kunnas asked about the takeover of police officers who worked in the Police and Border Guard Board into the Defence Forces. Kalle Laane said that a satisfactory compromise was reached between the parties during the discussions on the transfer of police officers and the harmonisation of service laws and social packages. According to Asko Kivinuk, the first feedback after meeting the crews is that they are satisfied with the conditions offered to them. Margit Gross confirmed that existing salaries would be maintained, the pension records of police officers would continue. All the differences are set out in the Police and Border Guard Act or the Defence Forces Service Act respectively. The speaker asked how many police officers would be transferred by contract of employment and how many would be assigned to the service. Margit Gross replied that officials would come into active service, and those working on a contract of employment today would also be transferred by contract of employment. There is no plan to change their status. Enn Eesmaa asked about the amendment of the state border law. It is possible to apply coercion and use a weapon within the limits of the law enforcement law. Does anything change there? Margit Gross replied that everything concerning the implementation and scope of the measures necessary for border surveillance, and the powers that the Police and Border Guard Board has today, would be given to the same extent to the Defence Forces. The use of weapons and physical force is necessary if orders or measures are not subject to. Leo Kunnas recommended including costs to be transferred to the Defence Forces budget due to the merger of fleets in the National Defence Development Plan. Kalle Laanet promised that these costs would be included in the National Defence Development Plan together with a third package of additional funding. Procedural decisions of the National Defence Committee. At the meeting of 11 April this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of the session of the Riigikogu on 20 April and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading. I was appointed waitress of the bill. The deadline for tabling amendments would be ten working days according to the law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U215	Thomas Järveoja would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress Mati! Were there any objections to this draft within the committee in favour of the representatives of any political group?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U217	There was a very meaningful debate in the Commission. In the state where the process is today, these fears, which have been in the air before, have been removed. The members of the Commission were consensual that this process was right and going in the right direction, especially in view of today's security situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U218	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please! [[Martin Helme's asking for more time.]] Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U219	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I guess we're used to the fact that today's government is bringing creepy things to this Riigikogu, one worse than the other, which makes Estonia's government worse and reduces our sense of security. Well, it's a classic bill of how we're gonna get here with some nice talk about selling a total rotten egg. Merging the fleets has been the dream of officials for many years, and it was pressed by the same officials to us when we were in government too, with quite insincere and quite quickly proven false arguments. And our party absolutely categorically disagreed with that. Not only did it agree with the merger between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence's fleet, which is not a merger of any kind, but it actually took ships out of internal security and handed over to the Defence Forces to pretend that we have an operational navy. I don't know who needs to report it somewhere in NATO. But in addition, it was also intended to combine all the ships of the Maritime Administration with the entire crempet, the Environmental Board's planes and the ships all connected. Of course, we were talking about how we would have saved money. No money savings [so much] that if you start scratching a little bit of that talk, it turns out that saving money means spending tens of millions of extra money. How do we optimise the governance structure? In fact, as soon as you get into the details again, it becomes clear that the governance structure is not getting any better. What's really going to happen? What happens now is that ships are being taken from the border guard, they say that the Defence Forces are going to take care of the border guard. I won't! There's no way I'm gonna do this! Clearly, they are not going to have training for this; this is not their main task; they have no interest in doing so. A complete capacity to control environmental pollution will be lost. This is what we are going to ask, either from Finland or Sweden, or with solutions carved on some knee, if we have a disaster situation. Internal security is starting to work, hat in hand, begging from the Department of Defense, any help or information he needs, to get a reconnaissance or a sea view, whether on water or underwater. It makes everything worse. And where are we going? We get out there that, I don't know whether in five years or ten years, I'm ready to take absolutely firm poison, they're gonna tell us how we need to re-create these capabilities at the Home Office, now we need to create these capabilities in other areas, because you see, it didn't work out, it didn't go as we wanted. We wanted the best, but it turned out the way it used to. Well, that's completely predictable. Just as it was entirely predictable when border guards and police were put together that border guards would suffer the consequences of border surveillance. But it was done because there was a great need to do it for the sake of austerity, by the way, it was said that it had to be done. They did it, and now they're going to do it once and for all! To eliminate our ability to guard our borders by water. We note that Estonia has much more sea borders than the land borders. And the ability to guard this border will simply be eliminated. And the result is two options: whether we are not going to have it at all, or whether we are going to have a very big budget request after a while, and they say that we have to start building it from scratch. There's no way I'm gonna agree that we're kind of blindfolded going along with this beautiful ad story and walking into this trap. Our party proposes to reject this draft at first reading. This is a seriously damaging draft to Estonia's internal security, and it is a shame to them that today's completely powerless and incompetent and unthinkable members of our government have let it go so far. But if we let it go from here, it's a disgrace to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U220	Before Mati Raidma arrives, Jürgen Ligi has a procedural question. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U221	Yeah, maybe it doesn't come out procedurally, but maybe the Rules of Procedure would allow us some time to save and the EKRE will go to the remote when he has to say he doesn't mind. At the moment, all the speeches are just that they are fundamentally opposed, and it is somehow boring.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U222	This is really not a procedural question. Martin Helme has a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U223	Only one representative of the political group can take the floor at first reading. Mr Ligi has already spoken in favour of the Reform Party Group. I don't agree with Mati Raidma's speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U224	That was not a procedural question either, so I said to Jürgen. This was not a speech on behalf of the group, so you have to press the "Speech" button. Nor was it an on-the-spot speech because it was mentioned as a procedural question to which the President responded, saying that it was not procedural. Martin Helmel wasn't procedural either. But let's see if it's procedural now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U225	It was not procedural, it was a speech on the ground. And one group cannot make two speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U226	Once again, it was not a speech from a point of view or a speech from a remote, it was procedural. Just like now, Martin, you raised your hand. In fact, after Mati came here, you might have been able to take the opportunity to say yes or to reply. So in this sense neither you nor Jürgen had a procedural question. Let's move on with the negotiations. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U227	Thank you very much. Estonia is a maritime state and maritime security and defence in the marine domain is critical for us. Estonia is a small country and we have tried to build up 100% of the fleets under different responsibilities, but we simply cannot. Therefore, this draft will open the way for us to develop capacities that meet our needs by pooling resources and investing additional resources. I would also like to add that it is not only a matter of transferring four ships. We are also talking about a national maritime surveillance system to get a professional picture of what is happening around us in maritime areas. We are also talking about improving governance, bringing the sea operations centre and the maritime surveillance centre into one place and integrating their work, which gives much greater opportunity to respond to these challenges. Therefore, the Reform Party supports the draft and wishes to force us all to vote when the need arises. And at the same time, there is plenty of strength for the professionals who are carrying this process today, so that, as soon as possible, next year, we can begin to develop our common maritime capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U228	The political groups have no further requests to speak. The Secretary of Defense has requested a word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U229	Thank you. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am also honored to be a member of this hall since 2007. And the merger of the fleets has been talked about in this Chamber, or among politicians, definitely more than the last decade. This is not the decision of the officials; it has not been the will of the officials, which has been pushed through, as was pointed out in this Chamber. It is purely the opinion of people who have worked in these areas who have come into politics. This is a sensible step to take in order to provide greater security so that, in future, we have ships with significantly higher functionality, which we must acquire, in order to offer more. The second argument that was made here was to save money. I haven't found a place on any page of this bill that says we're saving money by pooling it. We make much better use of public money, offering greater security. That is the goal, not the saving of money. Just as the Police and Border Guard Board once did: the aim was not to save money but to offer more. The world is changing, Estonia is changing, the threats are changing, and that means that we must be able to think along. And we are especially good when we can think ahead about how to prevent and respond better. It shows our strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U230	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the draft, but, as you have heard, the proposal of the Conservative People's Party Group to reject the draft at first reading is to be voted through. Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to remind everyone that we are discussing the draft Act on the Order of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the amendment of other laws 572, concerning the transfer of the vessels of the Police and Border Guard Board to the Ministry of Defence. I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft Act amending the Order of the Defence Forces and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading 572. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U231	The proposal was supported by 10 votes against and 48. The proposal was not supported. So we have finished our first reading and I will set the deadline of 4 May at 5 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U232	Let us move on to our fifth item on the agenda, which is the draft Act on the Insolvency of a Natural Person, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 575. Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice of the Riigikogu Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U233	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll introduce you to the bill for the insolvency of a natural person. For starters, background. In the first phase of the insolvency review, amendments to the Bankruptcy Act were completed, which has now entered into force. Now you have before you the second stage as a result of the bill on the insolvency of a natural person. That's the end of the whole insolvency review. The draft also transposes the Insolvency Directive, the transposition deadline for which is this year17. July. In addition, the draft also offers solutions to the problems of reorganisation. The audit team was involved in the drafting of the draft, consisting of recognised experts and practitioners in Estonia. During the preparation of the bill, changes were considered in the Bankruptcy Act and the Law on debt restructuring and debt protection, but it was considered that it would be more reasonable to integrate insolvency issues concerning a natural person into a single law, as the whole issue is more understandable for a person. Everything you need is now incorporated into a single law. While it is true that bankruptcy proceedings in particular remain under the regulation of the Bankruptcy Act, the law on debt restructuring and debt protection is abolished. I will address three key issues in the draft. These are the insolvency proceedings of a natural person, the reorganisation proceedings and the regulation of the appointment of a trustee and a reorganisation counsellor. Firstly, the insolvency proceedings of a natural person. There are many reasons for man's insolvency. These issues are not covered by this bill. The draft is aimed at finding solutions that will enable people to exit problems more easily and quickly, while also ensuring the protection of creditors' interests. There are several proceedings for the insolvency of a natural person: bankruptcy proceedings, bankruptcy proceedings with discharge proceedings and debt restructuring proceedings. Currently, the first two are regulated in the Bankruptcy Act and the third in the Debt Restructuring and Debt Protection Act. In order to reach bail-in, it is necessary to enter bankruptcy proceedings first. At present, a separate application is required for each of these procedures, with very different requirements and conditions for submitting applications for these procedures and a rather complex application for debt restructuring. This has been one of the reasons for the choice of bankruptcy proceedings. The draft will create a single declaration of insolvency, with uniform and simpler forms. The requirements for the debtor will be reduced and the debtor will be assisted by a trustee. A little bit later than a confidant. In general, the initiation of insolvency exits will become easier and more understandable for the debtor and the choice of the right procedure will become more flexible and informed. It is important that the changes should support the process of debt restructuring. This is more sustainable for the debtor. For example, it is possible to maintain important assets, such as housing, which cannot be done in bankruptcy and bail-out proceedings. When submitting a single application, the debtor can indicate which proceedings he wishes to initiate, but the court may decide otherwise, on the basis of a recommendation from the trustee appointed to receive the application. It is up to the trustee to determine the financial situation of the debtor, which allows an assessment of which procedure is actually appropriate. The draft provides for the possibility for the creditor to submit, in addition to the application for bankruptcy, an application for debt restructuring, but the debtor must consent to the initiation of this procedure. The reason is that a successful debt transformation requires the debtor to take part in this process. Under the law in force, the debtor may be released from the obligation within three to seven years of the initiation of the procedure. As a rule, it's been five years. The waiver shall start after the bankruptcy proceedings have been completed. According to the draft, the decommitment period will be reduced to a maximum of three years. Exceptions to the extension and shortening of the period remain in force. The waiver starts with the announcement of bankruptcy proceedings, which is why the period will be shorter. One of the issues at issue during the preparation of the draft was the length of the decommitment period. There are those who recommend a short period of one year, for example, others as long as possible. In favour of shortening the length of the period, the long procedure will drain both the debtor, the court and the creditors, as well as society, but will not benefit the creditor. It has been observed, in particular, that a long release period favours the frustration of the debtor and, seeing that he is not discharged of debts, begins to hide his income, so that the sums recovered will eventually be lower than in the case of a shorter procedure where the person will not lose his hope of recovering from the difficulties. It is also important that the decommitment must not be light-handed, that the commitments made must be met. The draft therefore offers a number of options for the termination of the decommitment procedure if maliciousness occurs. Exemption from obligations will continue to be the discretion of the court, which is possible once every ten years and therefore only for honest debtors. The following amendments relating to the reorganisation procedure: There are changes to the proposal both under the insolvency and reorganisation directives, as well as from the point of view of national practice. In itself, it is logical that, in the event of imminent insolvency, debtors in financial difficulties have a way in which they can restructure their debts or companies, restore viability and prevent insolvency. This is the reorganisation procedure. In the case of private individuals, the procedure for reorganising liabilities would be analogous. Pursuant to the Restructuring Act, all enforcement proceedings and executions against the debtor are suspended upon the opening of the reorganisation procedure. It may also suspend the application of legal proceedings against the debtor and of measures to ensure the enforcement of the action. The amendments allow, at the request of the debtor or the reorganisation counsellor and at the decision of the court, the exercise of other rights of recovery, in particular the exercise of the lien, to be suspended. The draft clarifies the provisions governing the content of the orderly resolution plan. For example, the plan also provides for an obligation to identify creditors who are not affected by the scheme to indicate the extent of the creditor's claim under the orderly resolution plan as compared to what the creditor would receive in bankruptcy proceedings. The restructuring plan must first include a minimum grant, i.e. at least one group of creditors. Secondly, the relative priority rule must be complied with, which means that a group of persons concerned with the same degree of disagreement must be treated at least as favorably as another group of persons of the same order and more favourably than a group of persons of the same order. Thirdly, no creditor may receive more than the full value of his claim under the scheme. The new regulation to encourage new and intermediate funding is foreseen, and this is the result of the Directive. Interim financing is the financing provided to the debtor during the negotiation of the orderly resolution plan. However, the new funding is the part of the funding that will be provided to the debtor for the period after the orderly resolution plan has been approved and necessary for the successful implementation of the orderly resolution plan. Such funding is critical to ensure the success of the reorganisation. Given that the debtor is in default, it is not easy to find funding. It is therefore foreseen that, if the funding is in good faith, the transactions made in order to obtain it cannot be recovered from the subsequent bankruptcy proceedings and that the creditor who provided the funding will be given a higher degree of satisfaction in any subsequent bankruptcy proceedings, equivalent to the payment of the costs of the bankruptcy proceedings. The Estonian reorganisation procedure has been assessed as ineffective both because of its long duration and its cost. The aim of the draft is to improve the efficiency of the procedure, i.e. to make it faster and less costly. To this end, a number of measures are envisaged, such as the reduction of unnecessary appeals rights, which allow for delays, the exclusion of unclear claims or parts of claims from the orderly resolution plan, and the identification of the claim and its scope outside the reorganisation procedure. It provides for the possibility to implement the orderly resolution plan without delay. In particular, the examination of the Regulation's appeal against the Regulation determining the orderly resolution plan will be speeded up. Regulation of the invitations of advisers will also contribute to the effective conduct of the procedure. The reputation and credibility of the reorganisation process is not very high among creditors and society and needs to be increased. The main form of abuse of the reorganisation procedure is the loss of time limits for the submission of possible recovery actions in subsequent bankruptcy or enforcement proceedings. In order to avoid this, it is envisaged to extend the corresponding time limits by the duration of the reorganisation procedure. The changes should lead to an increase in both creditors' and society's confidence in reorganisation, as well as a decrease in overall disapproval. The reorganisation procedure is not a public procedure under the current law, but, on the contrary, confidential. The draft proposes to make the reorganisation procedure public. This means that official notices will be published for the initiation and subsequent stages of the procedure. And now the trustees and the reorganisation counsellors. The bill regulates the invitation of the trustees and the reorganisation advisors. The best way to avoid a natural person's failings is financial or monetary awareness and as early as possible intervention and behavioural change when difficulties arise. Therefore, the existence and availability of qualified financial advisors, as well as debt advisors, is important. However, if a person is now in difficulty, competent support is essential to overcome the problems. At the moment, this is not legally 100% guaranteed. For example, the debtor can draw up his own plans. This means that self-advised and perhaps not the most realistic discharge plans. The uneven quality of the advice service leads to unrealistic schemes, low acceptance of the scheme by creditors or the court and insufficient supervision of the schemes approved by the court. This is actually also the case for the reorganisation proceedings of legal persons, as well as for the debt restructuring procedure of natural persons. In addition, a self-employed debtor needs constant support in the course of proceedings, the burden of which currently rests with the courts. Unlike insolvency practitioners, the invitation of reorganisation advisors and self-employed debtor advisers, or trustees, has not yet been regulated. The draft proposes to regulate them as well as to improve the efficiency of their calls. The aim is to increase qualifications and the burden of sharing more wisely between advisors and courts, as well as to improve the efficiency and quality of the procedure. In particular, in the case of a self-employed debtor, changes to the system of advisers are also necessary to support the selection of the most suitable and sustainable procedure for the debtor. More specifically, the criterion for the appointment of trustees and reorganisation advisors will be clarified. A list of reorganisation advisors and trustees will be created at the bailiffs and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators, from which the courts can choose the appropriate persons. The requirements for inclusion and presence on the list, including the obligation to pass an examination, training and refresher training, make transparent the remuneration of advisors, lay down the basis for the release of the advisor, the rights of appeal and supervision. For the court, it will be easier to find a trustee and a reorganisation counsellor. As I said, the choice must be made on a list-based basis, which includes persons who have the necessary qualifications and whose competence has been verified. According to the draft, several other laws are being amended, but these amendments are linked to the three major draft amendments already mentioned. Thanks for me. And I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U234	And there are questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In this 400-page draft, you referred to the transposition of the European Union directive. § 2 of the Supplementary Constitution Act does not deal with the primacy of European Union law in relation to Estonian law or its direct applicability in Estonia. This [can only be done] if this is not contrary to the Estonian Constitution. I, too, have seen this large pile of [you], these 400 pages, worked rather hard and I have not yet found any expert opinion on whether or not this European Union directive is in conflict with the Estonian Constitution. Why don't you help me out and show me what page it's on?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U236	Thank you. First of all, I recall that in the case of the Constitution, the rules agreed in Europe also apply in Estonia. So the things we've agreed on are valid. Secondly, if any draft is to be drawn up in Europe, there are a number of situations in which the different parameters of the regulation or directive proposed by the European Union, their suitability, are assessed in advance, and this is also the basis for whether it all coincides with our accession agreement, with the European agreement, whether it is necessary. So all these assessments have been made before. At the moment when the directive is adopted or the regulation is adopted, Estonia has already made this assessment, including in the Riigikogu. If the Riigikogu had previously found that this was an issue that the European Union should not be dealing with, then Estonia, including the Riigikogu, should have reacted earlier. And as far as I know, it's always been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U237	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, this law is very long and thorough; it is very difficult to understand. Please help me understand the difference between the trustee and the reorganisation counsellor. And there was talk, you said it would get easier, that there was a separate application, and the debtor would get easier. At the same time, the trustee needs to make two statements if the debtor agrees. And this explanation talks about natural persons and trustees, and also about reorganisation proceedings and legal persons. What's all this got to do with each other? Please help me understand a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U239	Thank you. The trustee is intended to help a natural person, or person, who has entered or is about to enter insolvency. At present, many different advisors are trustees, depending on what happens to the person. The reorganisation advisor is indeed in the case of reorganisation proceedings. The reorganisation procedure is used for legal entities, i.e. companies. Now, how exactly does this process take place? This explanatory note actually exists, I'm also trying to find a schematic of this page, this process. Basically, if a person senses that he or she has difficulties in payment, that he or she is unable to fulfil his or her obligations, he or she will write a statement according to this bill, the form of which is currently given and submit it to the court. The court assesses the information provided in the application and decides to appoint a trustee to help a person collect the necessary documents, materials and information and, on the basis of this, evaluate the procedure that a person should start to apply. In the present case, it is such a valid law that a person must decide for himself which procedure he or she chooses. And since this number of documents presented in the debt restructuring procedure is much more extensive and maybe ill-observed to such an ordinary person, they choose it to seem easier to have bankruptcy proceedings, it is written that I would like to go bankrupt, in fact maybe there is no need for him to simply redesign debts, negotiate them with creditors, for example, to postpone debts in a longer way or to assess the value of his assets, maybe to realise some assets. As such a trustee assumes, since there are also certain requirements that this trustee is, what requirements he needs to know, what his knowledge skills need to be, then the trustee will be better able to assess this process, the person's assets, incomes on the one hand, so-called incomes, and also assess the responsibilities and then provide it with an appropriate solution and help him pass through it. In the present case, there are no such trustees. Man has to take the first step himself. As a general rule, a person who is in difficulties is expected to have little financial knowledge and little legal knowledge. He may not be able to make the right choice, and he is unlikely to be able to make a wise plan of discharge. A person who can give good advice, assist a person in this process when he or she passes it, and choose the right procedure. As I said in my speech, if a person goes bankrupt and filed for bankruptcy, let's assume he has real estate and he has to realise it in order to honour his debts. If he were to choose the debt restructuring procedure which he might not choose at the moment because it is difficult to submit this application, the required documents are very much, he cannot handle it himself, then in fact, perhaps it would help him to really settle his debts and preserve his home, an apartment that he owns. As a result, a confidant is certainly an indispensable alongside competent person in the event of a natural person's default.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U240	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U241	Thank you! I come to the application of this European Union directive. You said here that the Riigikogu has accepted or approved it, or I did not understand [what]. Based on the context of this abstract control of norms, you may find it a little difficult to understand my question, but I will try to explain it more carefully. The point is that the Riigikogu does not approve or adopt directives, but the Riigikogu takes over the directive into [our] laws. And my question is simple. Has your experts, in principle, assessed whether this applicable directive is contrary to our constitution? Because when we made the accession agreement, there was such a clause that [the directives] must not be contrary to our constitution. Please also answer and page where this assessment has been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U242	Thank you. This draft law is not contrary to the Estonian Constitution. This potential contradiction was assessed, however, but I do not have these documents with me and I cannot refer to you right now. I know that you are a member of the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs. In that case, you know very well that, when different positions are discussed, these views are being drawn up by shaping positions, before the directive is finally reached, where negotiations are taking place, where very different aspects are assessed, including the proportions, whether this is a proportionate approach, whether the implementation of European law is appropriate and, if so, to what extent, and very many other things. This assessment has already been made before the adoption of the Directive. So I really don't remember, this [assessment] probably has been given many years ago. In this sense, there is no longer a need to make this assessment in the Riigikogu as a draft for the transposition of the directive. This assessment has long been made and confirmed by the Riigikogu in the Committee on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U243	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U244	Thank you. Thanks for the answer, but I didn't get a little bit of a clue. We've had the healing process for a long time. We have a choice of reorganisation or bankruptcy. In fact, there is also a counsellor who can help an entrepreneur or self-employed person understand what is best for him, what this timeline could be. What does this law now make better or easier through this trustee? The fact that a selfe takes the path of kamikaze is no great secret to anyone, he is responsible for all his property. I do not see what this law now makes better than what is currently in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U245	Thank you. The reorganisation advisors really do exist and maybe in their case this bill only changes the fact that they will be placed on the list there is a single list of where they are, and they will have to comply with certain qualifications requirements. In short, this control will be increased. Now, in the case of counselors, it's still not regulated, they're often random people. Strangely enough, a person can now appoint himself as his counselor. If you face financial difficulties, it is highly unlikely that you will be able to come out of trouble without outside help or support from the outsider. It is now precisely for natural persons that the situation is that they certainly have a counselor. A person can no longer counsel himself in the future, but someone else can advise him. These people must meet certain qualifications requirements, form a list of bailiffs and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators and ensure that these people have the necessary knowledge and skills. They can also be compensated, it is no longer such a free, charitable [aid]. In addition, in practice, it has been [had] that if people do not appoint themselves as counselors, there could be acquaintances and relatives who may not always be objective to the end, right? This too [will change]. And I certainly want to point out that the insolvency of a natural person is not only about self-employed people, but also about ordinary people when they get into difficulties, debts, whether they are entrepreneurs or not. And since the self-employed are really responsible for all their assets, which could make their personal life very difficult as a result of their business difficulties, it is very important that they do not go into bankruptcy proceedings. If they begin to experience difficulties, there could be [opportunity] for debt restructuring, so that only their entrepreneurial side would suffer and the party, or personal, could suffer as little as possible. So that people do not rush into bankruptcy proceedings and then get rid of the bail-in procedure. [[They say something in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U246	Thank you. No further questions. Let's go to the second report. I'd like to ask for a chair of the Chair of the Legal Affairs Committee, Mr. Marek Jürgenson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U247	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed draft law 575 on 11 April this year. The Minister also briefed the members of the Commission. And I will also tell you what happened to us in that committee. Members of the Commission had quite a number of questions on this subject. For example, Tarmo Kruusimäe asked the Minister whether there was a trend in society that people would be insolvent and, if so, whether it was related to what was happening in Ukraine. Of course, Minister Maris Lauri replied that the issues of insolvency have been dealt with before 24 February, and this specific draft has been dealt with for a long time, and it is another similar solution in addition to resolving the issues of bankruptcy law. The anti-Semimets said that the materials were thorough and looked at which country had been used as an example and how many people could get involved in such a procedure a year. The minister replied that Finland, for example, had been taken as an example. But the people who could get into this kind of procedure are around a thousand. Urve Tiidus was interested in who might be the trustees, that is, taking up office as trustee. In addition, Maris Lauri and Kristiina Padu of the Ministry of Justice replied that in some cases the trustees are people who already act as debt advisors, but they may also be people who are currently working in bankruptcy. As an important addition, Kristiina Padu said that certain conditions were laid down for trustees to be included in the list of trustees, and this list would be kept by the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators. Tarmo Kruusimäe was interested in why this topic has risen to the agenda and whether it would be possible to continue the procedure after 9 May, when it is a more peaceful period, and, at the moment, to focus on more urgent drafts. On top of that, as chairman of the committee, I confirmed that it was important to proceed with the procedure because the triggers of entry into force are close. As the Minister mentioned earlier, the date for entry into force is currently 1 July. Then Tarmo Kruusimäe suggested that the dates of entry into force could also be moved, because it is essentially a draft of a period of peace. But Minister Lauri replied that not only do people's business debts, people get into debt for other reasons. It is therefore reasonable to proceed with this procedure. Finally, Tarmo Kruusimäe found that when the first talk was about bankruptcy, there is now also talk about SMS loans, which is getting too spread out. Thus, the questions [presented] and the answers were received. Procedural decisions were taken. Firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 20 April, which is today. There was 5: Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Jaanus Karilaid, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Thomas. There were 0 abstentions and 3: Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe and Anti Poolamets. It was proposed to finish the first reading: by Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Jaanus Karilaid, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast, impartial Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe and Anti Poolamets. The deadline for amendments was 4 May at 4 p.m.; there was a consensus on this. Marek Jürgenson became the representative of the commission at first and second reading, and there was a consensus on this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U248	You can ask two questions for two performers. We don't have any questions right now. Thank you very much. Now we can open negotiations if that is what we want. But there is no wish for negotiations, so I will close the negotiations. Then it is that the lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 575 be stopped. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 May this year at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U249	We will proceed to today's sixth item on the agenda: First reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related to it. I call Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaan as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U250	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! I will introduce to the Riigikogu the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act developed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and related amendments to other laws approved by the Government of the Republic on 17 February. The amendments to the bill are motivated by the need to implement a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing an entry/exit system in Estonia, called the Entry/Exit System in English. It is an information system of the European Union that is used by all Member States for border control, migration monitoring, visa procedures and the fight against terrorism and other serious crime. The system is managed and stored by the European Union IT Agency eu-LISA, whose headquarters are known to be located in Tallinn. The aim of the system is to connect border crossing points across the European Union into a single information community. When approving the draft, we can enter into this information system all third-country nationals who cross the Schengen external borders for a short stay, whether visa-free or visa-free. I stress that the data of Estonia and [other] citizens and residents of the European Union are not entered or processed in the information system. The purpose of the information system is to record the date, time and place of entry and exit of a third-country national crossing the external border, to calculate the duration of his authorised stay and to transmit an alert to the Member State once the person's authorised stay has expired. The period of stay of foreigners will be taken into account electronically and the passport will no longer be issued for border crossing stamps. A separate file shall be created in the European Union Central System for each border crossing point, including personal data, travel document data, facial image and fingerprints. There is currently a system where a large number of Member States register entry and exit when crossing borders, but if, for example, the Schengen area is entered through Estonia and exited through Latvia, there is no overall picture and there is no knowledge that the person has actually left the Schengen area. The EES helps to detect cross-border travellers using multiple identities and improves the quality of border controls by automatically calculating the authorised length of stay of each traveller. In addition, the new system will help ensure the systematic and reliable identification of overstayers, allowing law enforcement authorities access to previous journeys and personal data, thereby strengthening the fight against terrorism and internal security as a whole. The draft also introduces minor changes. For example, by amending the arms law, the European Union's Border and Coast Guard Agency, or Frontex, is granted the right to come to Estonia for a joint operation with its service weapon. By amending the State Border Act, the police are granted the right to remove customs seals at the border crossing point and the Minister of the Interior to appoint representatives of the Estonian border. It is expressly stated that vehicles [including those] crossing the external borders which have not electronically booked their time in the order of border crossings are not liable to pay for [border crossing]. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U251	Thank you. But I don't see any questions. That's it, let's get another waitress. Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U252	Mr President, Members of Parliament and all the participants in the sitting. The draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and related amendments to other laws was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 11 April. The draft was presented by the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan, and the ministerial officials Janek Mägi, Kaspar Lepper and Ülle Väina and Commission advisor Carina Rikart participated in the discussion. From the Minister's presentation, I will only repeat the main point of view that a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council adopted in 2017 establishes a system of data to record the entry and exit of third-country nationals crossing the external borders of the Member States, as well as to record information on refusal of entry. The conditions for access to the system for law enforcement purposes will be defined as a logical continuation. And the aim of the system, as you have already heard, is to improve the management of external borders, reduce illegal immigration and help prevent and combat terrorism and other serious crime. The members of the Commission also received answers to a number of questions. For example, the question was whether the sharing of information would take place between the border guards of all Member States under this EES, under the EES. From the Minister's explanation, we have heard that the data is stored in the so-called EES Central System, to which all the Member States of the European Union provide information, and is managed by the European Union Agency for the Operational Management of Large-Scale IT Systems, eu-LISA, which has its head office in Tallinn, as you already know. Minister Jaani replied that citizens entering third countries without a visa or with a short-stay visa must provide fingerprints and [take a photo] for facial biometrics on their first entry. For this purpose, the necessary fingerprint and facial biometric equipment has been acquired so that it can be done automatically. One Member of the Commission expressed the opinion that this is an indication of distrust in countries to which there is nothing to blame in relation to terrorism and other serious crime. There was also a question from the Polish forest of whether it would be possible to impose entirely separate rules on third countries which are dangerous to terrorism and immigration. The Minister explained that the discussions on this directly applicable regulation of the European Union were conducted in 2017, which is then five years ago, and that the final result that we are now seeking to incorporate into our laws is the result of compromises, the result of major compromises. Janek Mägi, Head of the Border and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, added that the aim is to bring border crossings of third-country nationals into a fully digitised form, which means that all data must be included in the system. However, for permanent border crossingrs this process is a one-off process, the following border crossings will compare the data with the data given at first entry, and ultimately people's lives should become more comfortable. At the same time, as a result of the activation of the EES system, statistics are clearly visible throughout Europe from which [where] and which people are moving. This will help authorities to better plan their activities. There you go. Perhaps it is also worth repeating the fact that it is not possible for Member States to obtain biometric data from these databases at any moment, this fear or concern may have a separate multi-stage procedure for the investigation of terrorism, and serious crimes [other]. And there is another good thing about this system, which was emphasised by the representatives of the ministry in the Commission: the system lists those people who had to leave the country on a given day but did not. The chairman of the committee summarised the whole debate as follows: the EES system makes the situation easier and does not affect the people of Estonia, but it can help to make the local people feel secure. Procedural decisions were then taken: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 20 April (by 7, 0 abstentions), to propose that the first reading be closed (by 7, 0 abstentions), to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 May at 4 p.m. (there was a consensus here) and to appoint Urve Tiidus as rapporteur for the lead committee (also here was a consensus among the members of the committee). Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U253	Thank you. Otherwise, you could ask questions, but you don't want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U254	It's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U255	Then I'll open the negotiations. No one wants that either. I'm closing the negotiations. It is the case that the lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 532 be completed. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 4 May at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U256	Today's seventh item is the draft law on the amendment of the state border law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 577, which is also at first reading. I call Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaan as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U257	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! The Ministry of the Interior has developed a draft law amending the State Border Act and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic approved the draft on 5 April. The amendments to the draft act are primarily driven by the hybrid attacks carried out by Belarus on the external borders of Lithuania, Latvia and Poland in 2021, but they are not completed to date either. There are still at least 300 attempts to enter the territory of the European Union by Belarus every week in the course of a hybrid attack, and dozens of them will succeed. Action using immigration as a tool for hybrid attacks is illegal and endangers human lives. This is contrary to international law and is a security threat to the whole of the European Union. Legal space must also comply with such legal regimes. The aim of the draft is to prevent and resolve the emergency situation caused by mass immigration, where foreigners enter Estonia illegally through the external borders by using violence and ignoring border control arrangements. To this end, the main changes to the draft are as follows: The Police and Border Guard Board shall be given the opportunity to determine the locations where an alien must lodge an application for international protection. In the event of an emergency, the Police and Border Guard Board shall be given the opportunity to return aliens who have crossed the external borders illegally without a letter of departure or a decision refusing entry in order to protect public order or national security. In this case, the Police and Border Guard Board may refuse to accept an application for international protection from an alien who did not enter through a border inspection post. The border guard may continue to be admitted to the country of the alien, of course, for humane reasons. In the event of an emergency, the court shall be allowed to suspend the expulsion of an alien who has crossed the external borders illegally only until the first instance of the court if the alien has lodged a complaint against expulsion and the court has dismissed it. The amendment ensures that an alien cannot delay expulsion by lodging unfounded complaints. In an emergency, legal aid is granted to an alien only at first instance if he or she has entered Estonia illegally through the external borders or has filed a clearly unfounded application for international protection. In the event of an emergency, the record of procedural procedures shall be simplified. According to the Bill, a single act allows several persons to be apprehended and an alien to confirm the accuracy of the data by electronic means. At the moment, a personal, individual detention protocol must be made for everyone. In addition, the Police and Border Guard Board is granted the right to include the Defence Forces and the Defence League for more than 30 days in order to ensure public order. The current law allows the Defence League to be involved for only 30 days and cannot be extended except in exceptional circumstances. Any foreigner who wishes to enter Estonia and stay here must comply with the requirements of entry and public order. I believe that we have achieved the necessary balance with the draft in order, on the one hand, to help those foreigners who need international protection from Estonia, on the other hand, to prevent and prevent the abuse of legal migration channels and the potential threats to Estonian internal security arising from hybrid attacks on mass immigration. Thank you. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U258	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U259	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I certainly do not claim to be an expert in this area, and so my question may seem strange. But I have a question about how to actually distinguish between those who escape death or war from those so-called green men who actually use these escapeers as a shield. [How to do this] if such a procedure does not take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U260	Thank you for your question. Several aspects. First of all, we must take into account that we are going to assess the situation when there is a mass illegal crossing of the border. The best thing to do is to give ourselves a picture of what we saw when [the case] organised Belarus's Lukashenka masquerading. By force, a large number of people are being pushed from the border crossing area to the country. In that case, it is an emergency, and the police may, if this law is passed, direct such people back to where they came from. To illustrate this even better, [it is necessary] that the entire border zone, with a width of up to five kilometres in Estonia, can be redirected back to where they came from. But once again: this means that [border crossing] must indeed be massive and people must have crossed the border illegally using violence. An emergency situation must be implemented and there must also be open border crossing points through which an application for international protection can be made. There are also judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in this regard, which describe very specifically how countries can behave in this situation. Those who enter through border crossing points will be dealt with as they should, as the country has put in place these arrangements. But, indeed, for those who want to come mass and use violence illegally, it is important to reject them and direct them to actually enter the country through border crossing points.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U261	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U262	Thank you. Thank you for conjuring these pictures. But unfortunately, we can't include these pictures or television shots in the law. We need to understand clearly the text of the law, we need to understand what it is. Didn't I read well, or is it somewhere else defined by law, but what is this mass border crossing? How much is mass? And is it in one hour, in one day, in one month? When will the Police and Border Guard Board have the right, for example, to reject women fleeing a nuclear disaster along with their children from a five-mile area?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U263	Thank you. In the latter example, it is certainly a humane matter and different measures are in place. But when we talk about how to define mass in this context, we need to talk about how it has been described in the emergency plan due to mass immigration. The emergency plan will be implemented if the institution to which border surveillance is a day-to-day task is no longer able to carry out this task with its daily resources. If the Police and Border Guard Board cannot do so alone in this situation, it must, for example, involve the Defence League, such as the Defence Forces, such as other partners, as well as volunteers to carry out their daily duties. This is actually the emergency, and then we're talking about the masses. It could be 100 people, it could be 50 people, it could be 1,000 people. Once again, it is important that the authority responsible for this activity is no longer able to manage its daily resources on its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U264	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U265	Thank you. Well, unfortunately, the emergency plan is not part of the law, is it? And the people who read the law don't know how to find that tape to see if their rights have been violated or not. And indeed, perhaps the picture I have been conjured is a disaster for which [in particular humaneness is needed]. But we are talking about women fleeing war or a nuclear disaster with children who may be in an affective state, so that they start breaking our border facilities, illegally attacking our borders to save their lives and their children's lives. And what we are talking about here is that no conversation with them is an emergency, a massive illegal crossing of the border. Let's push them away from five kilometers without a word. But in fact, these people need protection. They need someone to save their lives, they are invading Estonia because of this. "Please save us! " But we don't talk to them. Sometimes we don't speak their language either. Who, and at what point, still determines that this is a disaster, not a green man, as Helmen Kütt called them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U266	Thank you. I always like to give examples, but it's better to understand than to give an example. I will give an example of what we are seeing today, unfortunately, on the border between Ukraine and Poland, where people fleeing the war from Ukraine cross the external borders. In this situation, the Polish State has made border crossings very easy for humane reasons. There are very large masses crossing the external borders, and Poland has made it very humane, very fast. Exactly the same situation, I hope that this will never happen here in Estonia, as a neighbouring country, a foreign country, which in our case can be the Russian Federation, people will come to Estonia because of some kind of disaster. Then it will also be possible to open border crossing points for humane reasons in order to allow people to pass through there with greater capacity. In this situation, I would argue that in Estonia, people would still come through the border crossing point and not through the landscape in the area between the border crossing points. All the more so, given the landscape at our external borders, I fear that it will be very difficult for these people to reach this area between the two border crossing points. But once again, I assure you that, of course, in such a situation [prevailing] humane considerations. This draft law addresses violent and migration through instrumentalisation in the embezzlement of some dictators and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U267	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U268	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I've been asked by several, say, border guards. The example is now that in Russia, financial forces and armed forces will decide that such an arrangement is not appropriate, something else will happen, and people will flee. And now that they come not across the landline, but across Lake Peipsi with rubber boats. In fact, on the first boats there may be women and children in front, but in the back, we don't know if there are just fishermen and they're wearing a camo by accident or by accident. Question: how do you behave? Because officers can't open fire on women and children. Have you thought that if we passed this law, there would be a specific order, not just case-by-case [behaviour]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U269	Thank you. I still like to give an example of Lake Peipsi. Lake Peipsi, of course, has a very good early detection system. Lake Peipsi is 100% covered with surveillance systems and it is possible to intervene very early. And the practice is that the only offenders on Lake Peipsi are fishermen in both summer and winter who do not know where to fish and where not to fish. But in this situation, of course, once again, each country has a sovereign right to defend its borders and, if necessary, to use a special instrument. In your example, no one will ever use a weapon. When you say that women and children come in a rubber boat, these people will be accepted on humane grounds, they will probably seek international protection and this will also be dealt with. So there are a wide range of examples. I believe in our border guards that they can handle border surveillance very well. And once again, what I am talking about here is still a specific massive use of violence at the border crossing, where migration is actually used in the interests of someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U270	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U271	Thank you, good waitress. Good President! You vividly described the situations that were on the borders of our neighbours some time ago. And it is very clear here, as you have said today, that [it is the case], where [people] cross the border mass and use violence. And then you used, like, a euphemism like this, that if they get in here massively, we're going to reroute them. I was very interested to see if you could describe how we were going to redirect them back. Are these methods written somewhere, and is it said anywhere that power can be used? If so, how big? This is important in this sense in order to avoid any legal disputes after that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U272	Thank you. Of course, the police in Estonia can use force to guard the border. If someone breaks the border, crosses the border illegally or, worse, using violence, of course, including self-defense, all those prescribed by law and used by the police can be used for special purposes. So, of course, physical force, physical coercion can be used to protect the border and to direct people back and advise them to enter the country through the border crossing point. It is important that border crossing points should be open for the purpose of legal entry and, if necessary, also filing an application for international protection at the border crossing point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U273	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U274	Thank you. This is a bit bumpy, this first paragraph, you will probably understand, § 910: if an external border is illegally crossed, it may be sent back if an alien was able to enter Estonia through an open border crossing point. As I understand it, if there's some kind of huge border crossing, some kind of a couple hundred people, we're gonna grab them and reroute them. But which way: through an open border crossing point, or do we leave them in that neutral zone? We also have to take into account that probably the Russian side does not want to see them either, and so they remain in that floating state. At the same time, they are in trouble, they have no food, no drink, no children, no health. How long will the Estonian border guard last and, for humanitarian reasons, will not transport them to our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U275	Thank you for your question. I want to stress that there is no neutral zone between countries. There is a very specific border line that runs between the two countries, there is no neutral zone. There is no no man's land, there is the land of one country and there is the land of another. And, of course, it is [important] where these people are resident in this country who are responsible for [all] and must act. This wording, which you referred to as bumpy, has been taken from the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights: what is the situation where you do not have to take applications for international protection when you cross the border by mass and using violence, and can send people back to the country right where they came from without writing a letter of departure. The next assumption is that these people must be able to enter the country through an open border crossing point. And the PBGB can very specifically define that people can enter these border crossing points and that a procedure will be carried out there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U276	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U277	Thank you. In response to Kalle Grünthal, you used the words'specific border line', which in our case will then be protected from mass violent invasions. But we know very well that we don't have a border line on a large scale, border times, nothing. How are you going to enforce this law if we do not have a proper line to defend against violent mass by force? They're essentially gaining weight, getting their toes over this line, and then we're going to process it, or how do you imagine it in real life?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U278	Thank you for your question. There's still a border. The border is marked very nicely today and the border line is very well seen on the landscape where it runs. Again, this draft law [means], once again I stress the corresponding conditions: emergency, violence. We do not process [nothing], it is necessary to identify that people have crossed the border. The border is marked out very specifically. There is no situation where we do not understand where there is a transnational border. Yeah, in our case, it's a control line, but it's just that these people aren't accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U279	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U280	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kristian Jaani! We speak beautiful words on this board and refer to human rights rulings, but real life is actually different. Let us remember what happened on the Belarusian-Lithuania border. People were trapped there between two power structures. Wasn't it? It doesn't matter if he has legs on one side or on the other side of the border, just stays there because neither side keeps going. The question is, what does the Estonian border guard do: will this person finally be allowed to starve, or will it be reasonable for us to build border facilities that cannot be overcome so easily?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U281	Thank you. That's the kind of border facilities we have today in construction, that's exactly the kind of border facilities we do. But once again, a person cannot be trapped between two countries. It is either the responsibility of one country or the responsibility of another. And the state must intervene, whether for humane reasons or other reasons. A man can't be trapped anywhere between two countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U282	Kalle Grünthal has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U283	Thank you. I would point out that I had 15 seconds left to talk, but Kristian Jaan started talking first, and then I had my microphone turned off. Let me still say no thank you, and then we can turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U284	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U285	Yeah, well, sometimes it happens, but let's try to get everyone to finish their message. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U286	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I was motivated by your reply to the Moonika Helme. I ask whether there is an opportunity today, for example, on 9 May, to set up such a mental border on European values on the filter path and then, in accordance with this draft law, to protect it. And there's a will, I hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U287	Thank you for your question. Of course, I think we've all set this mental boundary with our messages when it comes to symbols and everything that goes with them. I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U288	Now, the questions are over. Thank you very much. I'd like a chair for a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mart Võrguship.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U289	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 12 April 2022, the Constitutional Commission discussed the preparation for the first reading of the draft law amending the State Border Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. The Commission was invited by Mr Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior, Mr Veiko Kombusaar, Deputy Chancellor of Internal Security, Law Enforcement and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, and Mr Janek Mägi, Head of the Border and Migration Policy Department of the same Ministry. Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani, gave a thorough overview, just like today in this Chamber, I wouldn't repeat that. Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs Kalle Grünthal asked whether the draft had been coordinated, negotiated with the relevant ministries and other parties. Minister Jaani confirmed that the experts have worked very closely with the courts and that a common understanding has been reached during the discussions with the Ministry of Justice, the Defence Forces, the Defence League and the Ministry of Defence. My colleague, Mr Odines, asked essentially the same questions that were in this Chamber, I am not going to repeat them. There were the same questions and the same answers. My colleague, Urmas Reinsalu, praised this draft, said that it was a well done draft. He indicated that applications would not be accepted under normal circumstances outside the country, except in the case of resettlement and relocation, which are special cases. He asked whether the logic of the border inspection post only works for those who are physically expelled from the country and their names are recorded and only those persons are allowed to enter the application of the border inspection post. Mr Jaani replied that applications for international protection could be submitted at the border inspection post in any circumstances. Urmas Reinsalu said he doesn't understand. If all border crossing points can submit an application, why is such a specific distinction made between a couple of border crossing points? Perhaps it would not be necessary to specify the border crossing point, it could be said that applications can be submitted at each border crossing point. We are then talking about the appointment of specific border crossing points where applications can be submitted. Mr Jaani explained that it was based on the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights which say that such border crossing points must be clearly defined. Janek Mägi added that Luhamaa and Koidula, for example, are relatively close to the south-eastern corner of Estonia and that for normal border crossings, border traffic is defined as Luhamaa border crossing point and that applications for international protection are not accepted there. All applicants will be referred to the border inspection post of Koidula, which will establish the appropriate centre of procedure and the necessary capacity for this. Urmas Reinsalu said that since the law is about an extreme situation, the question arises as to whether there should be some kind of defence mechanism with which the border points would be closed. Janek Mägi said it was true. Under the law, the Minister will be able to close all border crossing points and then have to be approved by the Government. Urmas Reinsalu agreed, but said that the text of the current draft states that if there is mass chaos, then border crossing points must be guaranteed, and the law is still higher than the decision of the Minister. Minister Jaani stated that border crossing points must be mentioned, but border crossing points need not be open at all times. Mr Breivel said that he is concerned when it comes to violent border crossings, how it is ensured that lethal force can be used if it is necessary. He explained that his question concerned the use of the Defence League and the Defence Forces. Kristian Jaani said that the use of weapons and special equipment is guaranteed in every way by law enforcement law, which gives the right and describes precisely in which cases and which special equipment or firearms can be used. With regard to the involvement of the Defence Union, the PBGB and the Defence Union have specific agreements on the amount of resources to help the PBGB over a certain period of time. Veiko Kombusaar explained that in Estonia the experience of cooperation with the Defence League and the Defence Forces is more immediate than colleagues from the [other] Baltic States, because the Defence League has already been used for various border operations, including border prevention. For example, the Defence Forces are involved in transporting barbed wire to the border to strengthen the border. And since the state [may] have a situation where the Defence Forces and the Defence League cannot be used in [necessary] scale, efforts are being made today to ensure that the border guard units of Frontex are in Estonia. Currently, a 20-man unit already exists in Estonia. Oudekki Loone asked whether, for humane reasons, the mass admission of foreigners is possible in a situation where everyone agrees that this is not a politically motivated attack, but a [real] mass escape from some immediate threat. This was the same kind of debate that took place earlier in this Chamber. Mr Jaani took the example of today's Polish-Ukrainian border with the situation of humaneism, and stressed that, even in a war situation, border crossings still pass through border crossing points, but under extremely simplified procedures. Everyone understands that there is a [humanitarian crisis], the boundaries are open, and there is a simple procedure and a quick crossing. Toomas Kivimägi asked if he understood correctly that if there is a threat to public order or national security and other criteria have been met, the simplified procedure can be implemented and it does not matter whether it is due to war, humanitarian disaster or such on the other hand. He is convinced that this should be the case, because national security and public order are forcing it to be implemented. He also asked me to explain how the emergency would be fixed, whose authority was to decide. Mr Jaani explained that there are four emergency situations to manage the PBA, one of which is an emergency caused by mass immigration. It shall be established by the Director-General of the PBA by his own decree, but may also be a protocol decision, which shall be fixed. It's exactly the same way the emergency ends. If there is a massive violent border crossing at the border and ordinary resources cannot be managed, this is an emergency, no matter what the cause is. Today's best example is instrumentalisation by Belarus. Mr Kivimägi proposed that the following procedural decisions be taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 20 April (approved by consensus), to propose that the first reading be closed (approved by consensus in the same way), to appoint Mart Võrguship, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the representative of the leading committee. Toomas Kivimägi noted that after the first reading, consideration should be given to merging and merging the two possible drafts, as a draft with the same objective has also been initiated by the Isamaa Group and has passed the first reading in plenary. This issue will certainly be discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs after the completion of the first reading. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the deadline for submitting amendments was 10 working days. That's a review. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U290	Thank you. But there are no questions. Thank you very much. Now we can go to the negotiations. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U291	Mr President, thank you very much. Honourable Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I came to the remote to say that this is perhaps a small-scale draft, but with regard to the security and public order of the Estonian state. Estonia is the rule of law and Estonia must also be the rule of law in crisis situations. Whether there is an emergency or an emergency, there must also be legal regulation in such cases, how and how to manage the security and public order of the Estonian state. Indeed, it has to be admitted that, at the moment, there is a small gap in our code for situations similar to those that occurred only recently on the Polish border and also on the Lithuanian border. This so-called Belarus hybrid attack is clearly the motive for this draft. Let us say that there is, in fact, no effective legal response to such attacks in our Code at the moment. Indeed, it is not possible to carry out all kinds of procedures in such situations. Anyone can pretend and file an application for international protection or do anything. In this case, it is not possible to carry out procedures to ensure public order and security in Estonia. As I have pointed out, the motive is the hybrid attack on Belarus. At this point, I would like to congratulate the Fatherland, which has actually already presented the draft cited by the Mart Võrguship. The Fatherland was somewhat faster here, but the decision-making process of the government is known to be longer and somewhat slower. At the same time, the government's draft is considerably more meaningful and nuclear. But the very same purpose really does carry the bill submitted by the Fatherland. I do agree with this in order to acknowledge it by considering merging two drafts after the completion of the first reading, this initiative would indeed have been noted. One of the keywords here is that there was also talk in the Commission, and the Commission rapporteur here also mentioned this: how [the law] will apply when it comes to a humanitarian disaster. In this case, is it possible to apply this simplified procedure, whose English name is push back, which is easier to understand. In this case, there is virtually no procedure, there is no procedure, but people are simply rejected if they express themselves brutally. Often, there is no other way to respond to such illegal conduct than the way the other party does. In fact, it does not matter why this situation has arisen. When it comes to illegal mass border crossings and now I stress, if there is a threat to Estonian public order or security, no matter what the reason for the other party's mass border crossings, the same simplified push back will still apply, i.e. the return of those people to where they come from. It doesn't matter in that sense. But, of course, an emergency is an essential condition. So there is always a point of consideration that, when it comes to a humanitarian disaster, it is quite likely that people will actually come through an open border crossing point or gather there to get across the border, and in this case this simplified procedure will not apply. And then, of course, there is no possibility of declaring an emergency. But even in that case, once again, what matters is the public order and security of our own country, regardless of what is the cause of this war, the humanitarian disaster or whatever. If, after all, there is a threat to the public order and security of our own country, it must and can be implemented. And indeed, maybe there is another place that needs to be specified. We have also discussed here a little bit about how and whether [at all] this procedure can also be implemented at the open border crossing points where an application for international protection can be made. It's a matter of its own. In this case, this draft does mean, above all, that this illegal border crossing takes place not at an open border crossing point, but somewhere else. As the Minister pointed out, generally such illegal border crossings take place outside open border crossing points because... I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U292	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U293	... at open border crossing points, the state's readiness to serve these people as well as in terms of security is certainly greater. This [option elsewhere] is generally used, but in theory we are able to create a structure in which a mass illegal border crossing is also planned at an open border crossing point. So what are our responses? There are mechanisms for this, there is an emergency or whatever. Once again, however, an important clarification is that it is not applicable at public border crossing points, but there must indeed be a solution there too. So I sincerely congratulate the Ministry for this draft and I sincerely congratulate all the political groups represented in Parliament, because at least all the representatives of the political groups represented in Parliament in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs supported the completion of the first reading. This bill will strengthen our country, security and public order.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U294	Thank you. Eduard Odines, please! (Eduard Odines asks for more time.) Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U295	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Of course, the Social Democrats are also standing by for the Estonian state to be protected, so that the Estonian border is protected, so that the Estonian border should be maintained. And, of course, the security and public order of our country are also extremely important for the social democrats. Today we are discussing amendments to the State Border Act, which gives our Police and Border Guard Board the right, if necessary, to send as far away from the territory of Estonia as possible those who cause mass immigration, do so illegally, threaten public order and the security of the state. And if they were able to cross the border even in the designated place, then without an exit letter and without an entry ban decision, these people could be rejected. Looks like a perfectly suitable solution. However, we see certain dangers here. And the most important danger we see in this system is whether the border guard who makes the decision in this situation, in which there is mass border crossing, illegal mass crossing, which may be a threat to the Estonian state, can, without talking to people, decide on the ground somewhere between the swamps and forests that people who are fleeing and trying to cross the border do not really need protection. International law tells us that people who need protection must have the right to seek protection. We are applying the system, and if it seems to us that these people have not come because of a human disaster or some other catasroph, which is not a hybrid attack on Estonia, and are trying to cross our borders, we reject them without exploring what is the real reason. Are these women and children used as shields, or do they really need the protection of our country? Apparently very often those border guards who may even be able to exchange some words with those who are trying to break our border facilities do not know the language spoken by those immigrants who are trying to cross the border on a massive scale. [How then] to find out whether there is a real reason or not. No, we are simply rejecting them because it seems to us that they are a threat to the Estonian state that they must not be in this country. And what's the masseuse? As I have understood, and as I have heard from the answers today, there is no definition of what is mass. There may also be five [of men], 50 or 500 people. Each assessment shall be made on a case-by-case basis whether there is an emergency or not. Pictures of the Belarusian border are being prepared. But we also look at other situations. For example, when people, family, mother and children fleeing from Ukraine via Russia, try to get to Estonia. It may not be possible for him to use other possibilities than to come to Estonia through the forest. Because we also know these cases if Russia does not allow Ukrainian citizens out of Russia so that they can get into the European Union. So what's the other option? And then we say that you have to go through an open public border crossing point and there like order and court to apply for your protection. He might never make it. Furthermore, where does a person who needs real protection need to know where there are these open public official points in our country where he can apply for protection? A person flees for his life and health, saves his life, saves the lives of his children, saves the lives of his loved ones. He is not thinking about examining whether he is a mass immigrant, whether he is an illegal immigrant and where these official public border crossing points are open. He's just running away. And we don't talk to him, we think he's a threat to the Estonian state, public order. I'm not saying all cases are like this. There are certainly also cases that we have seen on other European Union borders, where there is an illegal and imposed border crossing, which is used as a hybrid attack. But not everyone is like that. But I'm saying that if one family, even one mother and a child that we reject in the same way, gets hurt, then we're part of it, too, because we didn't even listen to her when she tried to cross the border. The Estonian border must, of course, be protected. Of course, we must not allow people here who want to harm our country and our public order. But have we really thought through all these steps how not to hurt people who need real protection with it? We may not even listen to them, because we feel that they are a threat to the Estonian public order. We will not accept their request for protection, we will not listen to them, we will draw up a group detention protocol for them and send them out in groups. Is this appropriate for a democratic country? In some cases it may be true, but any person who needs protection must have the right to apply for protection. With this law, we do not give that right very much. We do not propose to reject the draft. Of course it's necessary. But I very much hope that, by combining these drafts, we will consider different options in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and try to make this law a law that really rejects people who are trying to hurt us, but will not leave those people who need real protection and who are fleeing either a natural disaster or a nuclear disaster or war and are trying to get protection from us, as very many people in Ukraine are trying to do. So let us still try to get through with this law so that we don't throw the baby out with the washing water! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-20_U296	I don't see any more wish for negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 577 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. this year. Our agenda today is over. The sitting is adjourned.
