ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would once again point out that there is a maximum speaking time of two minutes, including the submission of possible motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to the analysis of the study information. We are very pleased with that. We had made that request with several MPs. Among other things, I have called for this with Mr Mohandis of the PvdA. I'm glad the Minister is picking this up with fire. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, among other things, half of the HBO students are not satisfied with the integration into the labour market and if education is not well suited, students need to spend a long time looking for a job, eventually taking a job at a lower level or not finding a job at all;]] [[Whereas, in the case of new training, it is assessed whether they are likely to be in line with the labour market and society through the macro-efficiency test, but not in the case of existing training;]] [[noting that the higher education system lacks an incentive for training to focus on the integration of the labour market and society;]] [[Considers that higher education training should aim to ensure a proper link with the labour market and society in order to provide a good future perspective for students and, where this is insufficient, training should make efforts to improve this, for example by adapting the education programme;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the proposal of the Interurban Student Consultation, to propose a periodic review of the link to the labour market and society for existing supply in higher education, with the ultimate medium enabling the Minister of Education to intervene in training where necessary, and to inform the Chamber by this summer at the latest in the exploration of macro-efficiency of how this can take place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Duisenberg and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-531]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u3	I would like to ask Mr Duisenberg whether I have just heard correctly, because I have not seen the motion before, namely that there is a clear distinction between HBO and wo and that it is a question of not only looking at labour market standards, but also at social standards and the added value of training. I'd like to get a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u4	Can I ask Mr Van Meenen to listen to the debate on the motion that he has tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr Mohandis was right to hear that. This is in line with the proposal of the Interurban Student Consultation (ISO). We actually accept that proposal and ask the Minister to take it up. This also concerns the distinction between the labour market and society. In fact, the methodology already distinguishes between scientific education and HBO. The Minister's approach will, of course, have to take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u6	I don't have a question anymore. I welcome Mr Duisenberg's very nuanced view on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u7	I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of the D66 Group. He will also be given two minutes' speaking time, including the submission of any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. In general, I have considered the very shadowy and dark selection at the gate that is currently taking place by means of the decentralised selection. I have advocated a temporary reintroduction of draw to make it all more transparent and fair. I shall now abstain from a motion because the Chamber and the Minister have not yet reached that stage. But there's gonna be elections and we're gonna see it all. I have a motion that deals with access to the master's degree programmes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that selection is taking place in an increasing number of Master's programmes, leading to a race between courses not to be selected last and the risk that almost all Master's programmes will be selected;]] [[Whereas it is better to improve the quality of the bachelor's programme than to select it at the port of master's programmes;]] [[Whereas each student should be able to access a master's degree which is consistent with the bachelor's content;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to no longer allow the selection of Master's programmes, except under high exception and with the explicit consent of the Co-operation Council and the Minister for Education, Culture and Science,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Meenen and Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-532]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's commitment to return to the matching procedures before the summer, on which I have tabled a motion earlier. I look forward to that. I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the influx into primary school education (pabo-training) training courses has also declined by 32% on a national basis due to stricter admission requirements and that a teacher shortage is particularly imminent in large cities;]] [[Whereas stricter admission requirements may have a positive impact on the status of pabo-training, the status of the teacher's profession and the quality of education for our children;]] [[Whereas no profile on the HAVO is fully in line with the curriculum of the pabo-training, whereas an appropriate curriculum may increase the chances of successful influx into and completion of the pabo-training course also for male and immigrant pupils;]] [[Whereas the Christian University of Ede, in cooperation with small-scale vocational schools, is to experiment with teachnasia in which havescholiers with an extensive curriculum are prepared for the pabo;]] [[requests the Government,]] [[encourage intensive cooperation within the G4 between pabo's, secondary education and aldermen's education aimed at improving the flow from vo to pabo;]] [[in consultation with teacher training courses and the supplying vo-field, to ensure sustainable optimisation of the connection of the Havo to the pabo;]] [[inform the Chamber of progress as soon as possible, but no later than autumn 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-533]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u10	Is it possible to consider making this the first time you have used the word "pabo": teaching academy for primary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u11	That is absolutely a good suggestion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. I look back at a good debate on several issues during the general discussion. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments she has made during this general consultation. This is particularly true of Mr Duisenberg's plea to review the choice of study information and to carry out research in order to ensure that the information is reliable and independent and that students know what they are getting into. At that time, I made a point of forcing information on internship opportunities. The Minister will take this into account in the investigation. I look forward to that. In addition, I made a point of matching conversations where everything goes online without personal contact. I await the commitment in line with Mr Rog's motion. The Minister has promised that at the end of 2016 the Chamber will receive the monitoring on accessibility and selection. Will the Minister take the message that we have received that Avans Hogeschool at the gate is going to test widely on English? It's a pretty vague story, because the question that comes up is what this means if the desired level of English is not reached. Don't you get to start the training, or do you have to quit? I would like to get a reaction to this, because this is a matter of concern to me. I would like to see the trend towards this type of selection included in that monitoring. Because of the Minister's commitments during the general consultation, I have no reason to make motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u13	Couldn't have done that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u14	I can read to you very quickly if I have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. Access to higher education is under pressure as a result of both a variety of shady selection criteria that can increasingly introduce training from the government and the financial conditions that threaten accessibility. I've checked the two motions I'd like to file, oh no, for English and abbreviations. I think they can pass this chairman's rigorous test. We'll see. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and more training courses use selection at the gate;]] [[Considers that this creates increasing differences between training courses in their admission policies;]] [[Whereas there are excellent alternatives to selection at the gate, such as good information and study guidance;]] [[noting that the inspection recommends making national agreements to keep the "gates open";]] [[calls on the Government to make national agreements on the admission policy of higher education training, focusing on alternatives to selection at the gate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-534]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u16	In the first motion, Mr Van Dijk speaks of alternative methods of selection. I conclude from this that Mr Van Dijk also considers it important that there should be a certain selection procedure for some training courses. Let me get this straight. Or does he say, "Get rid of it, don't make any kind of demands at the gate, for example at the pabo, is desirable?" I'm looking for a little more focus on what he means by his first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u17	No, the point is, as Mr Van Meenen put it in his term of office, that training is going to compete with each other with all kinds of shadowy selection criteria. We need to get rid of that. So this is separate from art education, pabo's et cetera. These are widely accessible training courses where all kinds of selection are applied. We have to get rid of that, and I think I have a very nice motion to focus on alternatives to selection at the gate, especially good information, matching and other social democratic ideals. I am absolutely counting on the PvdA's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u18	We are not going to have the debate about this, even though Mr Mohandis is being vigorously challenged. The debate has already taken place, it is now about explanations of the motions. If you agree on this, we will see in the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u19	If SP emotions excel in clarity and in what they do want, we could come together for a long time. I have another question about the second motion, which is about making the second study affordable. A number of proposals have been made by me and Mr Rog on transparency and Maximisation. It just costs money to get this right. Mr Van Dijk agrees with me on this. How did the SP reserve 150 million to 200 million to settle this? Mr Van Dijk can throw this as a motion to the cabinet over the fence, but he can also come up with a good proposal with the right cover, because then we will come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u20	I fully agree with Mr Mohandis. Of course, that needs to be properly arranged. Mr Mohandis also knows that we have excellent proposals for this. Read our election programme on SP.nl. But this motion is about punishing students for their ambition, rather than rewarding them. Mr Mohandis knows the towering tuition fees, not rarely more than €10,000...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u21	That is a repetition of moves, Mr Van Dijk, a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u22	... for such a second study. We shouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u23	A repetition of moves, Mr Van Dijk. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u24	When Mr Van Dijk gets a question, he always tends to take back to convincing himself why something is good or bad. We know that. What matters to me is that Mr Van Dijk will then have to take responsibility for covering this in an alternative budget. He didn't. There is no provision for 150 million to 200 million to cover the second study for the institutional rate. That is my observation. He has the responsibility to deliver butter to the fish. We can all file this type of motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u25	A final response from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u26	What an awful technocratic story by Mr Mohandis. I know him so much better. Are we going for accessibility? Do we offer students access to higher education, yes or no? That financial coverage is there, but this is a statement in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you very much. So it suddenly became lively in this room. We've come to the end of the Chamber's term. I shall suspend the sitting for a moment so that the Minister can prepare her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u28	I would ask Members to listen carefully to the Minister's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 531 of Mr Duisenberg and Mr Van Meenen, in which the government is invited to improve the connection to the labour market and society for training, in line with the proposal of the Interurban Student Consultation. In the light of the new arrangements made by the Chamber, I can take over this motion. We have all noted the importance of information on job opportunities and a relationship with the labour market. Fortunately, the motion also mentions the relationship with society. Students need to be clearly and clearly informed about this. We must make it negotiable as training courses that do not give transparency or do not take sufficient account of the opportunities after completing training. In general consultation, as in the Strategic Agenda for Higher Education and Research, I indicated that I would come in the summer with a letter on the future macro-efficiency policy. In doing so, I also include policies aimed at the existing offer. However, I think it is important to look for a balance between policies aimed at assessing the macro-efficiency of existing supply on the one hand and policies that emphasise the responsibility for and ownership of institutions as much as possible. They will eventually have to do it themselves, especially in a rapidly changing labour market. What I also think is very important is to ensure as much freedom of choice as possible for students. I don't want to use unnecessary new selection at the gate. These are all considerations which make it difficult to choose a simple solution. I'm glad the motion is much more nuanced than earlier sounds I've heard. I agree with the remarks made by the Interurban Student Consultation. As the motion now stands, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. Given the new arrangements made by the Chamber, I can also take over the motion. This means that I am taking this issue into account in the letter from the summer ahead. The opportunity I already have to intervene will be mentioned again, but in the context of all these considerations. No new bureaucracy, no unnecessary administrative burden, as much freedom of choice as possible for students, no sneaking selection at the gates, and at the same time a good connection to labour market and society. That is a complicated task, but I am happy to include this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u30	Let me explain something. There are a few new Members in the Chamber in relation to the previous discussions this morning. Following the initiative taken by our colleague Mr Van der Staaij, Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure has been amended to allow members of the Cabinet to adopt motions. The Minister has expressed his wish to do so. She then said: you can also choose another variant. She said, however, that she took over the motion. That means that the motion in part No. 531 is taken over and is no longer part of the debate. I assume that none of the Members objects. Mr Rog does; go ahead, Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u31	I'd like to discuss it first. I think that's where we ended up. If the Minister answers my question in such a way that I have enough comfort, I will not oppose it. First of all, I would like to be able to ask another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u32	Okay. We all have to get used to it, because it's new. That is fine, but in itself if the Minister adopts a motion, it will no longer be discussed. We will have to wait a little longer in future, because you want an explanation and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u33	I think the Minister is very careful. I'm happy about that. I am also in favour of a macro-efficiency test, including for existing training courses. The operative part of this motion, however, states that there will soon be an ultimatum remedium, namely that the Minister has the power to intervene. If we accept or accept this motion, in what cases will the Minister do so? I would like to feel a little bit more about this before this motion is implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u34	That is a complicated question, which relates to exactly all the elements I have just mentioned. By the way, I already have an opportunity to intervene. However, you want to be cautious in this, because you want to encourage training, for example, to make agreements with each other first. We can do that through a sector plan. It can also be separated from a sector plan. It can be done in many ways. Fortunately, the motion also states that it is an ultimatum remedium. I want to avoid saying too quickly to training from above that they have to do this or that. I may not always see how the labour market is developing. It is no longer just a regional or national labour market. Sometimes it's a global labour market. Maybe there are developments that turn out to be different from what I had in mind a year later. Then I'll have to judge that individually again. I would like to add some knowledge to myself in the field of higher education, but not so much so that for all these individual training courses I can decide at any time whether training is appropriate to global developments in the labour market and in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u35	Let me be quite clear: is this motion going to extend the Minister's toolbox for intervention on the basis of insufficient labour market prospects for training or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u36	Not necessarily, because that depends on the considerations. I have already said that I think we should first focus on information, the study-choice check and that sort of thing. Then you come to the mutual agreements between institutions. If none of that happens, there will eventually be a moment when I can intervene. However, we must do this very carefully. My proposal was and is to do so by letter. The Chamber receives that letter, which deals with macro-efficiency in education, in the summer. I therefore refer to these considerations in the way in which I have just indicated them. That's pretty open. I therefore see the motion as not so much an incentive to make such a list and to intervene very often as an incentive for institutions to make more agreements among themselves. That too can be a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u37	I must also be reassured, because I am suspicious of this motion. This motion comes from a little plan by Mr Duisenberg, who said that all these training courses lead to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u38	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u39	... the card box of the UWV and that therefore it should all become much more labour market oriented. I don't like that attitude. If the Minister were to say 'Mr Van Dijk, don't worry, because I come with proposals before the summer and only then will we really see what is going to happen', I can agree to that. As far as I am concerned, the motion does not have to be put to the vote either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u40	That's what I meant by my reaction. I come in the summer with a letter. Honestly, the motion also states that it is not just about the labour market. Our education, including higher education, is not only leading to today's vacancy, but also to conscious, responsible citizens who can cope with changes in society, a changing labour market and a dynamic with perhaps ten jobs in their lives. That is all part of it, and in that sense I think that the motion, as it has now been formulated, is balanced. I can do without it, and I would say: let us continue the debate when you have received my letter in the summer in which I will work out some things. This has already been discussed in the debate on the strategic agenda. I would like to say to the authors that I too understand that a new topicality has arisen as a result of the media's attention to a number of problems. I recognise these problems and I am happy to take responsibility for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u41	Just to be clear, no irreversible steps until the reconnaissance that comes to the Chamber in the summer. If the real debate follows then, I can accept the withdrawal or the adoption of this motion, so that it is no longer put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u42	It is also getting used to for me that you distinguish between the possibility of leaving the judgment to the Chamber, despite the fact that there is a lot of political discussion, and the possibility of taking a motion. So the motion has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u43	As guardian of the rules of the game, I must point out that the motion states that that ultimum remedium is included in the proposal. If that is a reason for Members to still want to vote, they must indicate it. Again, I have to monitor what is going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u44	I would add that this is not new in itself, because I already have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u45	Then the motion becomes part no. 531 taken over. The motion therefore no longer forms part of the deliberations. There are no objections to this by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u46	In their motion in part No. 532 the members of Van Meenen and Van Dijk ask the government to come forward with proposals to no longer allow the selection of master's programmes, except under high exception and with the explicit permission of the participation council and the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. I advise against this motion. Let me say first of all that I consider accessibility to be very important and, in my opinion, it can go hand in hand with the differentiation of master's programmes. That is why we have also taken measures in the Quality of Higher Education Act, a law which has been very widely supported by the Chamber. It is also important that students can make more diverse choices and do not have to do the bachelor/master in one particular form because the master is really only the extension of the original bachelor. That could include selection. I have also indicated that sometimes there is a demand that there is nothing against demanding that you speak good English if you want to do a master's degree in English modern literature. I have also indicated that I would like to receive any signals. I say this again, in particular, to Mr Van Meenen. I have also taken various initiatives to ensure accessibility, for example the monitoring of selection. That is why I believe that the motion does not add much and that I should discourage her. In part No. 533 Mr Rog tabled a motion on the training requirements for the pabo in the Havo. He asked the cabinet, with the G4, to discuss teacher training and secondary education on the connection of the Havo to the pabo. Can I say "pabo" now, Mr. Chairman? It has already been explained once and I think this abbreviation has gradually become quite well established.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u47	It's already been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u48	I don't know if you'll let me use the word "teachnasia." I find it an interesting initiative in itself. I also understand Mr Rog's concerns. I note that a lot is already happening to improve the connection with the pabo. On the other hand, there is no harm in making special agreements with the G-4. I also spoke with the G-4 last week about the link between teacher training and the need for teachers in the big cities. I therefore propose that I include this point in the discussions I have with the G-4 aldermen. I also find the school an interesting initiative of the Christian University of Ede. So I'm sure I'm gonna follow that. However, I do not know whether this is necessarily the solution for all pabo's, because this means a huge increase in the task for students. I also note that we have high demands on prospective pabo-students, but that this is at Havo 3 level. At Havo 3 level, all students have had all the courses you need for the pabo. So it's really about freshening up. The care is also part of the transition from MBO to the pabo. All in all, I can accept this motion if there is no further discussion in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u49	The motion-Ray in part No. 533 has been taken over and is no longer part of the debate. I do not object to the Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u50	Mr Mohandis asked for the signal on Avans. I'd like to take that with me in the monitor selection. I also take it with me in the exploration that I have asked the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences to discuss the englomeration of higher education in the Netherlands. Is that a good word, Chairman, ensnaring?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u51	In fact, we see that many institutions are giving more and more training in English. There is no objection to this in itself, but it is important that we also guarantee the Dutch good in higher education, that students can handle that level and, above all, that teachers give good English. Otherwise, we'll be farther from home. Avans has indicated that this college wants to ask the English language as a term. There is something to be said for this in the framework of the profiling of institutions. They're gonna see if the students can get along with that at the beginning. English is done at B2 level at the end of the course. So people want to know at the beginning what students need extra guidance for that. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, but I will look into it a little bit better and take this with me to make sure that this will not work as a new selection criterion, as a selection at the gate. That is how I understand Mr Mohandis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u52	We'll continue with the motions. Mr Mohandis, you made a comment and the Minister replied. In a V.A.O., that's it. It's not about motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u53	I asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u54	Well, okay. Go ahead, if you'll keep it short. We're running late, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u55	I'm not filing any motions. I thought I'd ask one more question because it's very topical. If I have understood the Minister correctly, she agrees with me that it should not be the case that students who do not have enough English because secondary education was not sufficient should not be refused for that reason. I'm getting that from the Minister. In many other ways this is fine, but it cannot serve as a selection criterion. I don't think that's legal either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u56	Sure. You can joke about it, but I just want Parliament to be clear and that everyone can follow us. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u57	No, it should not be used as a selection criterion, but it should be possible to see what students need in order to reach that B2 level at the end of their education. That's how I understand it and that's how I'm gonna check with Avans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u58	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u59	This is exactly what I wanted to avoid. Now we have a whole debate on this. I suggest you take that on another occasion. The Minister continues with the motion in part No. 534.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u60	In the motion in part No. 534 members Van Dijk and Van Meenen are invited to make national agreements on the admission policy of training, using alternatives for selection at the gate. This motion is unnecessary. We already have those appointments. We have study-choice checks at all higher education institutions. We're working on better information. We've got a trial degree. By the way, the coalition agreement also states that there is no further selection at the gate, on top of the selection we already know, such as in university lectures and in art courses. We are in the process of a monitor selection, in which we will see if this really ensures accessibility. I therefore consider this motion superfluous and advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u61	I wish! If only the motion were superfluous! We have had a whole debate about selection at the gate. The first motion-Van Meenen/Van Dijk is also about selection at master's programmes. It was also dissuaded! We see an increasing selection in higher education. The inspection also signals this and says that agreements need to be made to stop it. In my motion, I'm pointing in a direction. I suggest we look at alternatives for selection at the gate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u62	My answer to that is: we have been doing that for a long time. The motion is therefore superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u63	"We've been doing that a long time"? I have given many examples in the debate, such as from Utrecht, where there is a proliferation of selection at the gate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u64	We're not going to have the debate again. What is your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u65	I would point out to the Minister that it is wrong to say that the motion is superfluous. The motion is absolutely necessary!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u66	I'm very sorry, but I can't do anything with the operative part. It says we have to make national agreements. I already have national appointments. I have national agreements with the Chamber, I have national agreements in the government agreement and I have national agreements on the implementation of a strategic agenda. They're not about selection at the gate, they're about improving higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u67	The Minister refers to agreements that should lead to no increase in selection, but it is increasing. During the reign of the Minister, the number of training courses with a numerus fixus exploded. I really do not understand how the Minister can reconcile these two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u68	A numerus fixus is really something else. We shouldn't confuse everything. We also need to be a little consistent. I am not in favour of flip-flop policy and neither do I think Mr Van Meenen. Two years ago, we established "Quality in diversity" together, in which we all agreed on this. Let's do those appointments first and let's keep a finger on the wrist. I do that because I attach great importance to the broad accessibility of all education, including higher education, and that is where selection plays a role. We must ensure that the resources we have are not abused. I am very much in favour of this, but not by proposing too easy solutions, which only talk about national agreements, as if we had solved all the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u69	This discussion will be continued at another time. We'll continue with the motion in part no. 535.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u70	This motion also belongs to Members Van Meenen and Van Dijk. The government is asked to realize that the legal tuition fee is standard, including for a second study. I thought that Mr Mohandis had given an adequate response. I'm just saying, I think it's a pretty cheap motion. There is no money in it. There have indeed been several proposals made recently by the PvdA and the CDA which have already led to much more transparency and clarity. So they also led to more self-control of the institutions so as not to be too easy to deal with. So there's a maximation on it. This costs money and I heard Mr Van Dijk refer again to his election programme. In my view, however, it mainly mentioned a reduction in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u71	This is called entrapment. Mr Van Dijk may respond very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mr President, you should join me in saying that the Minister is not allowed to talk! The counter-budget of the SP 2016, on SP.nl, mentions significant investments in education. The Minister tries to bounce the ball, but in the meantime she allows huge tuition fees for a second study in higher education, thresholds...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u73	It's obvious. Somewhere in this debate one of the Members said that it was Mr Van Meenen who said that elections were coming. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u74	I was talking about an election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-6.u75	We shall be voting on the motions next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister for the three debates she has attended.
