ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. During the work visit of the First Parliament delegation to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, we met representatives of various sections of the population in Saba on Wednesday 20 April. I was approached by a teacher who told me that twelve retirement years had disappeared from him. As I assumed that there would be an occasional administrativeout, I advised him to turn to the Ombudsman or Ombudswoman. Since I thought the incident was important enough, I introduced the teacher to our delegation leader, Professor Ganzevoort. The teacher also told him his story. The next day we visited Saint Eustatius and I was addressed by a teacher. "You must speak, you are of 50PLUS and you represent pension interests," she said. She did a story that showed that she too had to do with many disappeared pension years. I re-reported this to our delegation chairman on the spot and then continued the discussion in the presence of the very interested colleague and delegation member of the Christian Union, Mr Ester. This discussion showed that many of her colleagues had also lost many years of retirement. I repeat this somewhat extensively because two delegates can confirm these talks and because a further investigation has shown that pension funds have disappeared on a large scale. In the eyes of 50PLUS, there is an extremely serious case which will certainly lead to compensation for the injured and to criminal proceedings. Let me explain this to you. During the dismantling of the Netherlands Antilles on 10 October 2010, it was agreed that the pension obligations of the General Pension Fund for the Netherlands Antilles (APNA) would be divided into three countries, namely Curaçao, Sint Maarten and the Netherlands as regards Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. However, when the first pension year reviews of the new Caribbean Netherlands Pension Fund (PCN) appeared, many hundreds of officials, including teaching staff, had disappeared many years of pension rights prior to 10 October 2010. PCN spoke at a meeting of 300 cases, but in a recent phone call with our legal officer it was said that this number is higher. The fact that these rights do exist has been demonstrated by the pay slips of that time, which not only report pension deductions or delays but also the cumulative amount accumulated. We have received proof of this. A correspondence conducted by 50PLUS shows that Bonaire has the same problems on a large scale. In total, the group of officials is more than 2,000 according to the Minister's statement. PCI confirms in a notice dated 16 June 2016 that the files are indeed 2,000 to be assessed. Participants in the pension fund who found this, turned to the Caribbean Netherlands Pension Fund about five years ago. Five years: in that period, you need to be able to clarify things. They were sent from the cabinet to the wall in those five years, according to their own words. That clarity has now been clearly established on one point, and there can be no misunderstanding about that. Recently, PCI recorded the following in writing. In a letter in possession of 50PLUS, PCIN wrote on 4 May 2016 that participants were not included in the APNA administration and that PCIN did not receive any money in respect of pension claims as a result of APNA's estate separation. I quote the letter verbatim: "This is not a unique situation. In addition to yourself and your colleagues, this includes participants who worked at one of the other public and educational institutions before 2010.' In this letter, PCI points out that it is obliged by the Pension Act BES and by the supervision of the Nederlandsche Bank to ensure adequate financing of pension claims. PCN then draws the following conclusion in the letter, which is absolutely inexplicable. I quote literally: 'In your particular situation, this means that the contributions deducted from your salary by the employer, together with the employer's contribution, including statutory interest must be paid before PCI can assume the pension obligations'. Black on white and possible other stories in spite of that, PCN says: As long as we have not received the interest contributions, we cannot recognise and take on your pension claims despite your proofs and salary slips. In black and white it is confirmed that the employers who were the government did not pay the deducted contributions for many years. In the meantime, we have asked for details of the number of victims and the amounts involved. PCN avoids the provision of this data. Hunted by the 50PLUS study, we received a letter from PCI on 16 June 2016 recognising that premiums have been withheld but that these premiums have not been paid. It can't be any clearer. As a tissue for bleeding, it is noted that employers, i.e. public bodies, are making efforts to provide missing information. But that has been asked several times in the last five years without results, because the data was untraceable. In a notice dated 16 June 2016, PCI wrote that it has repeatedly called on employers to make every effort to provide the information. This remained without the desired result. PCI argues that otherwise there should be a scheme based on assumptions adjusted with the employer. This is an unacceptable course of action, is it not? Surely these people shouldn't be dependent on unverifiable assumptions? Not all employees have kept their pay slips for the last 20 years. Participants may have moved out of the Caribbean Netherlands, companies or schools may have been abolished by now. Those who have cheated by collecting premiums but not paying them should be dealt with hard. We are also blaming PCI for not opening up and bringing this long-standing fraud case to the public for five years. PCN even writes to have advertised with calls to the officials to report. Absurder can't do it, can he? We are talking about more than 2,000 files of people employed by the Dutch government who have demonstrably paid their pension contributions. Hundreds of people have been told that they are now missing up to 15 pension years. That must be totally unacceptable. Does the government have any idea how many people are involved and what millions are involved? Where, first of all, are the contributions that have been collected in whose pockets or greenhouses? The excuse that there would be poor accounting and administration at APNA must, of course, never be a reason for the victims to lose their rights. On the three islands of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba, it is estimated that many millions have disappeared. They must have been collected and stored somewhere. When collected money is no longer traceable, you talk about embezzlement. According to PCI, they have been trying for years to obtain clarification from both APNA and the employers, but the many attempts were unsuccessful. This while the millions of premiums collected must be somewhere. We therefore call for an urgent judicial investigation and criminal prosecution of those responsible for unpaid pension payments. 50PLUS also wants to know what the supervisory role of the Nederlandsche Bank has been, and why it has not been called up much earlier. The 2013 PCN annual report prepared by Ernst & Young Accountants highlights the uncertainty regarding the APNA estate separation. The auditors draw attention to the "non-balance sheet assets and liabilities" section. In the notes on the financial statements, the uncertainty regarding the outcome of the settlement and settlement of the APNA estate separation has been explicitly reported. Shouldn't that have been a reason to check up on you? How should it be explained that one year later, in Ernst & Young Accountants' 2014 annual report of PCI, it is stated that in 2014 the estate separation commission drew up a report approved by the three countries concerned, including the Netherlands, and that a final statement was drawn up on the basis of this final report? It is unclear where the amounts paid are, but a final statement has been approved. We would like a clear answer from the Minister to the question of how this could be done. In view of what has been going on all these years and is now clearly emerging again, we have the following questions to the government. Was the government aware of the disappearance of pension years and millions? If so, what has the government done? If not, how is it possible that the government has not been informed or acted on its own all this time? Shouldn't PCI have reported to the competent Dutch authorities in recent years what was going on? Does the government agree with 50PLUS that civil servants and teaching staff should not be the victims of the missing millions of accrued pension rights? In the letter of 17 June 2016, responding to further questions in preparation for the policy debate, the Minister writes: "The State has taken responsibility for the proper conduct of the transfer of the APNA obligations to the Caribbean Netherlands Pension Fund (PCN) by signing the attached agreement." Can we conclude from this that, given its responsibility for the separation of property from APNA, the government is prepared to guarantee the pension claims of the participants? Surely it cannot be true that in this computer age, in which even the smallest receipt can be found, both among the many employers on all three BES islands and with APNA essential pension data are untraceable? If, on a very broad scale, the premiums collected by the government are not transferred, then there is something fundamentally wrong? And if you collect for years without paying off, then you have to be able to see this every year through a cash position or balance sheet. Can the government clarify this? What is the total amount of pension contributions retained but not paid? What is the total amount that the employer, the government, should have paid in pension contributions but did not do so? What is the legal amount of interest to be paid for which PCI speaks? Again, where have these amounts gone? Is it possible that there is a link between the very wide-ranging unpaid pension contributions and the fact that the computer files are not available? Has the Dutch Bank not failed as a supervisor? Can the government clarify this? 50PLUS concludes as follows: the missing pension millions must be traced and those responsible for this embezzlement must be prosecuted. It is unacceptable for 50PLUS that the many hundreds of employees who have faithfully paid their pension should remain in uncertainty even longer, and for that reason alone, the government must make a commitment today that they will be fully compensated. It is urgent, not only because of the gnawing anxiety and uncertainty of many years among retired participants, but also because of the annual report of PCI on 2014, which literally states: "It also happens that employees report with a possible pension entitlement over the years before 10 October 2010, but are not included in the membership stock at APNA. As an indirect successor to the law, PCI is bound to correctly implement the pension scheme, even if it relates to the period before 10 October 2010, while PCI has neither an insight nor an insight into its possible size." This is what the annual report says: no vision can be seen. And then comes the sentence: "With the passing of time, the size is expected to decrease." Is this why things are taking so long? What did the government do when she read this annual report? Given the role and responsibility of the government and this government, the question is whether a parliamentary committee of inquiry should be set up to investigate these matters. An alternative would be an independent committee, by setting up the minister, but an entirely independent committee. It would then have to report before the start of the next parliamentary season. We would like to hear from the Minister what he thinks of this suggestion. It remains unacceptable to us that pension rights should soon be established on the basis of estimates, not least by the public employers who have not paid contributions and who say that the administration is missing. The 2,000 officials must be done justice. As a letterwriter from Saint Eustatius wrote to us: "It is a great relief to me that action is finally being taken. It gives me a great rest." We must not abandon these Dutch people, who are so severely disadvantaged out of their debt. In my speech, I paid a great deal of attention to this matter, also because there is no mention of it in the report of the Spies Committee. This in itself is a very good report, but this is disappointing for a report that has cost over €930,000. On most of the issues, the delegation members of the working visit agreed. I would therefore like to confine myself to two other issues. Firstly, poverty. It was quoted from many quarters that the administrative consultation of 31 January 2008 agreed that standards for an acceptable level of provision within the Netherlands should be established. The Spies Committee concludes that Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba do not have a minimum standard of living, and calls the problem very serious. The Empire is accused of not paying sufficient attention to those groups that cannot provide their income through labour. Many of these people live in poverty, in particular disabled and elderly people, and in particular those who have to live off an AOV alone. The report Five years Caribbean Netherlands; impact on the population, of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau of October 2015 concludes that the situation has deteriorated significantly in the socio-economic field since the end of 2010. Poverty has increased, new social problems have arisen and existing social problems have been strengthened. The Dutch scheme has not been taken as a starting point, but despite a one-off substantial increase in old-age and disability benefits, it remains significantly lower than in the European Netherlands. The Public Body Saba has calculated that if the social minimum is set at 70% of the statutory minimum wage, this would mean an amount of $651 in the long term. In the Netherlands, the welfare allowance for single people is €973. That's a really big difference. What amazes and annoys 50PLUS is the lack of any social movement of the cabinet on this point. There are circular reasonings in the vein of: I fit in my coat, my coat fits in my briefcase, so I also fit in my briefcase. In his own way, the cabinet also has a kind of circular reasoning on this harrowing point. The cabinet chooses the benchmark for the security of existence, which is related to the statutory minimum wage. Work must continue to pay against the benefit situation, so the level of the AOV must keep the rest of the system in balance. That is literally the end of the story and the people who live in indigestible poverty must do so. 50PLUS will therefore fully support all the motions that fight poverty and give priority. Finally. The Spies report indicates that the inhabitants of the three islands hardly feel represented in relation to the European part of the Netherlands. It is decided thousands of miles away and only to a limited extent in consultation with them, so is the image. During the work visit, this sound penetrated strongly. We noted: sometimes you can watch when it is done; ministries meet about us, but we are not at the table; sometimes we are heard, but our sound has no power. Even if these statements were to be changed, the government and parliament should do everything in their power to remove these sentiments with facts. It is often an example given on Bonaire that it is not so much a question of asking for more money, but that the money has to be spent differently. The Dutch government gives priority to the construction of a new tax office and a new prison, while the cargo port collapses. We call for more spending on the basis of the needs of the population. The Spies report concludes that the attitude of the Dutch directors is perceived as indifferent. We add the word "regentesk." The answers to the First Chamber questions of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations on 3 June 2016 reinforce that image. That is why 50PLUS calls on the Minister to show himself from another side today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Kingdom exists, but it is and remains a difficult construction which leads to constant displeasure and mutual strangulation between the Netherlands and the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom. This has to do not only with the colonial past and the great differences in language and culture, but also with a deep feeling of displeasure from the Caribbean countries about the fact that there is a Kingdom Government, but not a Kingdom Parliament. The control of the Kingdom Government is exercised by the Dutch First and Second Chambers, in which the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom are not represented. This democratic deficit is perceived by the Caribbean as unjust and a looming error in the Statute. In 2011, the then Minister of BZK, Professor Donner, made a few comments on the concept of "democratic deficit" in writing with the Eerste Kamer. He argued that the term suggests a lack of democratic control over decision-making within the Kingdom. According to Professor Donner, however, it is not acknowledged that the Kingdom is a State-law link between four equivalent autonomous countries with a totally unequal population. Donner was right, Mr. Chairman: that's where he is. Many politicians, committees and good-looking heads have considered this problem over time. However, all suggestions for possible solutions are just lap agents. After all, proportional democratic representation would give the Netherlands an excessive preponderance. If one were to use the system of electoral circles, in which each country forms an electoral circle with a number of its own representatives, it would be contrary to the democratic principle of the equivalence of each vote. My group is convinced that the democratic deficit can only be resolved if the Caribbean countries become independent, or if we transform the Kingdom into a federation of kingdom bodies that are separate from the national bodies. However, the latter would cost a disproportionate amount of time, money and energy, so, at least for my group, it is not a viable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u3	A small comment on Mr Van Kappen's idea that the representation of the islands would always remain disproportionately small. There are also countries where minorities have permanent representation in parliament. That will remain a small representation, but not entirely in line with the proportions that exist. It is a little more than that, so that at least one is clearly audible. That's a possibility, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u4	The population of the islands is so small that if you decided that each country would have a number of seats in the Lower House and you wouldn't increase that number of seats in that Lower House, you would have a mismatch between the value of each vote, and that would be contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u5	This is in principle contrary to the Constitution, but the Constitution can of course be adapted to this issue of minorities. Are we not doing exactly the same thing in Europe, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u6	The comparison with Europe is becoming far too complicated for me. In any case, let me say this: my group does not feel anything about this. Mr. Chairman. As I said, my group is convinced that the democratic deficit can only be resolved if the Caribbean countries become independent, or if we transform the Kingdom into a federation of kingdom bodies that are independent of the land bodies. However, the latter would cost a disproportionate amount of time, money and energy, so, at least for my group, it is not a viable way. So as long as the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom do not collectively opt for independence, it continues to muddle. Our question to the Minister is whether he agrees with us, or whether he still sees opportunities for resolving the democratic deficit that has escaped us. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom are now strongly committed to the state law to settle disputes between the Kingdom and the countries. After all, a dispute settlement would counter the Dutch dominance within the Kingdom and thus be a patch on the wound of the democratic deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u7	I believe that I share Mr Van Kappen's analysis that this democratic deficit is almost by definition and will remain, unless we take very different radical steps, and so it continues to muddle. My question is whether this is acceptable. Can we find ways of moving forward, albeit muddy? Or does Mr Van Kappen actually say with his analysis that this is so problematic that we should consider these radical steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u8	That is why I put the question to the Minister. I wonder how he sees that. We do not really see any real possibilities for this. We all share the same citizenship. Whether you live in Tietjerksteradeel or in Aruba or Bonaire, if you take the passport out of your pocket, that's exactly the same passport. The Statute can only be changed with the consent of all the countries of the Kingdom. Well, I don't see that one-two-three happening either. Anyone can leave the Kingdom except the Netherlands. Many people experience the Statute as a strangulation contract. Anyway, it's here. We've prepared it ourselves, and we've got to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u9	So just keep muddy as nice as you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u10	I think that in the long term there may be opportunities for a different construction, but I do not see that for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u11	I share Mr Van Kappen's view that, in the shorter term, there can be no real structural change within the Kingdom. By the way, we just did that five or six years ago. So that's also a reason not to try again tomorrow. Does Mr Van Kappen agree with me that it is useful to look more generally at the Statute to see whether it is not even time to modernise a 60-year-old document in a number of places and to carry out an evaluation of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u12	I agree with Mr De Graaf that the Statute will have to be reviewed at some point. However, we have just had a very radical change to the Statute. That wasn't five years ago. So I wonder if it makes sense to do that right now. I think you're going to have to observe a period of at least ten years when you're looking at whether or not the new structure we've all created is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u13	I am also fighting what Mr Van Kappen said; that is also implied what I myself meant. It is true that 10-10-10 has led to an amendment of the Staff Regulations in order to incorporate the new constitution into it, but not to a general modernisation of the Staff Regulations on a whole range of issues, such as representation and the way in which national legislation is implemented. Perhaps this would be justified and not in ten years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u14	I agree. Indeed, we have not chosen to look at the Statute as a whole. We've adapted it to the new structure we were looking for. That does not mean that if there are problems with the current Statute and if they come back on the table every time, like Article 43, we would not be able to take action on it. But to look at the whole Statute again after five years, I'm just a little out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u15	I also agree with Mr Van Kappen that it is not at all so urgent at the moment to take action in the sphere of political change. That's what I said this morning. I do, of course, agree with Mr De Graaf that this should be considered at some point. In any case, we must be aware that imbalances are at issue here and that we can adapt and take account of our actions and our ways of acting with each other. If Mr Van Kappen were to agree with me, we would be a long way to go in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u16	I'm always happy to listen to the OSF. I often agree with her, but at the moment we have to look at where it really is in the Staff Regulations, which we need to adapt. I think that we will be able to do things much faster than if we go back to the whole Statute, because that would be an endless story. In addition, we are not taking away the essence of the imbalance in the Statute. That's what Donner said. They are autonomous countries that are equivalent, but with a totally unequal population. That is also a democratic deficit on our part. It cannot be that 250,000 people across the ocean determine what 17 million Dutch people must do. That is also a democratic deficit. It's embedded in the entire statute. In addition, at the time, we also decided that everyone should have the same citizenship. That also complicates the matter considerably. Mr. Chairman. I had said that it is no wonder that the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom are now making a strong commitment to a state law to settle disputes between the Kingdom and the countries. The VVD Group is in favour of a dispute settlement. However, setting up a dispute settlement system for a trans-Atlantic state is not only legally complex, but the differences in language, culture and lack of consensus make it even more complex. In addition, the partners within the Kingdom hardly trust each other, so difficult. But difficult or not, since the amendment of the Staff Regulations in 2010, it is an obligation to settle disputes. Article 12a of the Staff Regulations states: "The national law lays down provisions for the treatment of disputes between the Kingdom and the countries designated by national law'. Originally, there was only the power to establish a dispute settlement. However, by amendment of the special delegates Wever and Thijssen of the States of Aruba, this power was converted into an obligation. In this context, it is also important that three principles for a dispute settlement were established in the IPKO. First, independent dispute resolution, second, dispute resolution by means of a binding ruling and third, limitation to strictly legal disputes relating to statutory provisions. At the moment there are two draft proposals of state law in circulation. A concept offered by the Minister of State for consultation with the governments of the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom and a concept drawn up by the parliamentary delegations of the Caribbean countries to the IPKO. The IPKO agreed that it would be necessary to assess at parliamentary level whether both draft legislative proposals comply with the three principles established by the IPKO for a dispute settlement. It will therefore be some time before we can discuss the dispute settlement in this Chamber. So I could leave it at that, but given the importance of this subject and in order to possibly speed up the process, I would at least like to state what the most important considerations for us as a VVD group are in the assessment of a dispute settlement established by Rijkswet. First of all, I come to the scope of Article 12a of the Statute. This article refers to "disputes established by the State Law." This means that not all disputes between the Kingdom and the countries are covered by the dispute settlement. This is also logical because, for example, state laws cannot be covered by the regulation. This would involve a review of legislation by a non-democratically legitimised body, which would be contrary to Article 120 of the Constitution. The dispute settlement should therefore be limited to administrative disputes arising from decisions of the Kingdom bodies contested by one or more countries, and not to disputes between countries. This clearly does not include decisions of the national bodies. What, in our opinion, is eligible for dispute resolution are, for example, the General Measures of the Government, as provided for in Article 51 of the Statute, in this case decisions of the Kingdom Government suspending and destroying country regulations and decisions and instructions to the governor and decisions of the governor as a state body. The next question that needs to be answered is whether the dispute settlement is strictly legal or whether it is a broader review, including general administrative considerations, as is the case with the administrative dispute settlement within the Netherlands. The explanatory statement to the amendment of the special delegates Wever and Thijsen discusses the legal interpretation of statutory provisions to provide for the "legality deficit." The operative part of the motion also accepted by the special delegates Yrausquin and Herdé of the States of Aruba also states that it is a "strict legal review" by independent experts in the field of Kingdom legislation. The joint concept of the Delegations of the Caribbean countries to the IPKO is also limited to a strict legal review. That is also in line with what was agreed in the IPKO. In addition to a separate court to be set up, the Supreme Court and the Administrative Court of the Council of State would also be eligible for a strict judicial review. However, it is a fact that disputes in the Kingdom often include questions other than strictly legal ones and that in the event of a strict legal review, the underlying general administrative and political aspects would not be taken into account; neither the Supreme Court nor the Administrative Court are an advisory body. At the heart of administrative law, both nationally and internationally, is that a judge should not sit on the seat of the board. The Board shall manage and answer to the People's Representatives. That is how it is regulated in the Netherlands and in the world, and so it should also be regulated in the Kingdom. In the Kingdom, the National Council of Ministers is the designated body for political decision-making. That is why in the proposal of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the National Council of Ministers may, on serious grounds, depart from the ruling of the dispute settlement party. Moreover, in the proposal of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the dispute settlement is the Council of State. This contrasts with the wish of the Caribbean countries that the ruling should be binding, a wish which has now been accepted as a starting point by the IPKO. We are not yet making any judgment here. After all, we do not yet have a legislative proposal on the table. We're only picking up a bottleneck. We wonder whether this bottleneck could not have been avoided by assuming a broader review. The text of Article 12a does not preclude a wider review than a strictly legal review of statutory powers and procedural questions. We wonder whether the already existing dispute settlement arrangements included in the National Financial Supervision Act Curaçao and Sint Maarten, the Aruba Financial Supervision Regulation and the Protocol on Integrity between the Netherlands and Sint Maarten, are not better models for resolving disputes between the countries of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u17	I was wondering if Mr Van Kappen had finished the dispute settlement section.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u18	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u19	Then I'll hold off on my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u20	That's fine. Mr. Chairman. These mutually identical arrangements provide for a review of both legality and general administrative balance. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has already mentioned this. The core of these arrangements is that the draft decision of the Council of State is binding on the grounds of legality. The other aspects are a major opinion, of which the Crown can only deviate under strict substantive conditions. In fact, this is a reinforced crown appeal. Has the Minister considered using these already existing dispute settlement arrangements, with both binding and advisory elements, as a model for resolving disputes between the countries of the Kingdom? If so, what were the reasons not to choose? If not, will he have this opportunity investigated? I should like briefly to mention the recent condemnation of the State of the Netherlands by the European Court of Justice, but I think Mr De Graaf would like to ask me a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u21	Sure, now's the time. I have listened in handcuffs to Mr Van Kappen's detailed speech on the dispute settlement, but I wonder whether this argument is not starting to float in the air. After all, no proposal from the Minister for the Interior or the Government has been brought before the Chamber. Nor has an initiative proposal been submitted by a Member of the House of Representatives. The VVD Group does not want to make a judgment, but it does have a lot of questions for the Minister. Shouldn't we just wait until there's a proposal? Otherwise, we'll talk a little bit for our turn. Does Mr Van Kappen agree with me on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u22	Of course, we are going to wait until a proposal is on the table, but I hope that I will make it easier for the Minister to tell him on what points we as a VVD will assess that proposal. Perhaps this will allow us to speed up the process somewhat. So I'm giving him insight into how we look at these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u23	I can imagine that in your case, but if this becomes the general practice in the First Chamber, we can talk about any subject every day in order to give the government a signal that we should not come here with any kind of legislation. I do not think that would speed up the course of our legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u24	We must also be very careful with this, but this time we thought it appropriate. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also pointed out the same possibility. Mr. Chairman. I should like briefly to mention the recent condemnation by the European Court of the State of the Netherlands of the violation of the human rights of murderer James Murray. James Murray served a life sentence in the prisons of Curaçao and Aruba. Not Curaçao or Aruba were convicted by the Court of Human Rights of Murray, but the Dutch State. According to the Court, the Dutch State is responsible for human rights up to the level of detainees and the Netherlands should not wait, but take proactive action. The Court completely ignores the Statute and this sheds particular light on the consequences for the Kingdom, in particular on the interpretation and scope of Article 43 of the Statute. The starting point of Article 43 is that the countries themselves are responsible for good governance, human rights and so on, and that the Netherlands can only intervene if all the possibilities for redres are exhausted. We wonder whether, as a result of this ruling, the Netherlands will now be directly responsible for many other matters relating to health or human rights in the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom. I call the Isla, for example. Is the Netherlands now being forced, by way of derogation from the scope of Article 43, to act proactively and not to wait until all the possibilities for redres have been exhausted? These legitimate questions were also asked in the Lower House. The Minister's reply was that the Murray ruling has no direct impact on the Kingdom or on the guarantee function. However, the basis of his position has not convinced us at all. That is why we would like to hear a further explanation from the Minister of his position. For example, do Curaçao and Aruba contribute to the fine imposed by the Court on the Dutch State? If we look at the neighbouring countries of the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom, we cannot avoid the increasing unrest and chaos that prevails in Venezuela. In the 2015 annual report of the AIVD and the STUDY, the services report that this situation may lead to an increase in the number of Venezuelans seeking refuge in Aruba, Curaçao and Bonaire. The services expect the situation in Venezuela to worsen further in 2016. It is striking that, for example, Curaçao has no established refugee policy. What about Aruba and Saint Martin? Does the Dutch refugee policy apply to the BES islands in its unchanged form, or are adjustments required? I would like an answer from the Minister to these questions. We also wonder whether the military presence in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom is sufficient to give substance to the threshold function of the armed forces in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. As a result of the cuts in defence, the threshold function has been reduced steadily over the years. Is the threshold still high enough to counter military adventure by Venezuela or armed criminal groups? Has the Minister been in contact with his colleague from the Defense Department? This is a task of the Kingdom. Then we have the challenge of the Caribbean Netherlands: the BES islands. Since 10-10-10, we have been directly responsible for good governance and the well-being of the population. The idea was that we were going to make it into something very beautiful. After all, the BES islands are only small islands with less than 25,000 inhabitants. With hard work, we would ensure that the BES Islands have the best financial management and the most honest governance in the Caribbean and Latin America. Unfortunately, the findings of the Spies Committee show that the project of the BES islands has not become something'very beautiful'. Despite the considerable financial efforts made by the Netherlands, the evaluation presents a mixed picture. Much has been achieved in the field of education and health, but in other areas, such as social affairs and employment, the results are not very positive. For both the population and other stakeholders, disappointment prevails, the Committee concludes. Mr President, a general preliminary remark. The fact that the first reading of the necessary amendment of the Constitution to establish the constitutional position of the BES islands was submitted before the evaluation was carried out, with the construction being properly assessed, is noteworthy by the state. We are, moreover, still awaiting the evaluation of the total constitutional reform of the Kingdom which came into force on 10-10-10. Anyway, I will leave it at that and continue to devote my time to the government's evaluation and response to the Spies Committee's report. The committee's main finding is that the islands have not benefited sufficiently from their integration into the Dutch state system. An important reason for this is, according to the Committee, that there has been no genuinely coherent policy for the Caribbean Netherlands over the last five years. Policy and related funding are fragmented and knowledge of the specific circumstances in the BES islands is limited. Similarly, coordination and cooperation between government officials representing the RCN's ministries has not always been optimal. The evaluation committee's gonna hit the nail on the head. In our view, it has been an error of assessment that after 10-10-10, the coherence of policies between the various ministries is not more firmly anchored. The cabinet indicates that measures have now been taken to counter the fragmented and sometimes contradictory approach on the Dutch side. For example, the direction in administrative policy-making is now at the interdepartmental CN-table, which also includes the National Representative. The preparation, coherence, updating and progress of the multi-annual plans per island will be discussed and coordinated at the CN table. On the islands, the National Representative takes his role more explicitly as an administrative outpost on behalf of the cabinet. He must promote cooperation between the government officials in the Caribbean Netherlands. Let's hope this works. Actually, there's not much news under the sun. After all, the CN table has been in existence for some time and the National Representative already had the task of administrative outpost and coordinator on the spot. We wonder whether, and if so, how the mandate of the State representative has been strengthened, does he now have the power of perseverance? We know that on the French Caribbean islands, a préfet represents the French Government. This official has far-reaching powers to take or stop local decisions on behalf of "Paris," including in relation to the French departments. Has this well-functioning French model been considered in the interpretation of the powers of the State representative? We also wonder whether and how the mandate of the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been strengthened. In the end, isn't it the case that every minister has the final say in his or her policy? I would like a response from the Minister to these questions. Another important finding of the committee is that the welfare level in the BES islands has fallen since 10-10-10. Workers have also deteriorated. Following the decline in population purchasing power, the challenge lies in setting the social minimum and combating poverty on the islands. What certainly does not help is the somewhat cryptic directive agreed with the islands at the time in the administrative consultation of 31 January 2008, that the level of provision should not deviate too much from what is common in the region, but that the level should be acceptable within the Dutch state system. How do you determine this? It's a very vague formulation. The government wants to address this problem by linking the under stand to the minimum wage. It would then have to be gradually brought to the minimum wage level and then set as a fixed percentage of the minimum wage. To this end, however, it is necessary to establish the social minimum. The government wants to figure this out. However, as far as we know, the social minimum has been investigated several times. For example, a study was carried out by the Nibud on Bonaire in 2014 which showed that the level of minimum wage and benefits were below the poverty line. The cabinet did not fight this outcome, but stated that the outcome of this report could not be the basis for the government's policy on the level of the legal minimum wage and benefits, as this would ignore the starting point of the island's economic standing. At the time, Secretary of State Klijnsma replied to questions about this in the Lower House that an increase in the minimum wage would exceed Bonaire's economic capacity and would thus cause serious damage to the economy. If the economic strength of the islands is indeed a starting point, what is the point of setting the minimum standard of living? In other words, the economic capacity of the islands determines the level of the minimum wage and the associated level of support. However, there is little economic support for the islands, but the cost of living is high. So there is a great chance that the minimum standard of living will exceed the economic capacity. Is the consequence of this that we accept that people on the islands have to live below the minimum standard of living? If that is indeed the position of the government, how does it relate to the agreement that the level of provision should be acceptable within the Dutch state system? I would like an answer from the Minister to these questions. The government repeatedly refers to the multi-annual plan drawn up by the Empire and public bodies focusing on poverty reduction, economic development and children's rights. However, this programme does not set standards for the level of provision to be pursued. However, a commitment is made to consider further the establishment of a benchmark for the security of existence. That's pretty vague, huh? The evaluation committee therefore concludes that the multiannual programmes do not offer a coherent, forward-looking approach. Perhaps the administrative input of the State representative offers an extra handle here. Not only does the evaluation committee come to this conclusion, but the Human Rights College also endorses this conclusion in its opinion on a level of human rights-acceptable provision. You can find her on page 17. The College recommends that the government set a minimum social level as soon as possible and that this be achieved for every citizen of the Caribbean Netherlands. In the opinion, the College also states that increased expenditure is needed to reduce delays and to achieve an acceptable level of social security within the Netherlands. You can find this on page 18. The College also concludes that the government has been awaiting social progress and has failed to carry out active and rapid research into the social situation in the Caribbean Netherlands. As a result, assumptions and assumptions have led to policies that have not been able to combat increasing poverty. I would like a response from the Minister to these harsh but, in our opinion, true words. In this connection, I would like to make the following point. The committee states that the decline in welfare levels on the islands since 10-10-10 is not entirely due to the new structure, but also to the role played by the global recession. However, the recession has hit Caribbean Netherlands much harder than needed, because a coherent plan for economic development was missing. The government's response to this is that the potential for economic growth must be exploited to the full in order to strengthen economic support and reduce poverty. The cabinet states that it is willing to give an extra boost to socio-economic development on the islands together with local partners in the coming period. It calls a series of measures that one wants to look at. However, we notice the frequent use of terms such as: 'the cabinet is willing' or 'the cabinet intends'. The use of such vague terms makes the cabinet response on this point little concrete. My group believes that a coherent and concrete plan for the economic development of the islands should be drawn up; it is important enough. Can the Minister promise us that such a plan will be submitted to this Chamber within a reasonable time? The fact that the balance sheet is not positive after five years is not solely due to The Hague. The Committee notes that the quality of the local directors and the functioning of the island councils are also unsatisfactory. On this point, the government states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with other ministries, will provide capacity to support the island official organisations. Our request to the Minister is to provide us periodically with an overview of the support actually provided. I'm rounding up. 10-10-10 was a mega operation. The leaders and officials involved have worked hard to bring this operation to a successful conclusion. As far as the BES islands are concerned, we regret to note that, despite all good intentions, mistakes have been made. That is not surprising in such a far-reaching operation. By the way, it would be a good thing for the government to admit this to be a little more egalitarian. The determining factor is how we deal with the mistakes that have been made. That is what we, the government and the States-General, are ultimately paid for. We'd make it a good thing, let's make it a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u25	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes it seems that European and Caribbean Netherlands form two parallel societies that go their separate ways, two universes that move side by side and find the conversation difficult. The territories have a long common history, but that unfortunately does not mean that we are experiencing this commonality as such. The coalition agreement does not even mention the Caribbean Netherlands. There is no such thing as an inspiring and shared vision of the Kingdom that is innerized by the kingdom partners from the realization that we want to make each other stronger. There is still too much mutual distrust, a 'trust deficit', as one of our interlocutors indicated during the working visit. This certainly also has to do with relationships that are often characteristic of a former colonizer and the colonised areas. It remains a challenge to break this pattern. In addition, Caribbean Netherlands cannot be seen as a unit. There are great cultural, political, social and economic differences. The countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin and the BES islands of Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba cannot be compared. This is already forgotten in the European Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u26	Now let me make a comment. I have the feeling that the concepts of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom and the Caribbean Netherlands are being confused here. You used the term "Caribbean Netherlands," while you also called Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. It seems to me to be a good thing for all the rapports to keep that apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u27	Yes, if you follow my text, you will see that this distinction is well made. Mr President, the scepticism of 10-10-10 is not only rooted in flawed confidence, but also has to do with the expectations surrounding this profound political transition. This is also apparent from the reactions of the islands to the excellent evaluation report by the Spies Committee and our working visit two months ago. In retrospect, these expectations may have increased far too high, partly due to the lack or vagueness of a real final perspective. The latter goes without saying for the agreement on the level of provision to be made on the BES islands. The starting point here was that standards would be drawn up for "I quote the agreements during the administrative consultation of 2008 "a level of provision acceptable within the Netherlands'. Only five words, but five words that have started to give their own dynamics to the pattern of expectations, which have started to lead their own lives, almost a mantra. Five words on the islands have led to the idea that their level of provision, their benefits, their prosperity, would be at the level of the European Netherlands. To the expectation that the supply of care, education, social security, services, poverty reduction, public security and public transport would be comparable to what we take for granted in our part of the Kingdom. To the expectation that the benefits for AOV, unemployment, disability and disability would be in line with the level of benefits as we know them in the European Netherlands. To date, these standards have been largely lacking. This is particularly true of social security. The report of the Spies Committee, the opinion of the College of Human Rights and previously the Council of State are mercilessly exposing this point of pain. The vagueness of the perspective and the lack of clear operationalisation of standards is the sting in this policy debate as far as the Christian Union Group is concerned. It confirms distrust, it increases frustration and it undermines the support for the administrative transition, not only among directors but above all among the people of the islands. They thought that as special municipalities of the country the Netherlands would quickly share in the higher prosperity. The Netherlands, according to my group, has not taken the leading role here, has not done enough to manage expectations and has allowed the issue of standards to float for too long. As a result, expectations are not synchronised and there is not so much a geographical but, above all, a mental gap between the Caribbean and the European Netherlands. If we do not take this matter up vigorously, it will remain uneasy in the Kingdom for a long time to come. The cabinet response to this crucial part of the Spies report on this need for standardisation is somewhat lean. Many warm words about connection and connectedness, but few bold proposals. The Christian Union Group strongly asks the Minister why he is not going through with it. This file really needs to be in a higher gear. My group calls on the Minister, assisted if possible by the planning agencies, to have the CBS, based on their extensive expertise in living conditions research and the use of facilities, consulted on this standardisation. In view of the cost developments on the islands and the living situation of the islanders, fair minimum standards should also be specified on the basis of empirical figures. This will enable the debate to be so objective and as to be calibrated as necessary. Is the Minister prepared to do so? We've been talking about this for over eight years. It also provides the opportunity to frame the tension relationship the islands experience between the principle of equality of Article 1 of our Constitution and the differentiation clause contained in Article 1, paragraph 2, of the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands. In any case, it is noteworthy how little data are available on the most basic social and economic developments on the islands. I am thinking of trends in income, purchasing power, poverty, employment, social security, to name but a few examples. A lot of data is also outdated. This also complicates and burdens the debate on standards and benchmarks, on whether the population is better or worse off. Every municipality in the Netherlands is much better equipped in this respect. This issue has been going on for a long time and has been raised by my group in previous policy debates with the Minister. It already played at the time of the former Netherlands Antilles. We really need to invest more in the professionalisation of island data collection. In this way, it remains a mess and a sensible debate on socio-economic development and policy effectiveness does not come to a higher level. It's not that hard, is it, given the population? Bonaire has 19,000 inhabitants, Sint-Eustatius almost 4,000 and Saba has less than 2,000 inhabitants. What is the Minister going to do to make up for this delay at a rapid pace? Is it only trouble and torment that beats the bell? Definitely not. The Christian Union Group warmly welcomes the progress made in the field of education and health. Fortunately, the islanders themselves experience this as well. There may be investment in educational facilities and care facilities. Here, visible results have been achieved, precisely because the implementation of standards has been carried out here. We do not escape the fact that this line also extends to other policy areas, particularly social security. What can we expect from the Minister in the remaining period of this cabinet? The cabinet, let me put it bluntly, has been on the table for too long. Mr President, let us move on to the administrative-political context. My group is concerned about the administrative instability on the islands and, more particularly, on Bonaire and Saint-Eustatius. What role does the Minister see for himself in order to do something about this? How can we strengthen the political institutions on the islands? Parties, party programmes, political ideologies and elections have a completely different meaning than in our corner of the Kingdom. Cliëntelism is intertwined with political culture. The introduction of administrative dualism encounters boundaries because of the small scale of the islands and the intertwining of primary, social and political links. How does the Minister evaluate this introduction and what impact it has had on Caribbean governance practice? How can things such as the survival of administrative monism be countered and a functioning system of political checks-and-balances, transparency of administrative decision-making, quality of policy implementation and an integrity of political culture promoted? How does the Minister assess the following conclusion of the Spies report in this respect? I quote: 'The quality of public sector bodies' implementation and policy making is not sufficient'. Finally, with regard to the administrative-political context, a somewhat broader question. With the new administrative structure, the involvement of the BES islands in the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and St Martin's and vice versa seems to have been reduced. How does the Minister assess this reduced involvement from his vision of cohesion and cohesion of the Kingdom? Then I come to the legislative process. It has been agreed that at least the evaluation will be subject to legislative restraint. What a beautiful term that is! That evaluation is now before us. It has not become clear to the Christian Union Group from the cabinet response to the Spies report what exactly, after the planned transition period of five years, is the final perspective. In terms of policy areas, the introduction of Dutch laws and regulations may be varied. But is the final prospect of extending the period of legislative restraint or of opting for a major legislative operation to seal the integration of the BES islands? Can the Minister explain the legislative perspective again? What is the dot on the horizon and what time path corresponds with this? In short, where are we on 20-20-20? The Spies Committee points out the dissatisfaction on the islands with regard to consultation of directors and stakeholders on legislative proposals, AMvBs and draft ministerial regulations. Too little capacity, too much time pressure, a feeling of getting flooded from the country Netherlands and a consultation that is experienced as one-sided and top-down. The islands do not have the legal force to play an equal role here. The BES islands, I've been doing the math for a while, have less than 25,000 inhabitants. The Committee considers that the consultation in general was "no success." Does the cabinet share this view and if so what concrete measures have been or are being taken to counter this "overload"? The introduction of medical-ethical legislation has been more or less forced and the discontent is great in this respect. We've been able to see that from our own perception. How does the Minister assess this feeling of misconception and what is he going to do about it? Improving administrative capacity is a priority of the first order for the islands. A strong administrative framework is needed to achieve a sustainable future. And this is not about flying in Dutch officials telling us how to do the job, but about their own Caribbean framework, a new generation of well-educated islanders. A new generation of drivers helping the islands to make the transition to sustainable development. This requires investment and creativity. Can we not link this need for a well-trained framework with the file on return migration and the file on student debt? Many young islanders are now leaving for the Netherlands or other countries for further education. Return migration is not an issue for them because attractive jobs are lacking. Can the Netherlands perhaps allow for study debt relief for those graduate island youngsters who want to strengthen the administrative framework on the islands, who want to look for their future there? Can the Minister shed his light on this? Are there programmes with administrative academies in the Netherlands that can play a training role here? Precisely because professional governance is so important in the islands, we must dare to think out-of-the-box.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u28	If you're talking about provisions on student debt for the islands, are you talking about the six islands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u29	No, this whole piece is about the BES Islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u31	Thank you for your question. I have already indicated that good steps have been taken in the field of education and health care. The BES Islands recognize that, too. My group would also like to see this in the field of labour and poverty reduction. Here is the adage that having a job is the best cure for poverty. What stands out is that the agenda here looks poor. Again many words in the cabinet response about impulses, accents, customization and more of that kind of beauty. A series of clean intentions on labour activation, tax incentives, the level of employers' contributions, the level of assistance in relation to the minimum wage, social housing and debt relief. But concretization remains in the air. However, the cabinet response speaks of a "meaningly intensifying'. It's this kind of hollow phrase that nourishes mistrust. Again, we need objective standards to determine desired levels of prosperity within the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. This remains the focal point of this debate. It's the lever between distrust and trust. The Christian Union Group calls for a much more offensive agenda to help vulnerable groups on the islands structurally, to improve their standard of living. Many goods in the islands are not cheaper than in the European Netherlands, almost everything needs to be imported, but wages and benefits are significantly lower. This wrings. In addition, we must not forget groups that should no longer have paid work, such as the elderly with only AOV and the disabled. Single mothers have a hard time making ends meet. Many children grow up in single-parent families. Eilanders with benefits can barely make ends meet. The existence of these vulnerable groups is at stake. This applies to the group of pensioners to which Mr Nagel referred in detail. Poverty is a serious problem on the islands; you do not need figures to establish it. We need to get everything out of the closet to reverse this problem. Many children grow up in poor conditions and unsafe environments. The violation of fundamental children's rights is a pressing issue on the islands. UNICEF has documented this in detail and shows that the position of children in the Caribbean Netherlands does not comply with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Unhealthy eating habits, unsafe living places, lack of care, absence of facilities for disabled children, abuse, neglect and teenage pregnancy are common phenomena that researchers place against poverty, culture of silence and growing up within fatherless single parent families. A combination of often poor home conditions, limited school development opportunities and low labour market opportunities make life on the islands difficult for young people. My group is deeply concerned about these deep-seated problems. The future of the islands will be made by the youngest generation of islanders. Everything must be in place to give them security and perspective. The 2015-2018 Multiannual Programme Caribbean Netherlands is happy to pay attention to the problematic conditions in which young people grow up in the BES islands. I am thinking here of the establishment of the Task Force on Children's Rights and Domestic Violence. But it is a bunch of individual measures and initiatives that lack the wider story and analysis. Can the Minister share this story with us? Precisely for this story and for the need for comprehensive policy, my motion of 4 June 2013 called for attention in an earlier policy debate with this minister on the future of the Kingdom. Then there is the economic perspective for the islands. The multiannual programme shall focus on promoting entrepreneurship. That's excellent. What my group lacks is an analysis of the opportunities for growth, market niches and what a competitive economic portfolio can look like. Are there any scenarios available here? Are there clear economic choices being made? This also has implications for the supply of education on the islands, for a good match between labour demand and labour supply. Please respond to these points. My group is charmed by the economic vision outlined by Aruba. Green and sustainable development plays a key role in this. What does the Minister have in mind on this point for the BES Islands? A good infrastructure for transport and transport determines the economic impact of the islands and the mobility of the population. Public transport on the islands is inadequate and traffic between the islands depends on expensive flights. What are the plans at this point and what does the Minister think about the feasibility of fast and affordable ferry provision between the islands? The IPKO once again called attention to this earlier this month. The term of this cabinet is almost over. Can the Minister share with my group what issues he wants to deal with in the BES dossier in his remaining term as a govern ment? What will be his policy priorities? The necessary improvements have been made since 10-10-10. This is particularly true of education and health care in the islands. However, much remains to be done in other policy areas. Many groups live on the verge of survival. The debate on how the levels of prosperity of Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba should relate to that of the European Netherlands must be resolved quickly. Objective standards are needed for this. My group wants to see a much stronger direction of the Minister here. Not fine words, but strong deeds. I have put forward a concrete proposal for this. My group also wants the Minister's strong leadership on children's rights. There are plenty of signs that we need strong policies here. What remains is the gnawing feeling that we are so failing to strengthen our Kingdom's basis of trust. There are historical, sociological and geographical explanations for this. Maybe this is just what it is: a business kingdom and not anymore. Nevertheless, my group has a desire that it can and must be more. A shared perspective on who we are, a shared identity, a shared sense of unity and connectedness, and a shared vision on how to make each other stronger within our Kingdom. Unity in diversity. The Christian Union is inspired by this desire, even though there is still a long way to go. We look forward to the Minister's answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u32	Madam President. You're thinking about a debate like this: what are we all supposed to talk about? It is actually about something relatively small, namely three small islands. In Dutch terms you are talking about a medium-sized city and two large villages. You can talk about anything, but you have to find some kind of direction. I have two important themes. First of all, I would like to mention a basic principle: as a group of the Labour Party, we share our responsibility for the well-being of the inhabitants of the islands. This has a very historical background, but it also has to do with a polite sense of co-responsibility. The second point is an important point, which everyone is actually talking about. There is a search for the most effective cooperation. You can choose a constitutional or legal approach, but I myself have chosen a socio-political approach. It's about the search for the most effective relationship and the most effective way to work together, to increase the well-being of the population. You then rely on your observations when you are there, on the results of the Spies Committee and on the answers of the cabinet. The results of the Spies Committee show that education and health care are positive. That's what everyone here has stressed. But it's also kind of a feeling of disappointment. What could it have been and why hasn't it become so beautiful? Before going into this, I would say that you should be aware of the question of how to interpret and understand the administrative and political culture of those islands. Everyone touches it a little bit and corruption, administrative power or whatever they call it. I myself went to look for studies related to the democratic content of small countries. A lot of studies have been carried out on countries with less than 100,000 inhabitants. What is the democratic content of these countries? One would expect a small scale to give more opportunities to organise a fully-fledged democracy. There is a very interesting study of Erk and Veenendaal. That investigation asks whether "small is beautiful." They're just asking that question, is a small country that beautiful? They come to very critical conclusions. I'll mention a few. The formal political institutions often serve as facades. A political competition often tends to a personal competition. Group pressure and even intimidation are a fact of life. The relationship between politicians and citizens is determined by particularism. Freedom of the press is not what it looks like. A positive conclusion is that there is an upward movement in political participation. And the final conclusion I mention is that traditional methods of conflict resolution are still alive. The conclusions seem to me, with all the nuances of that, to be very relevant to the political culture of the islands. There is a more participatory democracy than a representative democracy. Democratic institutions have a mainly facilitating role, including the interests of politicians. They thus become part of a network which must be under the control and supervision of democratic institutions. As a result, checks-and-balances are often lacking. The nuance is that there are, of course, great differences in quality between the islands. Saba, where you see a clearer picture, has already been mentioned by many. There are differences. The political participation should be judged very positively. And frankly, there is also a tendency in the Western democracies towards more personal competition, which is also visible in politics. Instead of the party, the person is at the centre. I don't know which of the members has Netflix. I do. One should look at the Marseilles series, in which the mayoral election in that city is set out nicely. You can see the candidates spreading the permits in the neighbourhoods to facilitate restaurants and allow money laundering. In short, this trip aims to understand who your partner in the cooperation really is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u33	I was just wondering what this beautiful series Marseille has to do with this debate. I hope it is not suggested that we should never have an elected mayor because some permits are being issued in France. I'm just gonna ask you just in case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u34	No, I just want to point out that clientelism and personal cultures are becoming increasingly political even in the southern part of Europe, and perhaps also in our neighbourhood. That's all I wanted to illustrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u35	The southern part of Europe starts just under the rivers these days?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u36	Yeah, that starts in Roermond. So you have to think very carefully about and understand what that culture is. How do we formulate good governance ourselves? It's in our statute. This is the only more legal part of my speech. We have laid down in Article 43 the following: 'Each country shall ensure the achievement of fundamental human rights and freedoms, legal certainty and sound administration'. The validity is introduced there. Paragraph 2 states: "The guarantee of these rights, freedoms, legal certainty and sound administration is a matter for the Kingdom." So we have a view on good governance. Meanwhile, there is a historically grown political culture and structure that has a different character. Good governance is also developed in a treaty that the European Union has with Africa, the Caribbean and Pacific places. It again clarifies what they mean by good governance: "the transparent and responsible management of human and natural resources and economic and financial resources for justification and sustainable development." Good governance implies the existence of clear decision-making procedures in the public administration, transparent and accountable institutions, the primacy of the law in the management and distribution of resources and the building up of capacities for the development and implementation of measures, in particular in order to prevent and combat corruption. That is one of the texts of that agreement that runs until 2020. A very curious sentence is added: "The parties agree that only serious cases of corruption, including bribery leading to such corruption, constitute a violation of this element." If it's not serious, then that's no reason to say it. It must be serious corruption. That's actually what it says. The tension between these aspects of political culture on the islands and how we often look at them formally from this type of agreement is clear. It is a real task to organise, within these different political traditions, the best form of cooperation that contributes to increasing the well-being of citizens. If you don't have an eye for that and only deal with it our way, you have some sort of shattering relationship all the time. Let me give you an example. In anthropology, there is an understanding of interpersonal relationships. Hierarchy is, for example, a relationship, but also a contract, a network or a gift. The latter, a gift, according to the anthropologists, is the most important thing in a relationship. We detest clientelism, of course, but in interpersonal relations that is one of the most important carriers. That's what you see in Bonaire's discontent. Others have indicated this a little bit. The gifts for Bonaire were a prison and a tax building, and no swimming pool, and it would also have been useful to learn how to swim on an island and not to strengthen the port, which is a very large and important element in the economic structure. Another example is that in the political culture of small countries, which I have just described, the short term is much more important than the long term. After all, you have the short term; then you can continue and negotiate again. The short term is therefore very important. We are all making multi-annual programmes, which is typical of our policy thinking, while visibility and practicality in the short term greatly strengthen the power of implementation. If the Minister sees this cultural tension, should he not, on the one hand, pay more attention to understanding that culture, but, on the other hand, consider how, for example, to deal with matters such as the short and long term and how to judge the clientele? On the one hand, there is arbitrariness, which we are very critical of, but on the other hand, it is often an aspect of community, of doing something with each other and getting a gift. Many have already identified the theme of "simplifying the relationship." The design of the relationship between the Dutch part of the Kingdom and the BES islands is considered complex. We're talking about 25,000 inhabitants, which is half of a neighborhood in Tilburg. With regard to the applicability of the regulation and its operational power, the question arises whether we can do it more easily. In the excursion it was brought forward more often. I see the people of the BES Islands walking through the departments looking for an official who's about a thing. They'll be lucky if they meet a good official. In education, for example, we have a good official, and in another department I will not say which one they do not hear. That's how they look for partners. With such a small scale it should be possible to build a more direct relationship with the Netherlands with a compact task force and fewer consultants? I have often wondered, especially in relation to Saba and the functions that are not fulfilled, whether a relationship with a somewhat robust village or a medium-sized city would not be stronger. For example, the head of Human Resources could help out for three years if someone in the Finance Department of a medium-sized city could help. Would a network of cities not increase simplicity much more and increase effectiveness? One of the recommendations in the Spies report is the call for economic differentiation. I'm just gonna go back to Curaçao. I don't know if that's okay, but I think it's the best example. If you want to innovate Mr.Ester talked about this or want to look for niches and sectors, in economic theory it's usually about path dependence: you build on something that exists. For example, it is quite amazing to walk around the island and to see that there is no fishing. Fishing is from Venezuela. So this is a country where the inhabitants are probably afraid of the sea. A lot of Curaçao people can't swim. On the Cape Verde islands, on the other hand, everyone lives off the sea. How is it that people on one island are very sea-oriented and not at all on the other island? You will not have to start fishing, because there is hardly any point of contact to develop it. It is very different in agriculture and horticulture, which is mentioned in the Spies report. It is strange that a country with so many problems of self-sufficiency comes from Venezuela, all this with boats on the market has built irrigation pipes at the resorts to grow the flowers. It should therefore be possible to apply irrigation elsewhere. How is it that there is little development in agriculture and horticulture? Can the Netherlands help with this? What is the path dependency? When Shell came to Curaçao at the beginning of last century, the company had thousands of Portuguese contract workers for a long period; these were illiterate farmers from Madeira. Let me put aside the exploitation of these people. The contract workers had an agricultural background and with their gardens, especially when the family happened, the horticulture developed somewhat. In the end, they have grown up and become numerous as vegetable farmers and grocers; they are often Portuguese people. One could say that a path dependence from that population is possible in the field of agriculture and horticulture. The Netherlands, champion of know-how in the field of agricultural industry and water supply champions, should be able to explore in dialogue with that island whether agriculture and horticulture can be developed further. There is a whole project in schools in Curaçao for dining gardens, where an attempt is made to raise children to develop gardens for eating. That's against obesity, but it also has to do with a sense of horticulture. Can the Minister call on Wageningen to consider possibilities in a country with so much sun, as in the past has happened a few times? It must also be possible that a cauliflower doesn't cost four and a half dollars. Many have talked about the social problem. At the heart of the matter, I share the view that social security needs to be clarified. What is a social minimum? How do you define that? That level must have a relationship with the standard of living and the expenses you see there, but it should also be much more in the direction we have in the Netherlands. I don't understand how that's so hard to do. It is about such a small number; 900 or 600 people. It's all change. Why can't you bring that social security close to how we do it in the Netherlands? I don't believe in the sucking effect at all. You have to live there for five years. There is no broad economy where people can go. I think it should be brought to Dutch level in these villages. Another subject has also been touched: the brain drain. That's a big problem on all those islands. The talented children go to study in the United States or in the Netherlands and don't come back. The islands need young people who are trained in entrepreneurship and take the initiative. It has been said by one of the speakers that there has been an arrangement in the past to encourage this. If you return after five years, something will be done about the student debt. I think it is very important for the islands to develop a facility for a return movement of talented, entrepreneurial young people. I ask the Minister if there are any thoughts on that. As always in life, safety is a prerequisite for everything. It's basic that you don't feel threatened. I think the Netherlands is doing very well, but there are still relatively many murders in Curaçao. There's also a drug problem. It's crucial that Helmin Wheels' murder be solved. This has an iconic meaning for the inhabitants of Curaçao. People are looking for it in political circles. That investigation has been going on for a long time. Shouldn't you be putting in extra detectives to get that over with? I've talked to police officers about it, and they know about what angle it's in, but they're gonna have problems with witnesses. That's always the case in these constellations. Then I come to a completely different subject, because it's a little ripe and green, or a kaleidoscopic chat. Tourism is crucial to the economy of the islands, as is the financial world, oil and the maritime sector. Everywhere on these islands tourism is at least partly fed by diving and coral. I have been told that the coral is of great importance as a natural beauty, but also for the defence of the coasts. For that coral it is of great importance that it is driven into food-poor water. That's very interesting. It is similar to the discussion in the Netherlands about the construction of our coasts. That is where the question arises as to whether parts of those islands are uncultivated where that coral can develop and reproduce. There are also organizational committees that run lawsuits. It's really a fight for that coral. My question to the Minister is whether we can support those organisations that are trying to develop and defend that coral, as a very important economic feature of these islands. My final point is the Disputes Committee. I won't say much about it. My view is: if both sides agree, I agree. That would also fit in with the culture of the small countries. In it one party takes a sage and one party takes a sage and an even wiser chairman. Who intercedes and intercedes, and when it's done, that's the decision. This is how it would be in the culture of the small countries. In Asia and Africa it is also very common to do so. There have been very long stories about the legal side; whether it is binding or not binding. I think they're very important, but it's hard for me to innerize them. I hope that the House of Representatives and the Minister will find a solution that can also be supported by both parties. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u37	Mr. Chairman. I understand I have to keep the middle between abrasive relationships and colliding tectonic plates. Where I come from, we'll see. In my speech today, I would like to focus on the evaluations of the new political structure of the BES islands after 10-10-2010, and in particular on the cabinet response to the report of the Spies Commission, which has already been mentioned. I think it would be useful to respond to the policy debate in this Chamber on the future of the Kingdom on 4 June 2013. Finally, I will give a brief account of the position of the countries within the Kingdom after the dismantling of the Netherlands Antilles. On 28 April 2000, Mr Jaime Saleh, Professor of Constitutional Kingdom Law, noted that "the fact that areas that are so far apart have a state-law relationship is not based on logic, but can only be declared historical', as mentioned above. If it were not for the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands to have already taken possession of the six islands in 1634, this historical anomaly would not have caused as much discussion as it still unfortunately is. The Minister, who finds this dossier the most exciting part of his portfolio, also stated in 2013 that the current structure would not normally have been met. My group can join in this line. In the meantime, it is not so much the certainty that our Kingdom would be designed differently that concerns us now, but rather the question of whether the most recent restructuring has been the right one and whether, in view of all the evaluations, we should not go another way. To make it more complex, the asymmetry that the United Nations imposed on our country plays a very restrictive role in any further design. As far as my group is concerned, the fact that it would not be possible for the former colonialist to step out of the context unilaterally so many years after that does not so logically follow from the past. And every moral responsibility has an end. It is crucial that "the way to the future" is clearly defined. The establishment of the Staff Regulations, as the basis for the restructuring of the current structure, should be the beginning of a further process, especially now that these evaluations are in progress. The transition in 2010 was necessarily dominated by legislative and administrative design issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u38	Mr Kok rightly points out to himself how long the past will last in the present and in the future. There is still something to be done about this, namely that we do not decide for ourselves what can be done in the future, but that there are also international law frameworks for this. Does Mr Kok mean that we should also question these international legal frameworks, or are they simply the reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u39	Thanks for the question. I am aware of the constitutional limitations. I tried to report it. I'll get back to you on that. This was more out of the box thinking. In that sense, I am trying to broaden the context for myself and for this debate, because otherwise our approach may be a little too limited. Finally, it is also a policy debate. I'm moving on. Now that the first part of the journey has been completed, the focus should be on the future in the form of a more strategic approach. Can the Minister indicate whether the scope of this cabinet goes beyond the somewhat disappointing remarks that "the processing of the transition is still in progress" or that "it is too early"? In this context, could the Minister clarify the Committee's wish that "this evaluation should provide the basis for an impetus to bring closer to the original objectives of political change"? Can the Minister not already reflect on a further future? The minimalist interpretation of 'but to see how we can make it better', as ventilated in the debate with this Chamber on 18 November 2014, can now be left behind. Or is this cabinet of the opinion that the findings of the Spies Committee in particular are still merely being answered in the form of a very pragmatic response, characterized by a somewhat blurred interpretation of the concept of restraint? I can imagine in all my heart that more can be expected from an intermediate position. Such an approach does not do justice to the still kindly expressed, but in fact strongly criticised by the Spies Committee, nor to the growing discontent within Parliament, as well as among the inhabitants of the islands. My group welcomes the work of the Spies Committee, which has had to do its research in a limited period of time. I note that this deficiency has been partially compensated by the use of three independent research reports, such as those of the SCP and the DSP group. In this sense, it is appropriate to refer to sufficiently substantiated findings. The fact that the committee did not make the agreements made, and in particular the chosen political structure, subject to evaluation, is, in itself, a limitation, but it is very explainable given the chaotic nature of the vision clause between the 1993 Conference of the Future and the final choice of the status of "special municipality." Remarkable in this process is the elimination of a free association model in favour of a later integration model, which was subsequently weakened as a final perspective. There can be talk of a flawed start. Especially when it is thought that the government previously linked the intended final perspective to the evaluation. However, there is little concrete evidence of this in the cabinet response. My group considers this reaction to be extremely lean and hesitant. Can the Minister indicate whether the cabinet really does not make a choice and leaves options open? Is there even a vision? It seems too easy to hide behind the evaluation committee and to opt too pragmaticly for concrete measures and practical solutions. For a long time, the motto seems to be muddling. My group can very well imagine that there are even more drastic steps to be considered in order to finally put a definitive line under a colonial past. Administrative structures are not for the form, but they must be carried by the citizens of this country and the islands. What else do we do it for, after all? The current structure is now almost exclusively perceived as a kind of neocolonization. The report by the Spies Committee is extremely critical and does not give much hope. Even if it is thought that five years is not long, and perhaps too early for a final judgment, my group has not become very optimistic about it. I have no intention of raising it here in extenso, but a number of major findings cannot go undisputed. The transition from the three BES islands to public bodies within the Dutch state system has led to a substantively uncoordinated and overcomplex legislative process. An overkill of often unnecessary, hasty and incoherent legislation has flooded the islands, leading to the necessary implementation problems. The notion that the primacy has now come to a central legislative level and that major powers have come to lie with the ministers concerned, which has considerably reduced the space for the islands, remains to be found there. Can the Minister indicate whether it is possible at all to maintain the pretence of legislative restraint, given the chosen constitutional institution combined with the option in the Staff Regulations to different rules and specific measures? There has been no question of any legislative calm so far. Isn't this the main problem of the permanent split in a structure that is perceived to be too dominant colonialist on the islands, and on the other hand requires a lastingly difficult, if not impossible, role-playing from the Netherlands? The debate on the special characteristics seems to be a constant source of disagreement. The great question that arises is whether fundamental rethinking is not necessary. Can the Minister comment on this? What's his agenda for the future? Another highly problematic issue is the functioning of the new administrative structure. Knowing that many problems in this area existed before the transition, it is doubtful whether anything has really improved since then. This, referring to the conclusion of the DSP Group in its September 2015 report, that "the new administrative structure has not been able to eliminate most of the administrative challenges that already existed before 10-10-10."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u40	Does Mr Kok realize that you can only change the Statute, which we drew up at the time, with the consent of all the countries in the Kingdom? That's what makes it very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u41	I am aware of that. In my view, that's a big bottleneck. I'm moving on. My group is not optimistic about this. Dualism seems to be another step too far and democratic control by the island council varies in euphemistic terms from "not optimal" to "limited." For several reasons, such as candidate requirements, restrictive provisions, numerical size and remuneration, there does not seem to be a good chance that a democratic balance will ever arise. In such a vacuum, the position of authority will not be able to develop. The same applies in the secondary sense to the State representative, whose powers and supervisory instruments are not effective in practice. The system of checks-and-balances is therefore completely out of control. What is the Minister's estimate that this system will ever function fully? And what does he propose to do about it? Or should it be accepted, for convenience, that the quality of the administration and the performance of island tasks is simply poor and permanent support from The Hague is necessary if it is already desirable? When it comes to carrying out national tasks, can the Minister indicate whether and, if so, how he can contribute to a more integrated approach to policy-making in The Hague, given the existing cookery? Now the image is that every department travels freely and operates on its own. I would like to remind you once again of the report of the National Coordination of the Caribbean Netherlands of March 2014, which shows that BZK has difficulty in shaping its coordinating role in a meaningful way. Has anything changed since then? Have the five recommendations of the Van Gastel Committee taken over by the cabinet really been taken up? I'd like to hear the state of play. To what extent does the Minister share the experience of the islanders that they hardly feel represented by the European Netherlands? Research shows that the islands are not able to effectively address their interests in The Hague. A third and coherent issue of concern is the financial relationship between the Empire and the islands. To conclude, it is worrying that neither the size of the necessary resources nor the internal distribution between the departments has been properly substantiated, except for the lack of a reference point for available resources under the old LNA structure, where good administration was already lacking. The increase in national spending from 80 million in 2010 to a small 260 million in 2016 is undoubtedly explosive, according to the Spies Committee. In his response on 6 June in the Lower House, the Minister uses the increase from 101 million in 2010 to 367 million in 2016. Minus taxes are about 240 million net, or €10,000 net per islander. It may cost a bit. Will the Minister clarify the various amounts and explain the huge increase? Where ideally there should be a central direction and where, moreover, the financial autonomy of the islands is very limited, this insists. Of course, there are additional costs associated with having public bodies with all the island characteristics, but where does this exponential increase end? Despite the centralist position of the Empire, budgetary control seems to be completely out of control. I would like to have an explanation of this. And are there perhaps more money flows outside these amounts, such as funds provided by ministries outside the island budget? Does the Minister intend to include in his reply the development of the free allowance? If you see how much money is being pumped into the three islands, undoubtedly with the best intentions, then the question is whether all that money, which is growing enormously, is going to end up well and is being spent in a responsible way. The second key question is whether the existing structure is not so suboptimal that it is better to change it. The fact that the Spies Committee does not say anything about this is obvious, because it does not make any recommendations. But does the minister really think that the figure of public body, a kind of municipality with an open end, offers the space to make improvements, as he argued in the House of Representatives on June 6th? And what exactly is he thinking about? If we look at the results achieved after five years of transition, the picture is not easy, despite the huge budget that has been spent. This picture is already cloudy in any case, since there was no zero measurement in most priority policy areas, which makes any evaluation impossible in advance. In addition, there is no systematic quantitative data collection to measure developments. Hard statistical data are missing. All findings are therefore based solely on purely qualitative information and the perception of interviewees. It is therefore remarkable, as has already been mentioned, that the CBS was able to observe for the first time on 1 June that purchasing power in the Caribbean Netherlands increased in 2012 and 2013. The value of these figures is not yet clear. With all limitations, the general picture is lean and often disappointing, especially for the residents, who thought that their world would noticeably improve by 10-10-10. Economic growth has mainly declined in GDP terms, except Saba. Poverty has increased, partly as a result of adverse price developments, dollarisation and a low level of social welfare. The global crisis also played a part. The introduction of a new tax system with price-driven effects has certainly not contributed. In particular, double taxation is an unfair thorn in the eye. In this context, can the Minister indicate which groups, with the revision of the fiscal system, which is supposed to produce a macro budget, have deteriorated at micro level? And how can it be that people with high incomes in particular have sometimes improved significantly through the new system? I am the last speaker to mention what has been said on many occasions about what should have been an 'acceptable level of provision'. As early as 2008 the agreement was made in the administrative consultation to establish standards, but unfortunately nothing was done before and after the transition, with the exception of research in the fields of education and health care. Can the Minister explain why the 2015-2018 multiannual programme does not include standards again, but at most the open-minded effort to investigate them? In any case, there is no question of an integrated multiannual programme. As stated by the Spies Committee, there is 'no coherent, forward-looking approach' but more a random list of what is called 'incidental ministerial intensification'. This seems exemplary for the entire course of events before and after the transition. It is a rage of well-intentioned initiatives without any form of coordination, resulting in a process, certainly financially, out of control. If the Minister is sometimes satisfied with the level of provision already proposed by the Havermans Committee in 2006 at Curaçao, it should be noted that the Spies Committee did not consider this point of departure to be a strong ambition for an improved level of provision. Where does the minister want to go now? What's his plan of action? Honesty requires that both primary education and health care have improved in many respects. A particular concern is that students, who are going to study massively in the Netherlands, do not come back. This is a brain drain for the islands, which stops any progress. How does the Minister intend to tackle this point? Various improvements have also been made in infrastructure, although the need is sometimes questioned by the islanders. See the tax office on Bonaire and the aforementioned prison there. However, when it comes to labour and social security, the picture is complex and more than worrying. I mention the increasing, often hidden, poverty, a poor labour market and the growth of benefits. Again, there is no norming of the social minimum such as the under stand. Does the Minister intend to further develop the open standard of living security in the multiannual programme and to take specific measures in the area of AOV and disability? Any form of an integrated problem approach and approach seems to be completely absent here too. Why only now 'give priority to the basic needs of the islands and unjustified differences', as the Minister recently stated in his reply of 1 June to this Chamber? As we already experienced on our working visit in April, the island discontent is very manifest. The transition has been achieved under too high pressure and with a virtually complete focus on legislation. The consultation of the islands was also insufficient. The general feeling is still that one is ruled remotely. The support for the current design is low and the unease is great. Apparently, the expectations were too high. There is little regard for what has been achieved. Reality doesn't seem very high. Whether more autonomy solves something in this context is only the question. The confidence in one's own administration is not great either. The only thing one is ported from is an increase in one's own free financial area. In the European Netherlands, we see an equal perception of growing irritation and reproach over not taking responsibility, despite the large amount of money spent on the islands. There are three small islands with a small 25,000 inhabitants. The whole has become a toxic mixture of emotion, perception and a far-reaching mixture of images and facts. Why have the islands not been consulted on the Spies dossier and not been asked for their vision for the cabinet response? This seems to us to be a mistake of the first order; talking about acceptance. The question of whether or not the two worlds will ever find each other seems almost rhetorical. How much faith does the Minister have left? Much has been invested in the BES and progress has certainly been made on parts, but how does he explain the permanent dissatisfaction and the call for looser ties? In conclusion, I would like to make some comments on the autonomous countries within the Kingdom. As pointed out earlier, there is a special form of state without an exit option for our country, but with a voluntary nature for the other three countries, while the Statute can only be amended with full agreement. It is a very common form of state: no unitary state, no Confederation and no commonwealth. A residual figure "sui generis" then, forward, a rather meaningless term for an artificial construction, which does not evoke warm feelings and is increasingly perceived as oppressive. From our point of view, there is an asymmetrical link with the highest ambition "to keep things together." Where did we hear that? This figure is becoming more and more like a strangle contract, with the only advantage that these islands are supposed to keep their own pants up financially. Without an evaluation, it can already be said that the restructuring by 2010 has not really changed, let alone improved. Despite the diversity between countries, the common elements are distrust and indifference. Shared interests are missing. Any basis for any form of political connection is virtually absent. The sui-generisverband only relies on a negative use of the horse's tool of the guarantee function and the giving of clues. That's a very weak base. In fact, there is no more ideal basis, such as a transatlantic link. What's left is the unwanted role of policeman. My group thinks it is now and then time for a fundamental rethink of the existing figure. So far, there's no more spirit. Further dressing of the Statute hardly seems to us to be an option. What does the Minister think about this? With all good intentions, I have not tasted any will and intention in our work visit to these islands to achieve anything of cooperation. The range of findings varied from unhindered aversion to aperte disinterest among the respective drivers. Staying in the lessonr of two evils has proved to be the most feasible. The absence of a dispute settlement is symptomatic of the low point in the proportions. It demonstrates in solid form the underlying distrust within the Kingdom. In addition, the image of the Dutch citizen, who has also had it a bit with what is happening elsewhere and what blows over to our country. I am talking specifically about corruption, integrity problems, crime, inadequate financial policy, nepotism and political clientelism, political murders, poisoning and conflict of interest. That's no business to be happy about. In any case, it's not something you've wanted to be associated with for too long. Sint-Maarten is the crown in that respect. The destructive DNB report on the conduct of business at the abandoned insurer Ennia on Curaçao is again illustrative, resulting in tens of thousands of uncovered policies. I can add to that the many pensioners whose contributions have not been properly paid. It is not only what is happening overseas that has little sympathy here, but also the criminal behaviour of a large group of young people who have come here. It is a group that is often out of the question and is involved in crime or assistance. Does this have the attention of the Minister, or is he waiting for an initiative bill to be presented to the House of Representatives? How does he look at setting conditions for establishment in our country? Another question that is very topical in this context is how the Minister assesses the expected rush of poor Venezuelans on Aruba and other islands and what its consequences may be. In any case, the Aruban authority has already indicated that it is not prepared and that it is thinking of foreign troops and probably Dutch support. What is the role of our country? What are the scenarios of this minister, not only for Aruba, but also for all the other islands? Mr President, I will conclude. It should be clear that reality does not allow itself to be wrapped up in any structure. A reality of, let me just say, unequally voted countries do not improve with even more legislation and rules from The Hague. Any sense of urgency for a shared future seems to belong to a past that we should conclude with a clear vision of a different form of the Kingdom, which is now seen as a mini-EU; a soulless technocratic construct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Kok. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. According to the schedule, we're gonna suspend now. However, in consultation with various spokesmen and the Minister, and also to bring forward the final time of this debate so that it does not have to be midnight, I suggest that we proceed now until 5 p.m. and then continue at 6.15 p.m. I'd like to suspend briefly now. The Minister then answers a piece of the first term. After the suspension, if we move on, he'll answer the second piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u43	The next item is the continuation of the debate on assessments in the context of political renewal and on kingdom relations in general. I shall resume the debate and give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u44	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on this somewhat rainy day, in this somewhat dark room in some corners, and also in view of the gloomy speeches here and there, I would like to remind you of a week ago when I visited Curaçao and Bonaire. I want to share two images with you. First one's on Curaçao. This is an initiative that is trying to get the film industry to Curaçao. Makers, for a part of Dutch origin and part of Curaçao origin, of the film Double Game, an American produced film, now intend to start a major film industry there, including a studio. They even think about a train that would go from the passenger terminal to backstage, as we know from Universal Studios and other tourist attractions. The Minister for Economic Affairs of Curaçao, Rhuggenaath, was there. He supports that initiative where it can be done. It could be that with the large amount of free nature, the beautiful sea, the plenty of space and here and there a number of historic buildings, it is a place for a successful film industry. Of course, we still have to see what comes of it. It was asked whether there could not be a new industry there next to the Isla refinery, so I might have been present last week at the start of such a new industry. In any case, it is a good way of working together between the private sector and the enthusiastic Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Rhuggenaath, who took it well. The second moment was the day before, on Bonaire, where I together with the newly appointed deputy Den Heyer went to the broad school that started there. It will be officially opened soon. There are still some gardens to be built and so on, but that is really a wonderful school for 400 students, from 4 years to the middle school age. If you see the classes there with just good material and good teachers and masters, really at the level you would like to have in a piece of the Netherlands that Bonaire is, then there is every reason to be proud. Then we can also be proud of the people of OCW who of course went there and made sure that a beautiful school was created there, along with the people on the ground, of course. I believe that school will be officially opened in September. The road to it hasn't been paved yet. The deputy is now working on the deputy for infrastructure to argue that the latter will also be taken up quickly. With these two images I would like to say that a lot of good is happening and that we can also help each other to make life better for people, especially the people on the six islands, because that is ultimately the goal of politics and certainly of all the considerations here. My answer is as follows: First, I will make a number of general comments on the Kingdom as a whole. Then I go to the Caribbean Netherlands and then to the countries. Before I start on each of those blocks, let me mention the layout so that the Chamber knows at what point a subject is completed. First of all, in a general sense, about the Kingdom. Looking at these six islands on the map of the world, you can see that they are about 900 km apart and that they are stately split in an illogical way, namely two public bodies in the Upper Winds and one in the Lower Winds, who together with European Netherlands, what Louis Napoleon called a sludge of French rivers, form a country and are in a kingdom with three other countries. That is a constellation that you would never invent again and that you can only understand from history. So far history has brought us. I have sometimes tried at a Kingdom Conference to look with the Prime Ministers of the other countries on the table to see if there could be the beginning of an agreement on where we would like to be in 20 years' time. The conclusion was: that's an opportunityless exercise. Firstly, because there are very different views among the countries. At that time however well, the political wind can also turn again... was Aruba for a firmer anchored Kingdom and Curaçao much less. You can also see that political parties before the elections tend to strongly stress that they want to become independent in the long term and then put a little more emphasis on the fact that it has to be done in the long term, because for the next ten years there are still a number of issues that can be better dealt with in the Kingdom. The political volatility there is even greater than here. So on that side of the ocean, the basis for developing a vision of where we would like to stand in twenty years' time is a complicated exercise. To be honest, I think that, when it comes to it, it's complicated on this side of the ocean, too. In the Lower House, a large party disrespectfully said that it wanted to put the whole thing on Marktplaats, so, in other words, to solve the whole connection. But the SP and the government party VVD have also made the proposal, and Mr Van Kappen has also mentioned it here in order to make it a commonwealth. That sounds attractive because then the obligations will disappear and voluntary cooperation will be undertaken, but that will put an end to the asymmetry that exists in the Kingdom at the moment. Let me now explain this asymmetry... Or will Mr Van Kappen say something on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u45	I give the floor to Mr Van Kappen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u46	I would like to point out to the Minister that I did not mention the commonwealth proposal, because I am not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u47	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u48	I said it's hard to change it. Either they have to become independent or you have to transform the whole Kingdom into a federation, but we don't see anything in that. A commonwealth would be nice, but as the Statute is put together, it is not going to work. Then all countries must become independent, and that is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u49	Thank you for this explanation. I would have misunderstood that. The fact is that in the Lower House the VVD did make that proposal. That would, as I said, put an end to the asymmetry. The United Nations Charter brings about an asymmetry that means that out of the four countries, if they have the persistent desire to do so, they can loosen up and even leave the Kingdom, but one country is not, and that is the Netherlands, because it is the former colonialist. That is indeed a morally justifiable view from history, but that goes hand in hand with a second asymmetry. After Suriname has disappeared from the Kingdom and before that, long ago, the Dutch East Indies, 98% of the inhabitants live in the European Netherlands and thus only 2% on the other side of the ocean. In fact, in a national ministerial council with thirteen Dutch ministers and three overseas ministers, the representation is already tenfold in favour of the inhabitants of the overseas countries and territories. There is no other way, so I have no objection to that at all, but that asymmetry is a fact. This means, for example, that the Kingdom can supervise finances in other countries, but on the other hand, the countries on the international capital market borrow for Dutch interest rates which are almost zero, while Aruba borrows for the interest rates that would apply to an independent country in the Caribbean; then an interest rate of between 6% and 7% is paid. More than half of Aruba's interest burden is interest as a result. That is 15% of the budget that goes into that. You can loosen it all up. This is an example from the financial markets. It is also important to ensure democracy, human rights and the rule of law in terms of the locational environment and the willingness of companies to invest, with a certain degree of responsibility in the Kingdom. I personally belong to those who believe that, with all the ifs and buts and with all the objections that there are, the Kingdom is ultimately good for all of us, especially for the countries there. It's under pressure, though. As I said, in some countries of the Kingdom there are political parties that advocate autonomy, sovereignty or independence for the longer term. I also mentioned the proposals for a commonwealth construction that are going around here and there. In any case, the interest in the subject of the Kingdom is not as great here and there as it could be. I am therefore pleased that you have cleared the agenda for this all day and that all parties are present. It's different across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u50	I understand very well that the Minister says he wants it to stay the way it is. The countries remain within the Kingdom. They can get out, we can't. The situation is as it is and must remain so. I hope he's willing to deal with corruption. I'll just mention Saint Martin. I'll just mention Curaçao. It's radiating towards us, too. I hope, therefore, that he will respond to my statement that we cannot allow that to happen on that side of our Kingdom and that it will also radiate on us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u51	Because, of course, corruption is ultimately bad for a country and for a population of a country and we guarantee good governance from the Kingdom, two years ago, there was indeed an indication from the National Council of Ministers to do something, including and in particular from two research reports which showed that the underworld and the upper world were now approaching each other very much. That may be a reason to do something about it from the point of view of guarantee. We must always remember that the big words that are sometimes used in the Netherlands, Mrs Meijer, do not seem very big on the other side of the ocean. I run into a lot of decent people, including Saint Martin, Curaçao and Aruba, so let's not generalize. However, where there are abuses, they must be denounced. That could be a Kingdom responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u52	If you don't mind, I'll stick to that. Of course the Minister is right. There are a lot of good people in the Netherlands, a lot of good people in the Caribbean and a lot of good people in the countries within the Kingdom. However, in the previous elections there was a political party that could pay $150 per inhabitant to buy a vote. That's not small, I think that's something big. Then I think you should say: either you belong to one kingdom and we'll all take it on together, then we'll really take it on and we won't allow it or we'll all go our own way. For example, you can choose a commonwealth. Something in between shouldn't exist, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u53	We choose the first. Last year, we invested 22 million in law enforcement, especially in the RST, the Detective Collaboration Team. We want to tackle it together and together, with the emphasis on 'together'. We have reached agreement with the then Minister for Justice of Saint Martin on the use of these resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u54	Then I can only conclude that too little is happening when I look at the latest abuses that we have recently been allowed to read in the Dutch Financial Journal. I don't think there's much going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u55	I think I disagree with that. We don't have a magic wand here. They remain autonomous countries. It may be that good governance, good governance and human rights are at stake in such a way that it becomes a Kingdom responsibility, but the public prosecutor is autonomous, within the Netherlands and all the way across the ocean. The logic that as long as something goes wrong there, the Kingdom Government is not doing well, I do not want to take over. However, I agree with Mrs Meijer that we have a common responsibility and that we must work hard on it. Mr De Graaf and Mrs Teunissen stressed the differentiation between the islands. The same applies in the Caribbean Netherlands. The island board of the Upper Wind Islands finds nothing more unpleasant than receiving a letter in the Papiaments. This, of course, speaks of a great disinterest, as if it were all from the same sheet. We would also find it strange to get letters in Italian, the language spoken in a country that I believe is 900 kilometres away. At the explicit request of the public bodies, we also talk as little as possible about the BES. In the organization we try as much as possible to do business with each of the islands separately. This diversity also applies between countries, of course. After my next final comment, I will turn to the specific issues as soon as possible. Ms Van Bijsterveld felt that it was time for the amendment of the constitution to give voting rights to the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands. I am glad to hear that and I hope that this will happen. If we do that now, it can be adopted at second reading after the end of the Chamber in mid-March next year, even before the next state elections. In 2019, the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands could vote indirectly for the Dutch Senate for the first time. If we miss that moment, it'll be 2023. No one wants that. We still have a few months left, but it's another constitutional change, and you don't go through it in a curse and a sigh. If you have the opportunity, I'd be happy to be available. I'm automatic, you know. Anyway, I hope you'll take care of it. I'm going to Caribbean Netherlands first. I shall then turn to the comments that have been made on the countries. In doing so, I am going to go through the speakers in detail. The general conclusion, looking back on the evaluation of the Spies Committee, I shall discuss it first. Then I will talk about the issues we have talked about a lot: the State representative and his position, administrative power and integrity and social aspects such as the minimum wage and so on. Those are the three specific issues. The conclusion of the Spies evaluation committee is that it does not recommend that the administrative structure be restarted completely and that a whole new classification be achieved. I think it would also be wise for Mr De Graaf to say that every five years you do not just have to deal with legal structures. It is better to take this as a fact now and see if improvements can be made within the structure. Nevertheless, it is an important conclusion. Of course, we could have said five years later: this has been a terrible mistake, we should not have done this. Fortunately, that is not the conclusion of the evaluation committee or of the government. Moreover, there is very little tendency on the islands to question this substance. Now that I say so, I must add the exception that there was, of course, a referendum at Bonaire on whether we were satisfied with the current structure. If you asked that question in the Netherlands, the outcome would have been the same. No alternative was mentioned either. At Bonaire 62% said they were not satisfied. It is now up to the new board to determine whether it will be followed up and, if so, which. Last week I had a conversation with Mr Finies and some of his supporters of the small movement Noske Boneiru Bèk, i.e.: We want Bonaire back. I do not like the word Bèk, because in "We want Bonaire back" nostalgia sounds like it was all so good there, while there was a lot of misery and poverty. I like the slogan "Nos ke Boneiru bon," or "We want Bonaire good." In general, there is consensus about not raising the issue of the structure. That is not the government's commitment either. Much progress has been made in a number of areas, including education. That's what members have mentioned. The new wide school has been mentioned, but I've been to other schools before. There has also been a nice, decent hospital on Bonaire and a new prison, which is constantly being snorted as if that has been an incredible mistake. The penitentiary facility on Bonaire was very bad and affected human rights. I understand that it is not so nice for the picture to quickly replace a prison, but this one apparently worked out inhumanely within the Netherlands, so I am glad that the Ministry of Security and Justice has realized this. So there are a number of areas where great progress has been made, but we are far from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u56	I don't think there's anyone, not even Bonaire, who objects to building a prison. Nor do I think that anyone would object to a building for the National Representative or for the Dutch Caribbean Office. I think that the discontent is due to the difference between these investments and the remaining investments in other areas. So prison isn't the problem. The problem is the lack of other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u57	I understand. I would add that I am pleased that the prison was properly established. But we're far from there. Much remains to be done in two other areas. The first concerns infrastructure. The roads aren't as good as they should be. The same applies to airports and ports. The administrative colleges and the Dutch departments have agreed. Much remains to be done in the area of social affairs. With each of the islands, a multiannual plan was drawn up last year in which precisely those areas were planned. The administrative colleges and the Dutch departments have agreed on what should happen in the coming years. The differentiation I have just mentioned has been introduced. I'll be right back to the social aspects. There is indeed a great deal to be done in these areas. So we're a long way from here. That is my overall conclusion on the basis of the evaluation. I come to the role of the National Representative. Mrs Van Bijsterveld, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr De Graaf spoke about this. They also asked if you shouldn't change that title. I thought Mrs Van Bijsterveld said that the National Representative has about the same position as the King's Commissioner. But you could say that title also suggests one-way traffic. By the way, the King's Commissioners are almost all men. In fact, the King's commissioner is an important factor in the Hague theatre to defend the interests of, for example, the province of Brabant or the province of Limburg. In the title alone, it's not him. I do think it is the intention that the State representative should work in two directions. That is the answer to Mr De Graaf's specific question. The text may suggest that the State representative is only an outpost of the government on the islands, but the word "forepost" is used in the context that the State representative is a outpost vis-à-vis the departments. That doesn't mean he can't do anything but represent the Empire on the islands. He's here all the time. Then he'll go to the departments, too. A somewhat sad picture was sketched of lost island leaders trying to find the right official in a department, but in general the State representative is playing briefly on the ball to ensure that the right person is reached. He's always reachable, too. When I talk to people from board colleges, they're positive about that. They know where to find him. His door is always open and he can always make sure that they come to the right place with their questions, desires, wishes and insights. There has been a change in the role of the National Representative. This change resulted from the previous evaluation, in 2014. Mr. Kok asked for that. Sometimes liaisons of departments appeared to be working on their own on an island. When they were addressed to them, a few people tended to say: listen, I answer to my minister, as it falls under the ministerial responsibility, but not to someone appointed by the BZK. On the basis of the previous, small evaluation two years ago, we said: that is no way to work. We have made it more specific in the policy response to the report of the Spies Committee by comparing the role of the National Representative with the role of the Permanent Representative in Brussels. Such a role must be played by the State representative. So it is not possible for someone to do business on an island on behalf of a ministry and for the State representative to read that in the newspaper. Indeed, there must be coordination between the State representative. All departments agree with that, by the way. In doing so, the ministerial responsibility remains. That requires a certain wisdom from everyone in dealing with it. A request was made for the perseverance of the Minister of BZK. That would be a different structure. Then the State representative I appointed could say: we have all looked at it carefully and we are doing so with dental help on Bonaire. But then the Minister for Foreign Affairs is ultimately responsible. However, this is not the case in the current structure. In the current structure, the departmental responsibility remains with each of the departments, but coordination towards the people on the islands requires the State representative to ensure that it is done properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u58	This raises the question of what exactly the word "co-ordination" means. Is it about perseverance or coordination or something in between? This also gives me the opportunity to move on to the following questions. The Minister mentioned the example I raised in my written questions, namely the comparison with cooperation in Europe. The various departments can also play a role in the representation of the Netherlands. I have not received an answer to my question as to whether the State representative and the Permanent Representative to the European Union are comparable. The European framework is not primarily concerned with policy implementation, but with matters such as advice, lobbying, making connections, etc. That is of a totally different order, given the power of perseverance and coordination. On the islands it is about policy implementation. That's what makes questions happen. Is it even a happy analogy? If it is not, will it help us to understand what "coordination" means? That is my question in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u59	In Brussels, it would be undesirable for VWS officials to carry out Dutch policy, which should then be said to be officials of a department: my Minister sees it quite differently. That is where the Permanent Representation sits in order to ensure that it is done in a coordinated manner, without losing ministerial responsibility in each of these areas. That was the only thing the comparison was about, but I have now made it explicit. So Mr Ganzevoort can forget about that comparison. With this I have also said what the intention is on the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u60	I thank the Minister for his reply. Then we forget about the comparison, but I am left with the question of exactly what coordination means. One of the questions in my contribution was whether the Minister would like to give his coordinating role a little more shine. This question has to do with the interfaces between the different domains. The Minister mentioned dental care, but I do not expect the Minister of the Interior to assume responsibility for dental care. But if the way in which supplementary insurance is organised by the Minister of VWS has an impact on people's purchasing power and therefore on SZW, then I expect coordination to be somewhat more than a staple through different plans. Then I expect the coordinating minister to bring the rulers together so that something will come that works for the people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u61	That's two different things. Whether Mr Ganzevoort finds the outcome attractive or whether people there find the outcome attractive, is verse two, but coordination cannot take shape in such a way that it is said that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not about it. Coordination must always mean that I feel responsible for getting it onto the right plate and that it is being treated in a serious way there. Even so, the portfolio-holding colleague can finally make a decision. Then that's cabinet policy. After all, there is a unity of government policy. Suppose the Court criticized that policy or questioned it. Then there may be a moment when I say: if you wish to discuss this further, I would appeal to the honourable Member. As far as I am concerned, this is an active role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u62	Do I understand correctly that, on the one hand, the cabinet says that the State representative is the outpost of the cabinet on the islands and, on the other hand, the Minister says that it is not intended that department officials outside the State representative should go to the island leaders on their own? May I conclude from these two points that the State representative is in fact a kind of channeling point or crystallization point where the departmental policy plans come together and that he communicates and consults with the island authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u63	I think that's a good summary. I would just like to mention the other extreme: it cannot be that the State representative reads in the newspaper what a liaison of a department has brought in. He shouldn't be surprised by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u64	That's good. Following on, I have a question about the naming of the National Representative. The Minister confirms that it is a two-way street and that there is a connection link, a liaison function, or whatever you want to call it. At the same time, the Minister says that you can make the comparison with the King's Commissioner, but that he is not in the name of the King's Commissioner, since "King's Commissioner" also has a certain one-sidedness...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u65	...shows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u66	Thank you, Mr President, for the supplement. The proposal to rename the office in Commissioner Caribbean Netherlands clearly removes the unilaterality of the naming of the State representative. Some sort of connection is being made with the position of the King's commissioner. Precisely by not mentioning the King but speaking about the "Commissioner Caribbean Netherlands" you avoid giving the wrong impression because you call the King. My question is again: has the Minister not answered what the Minister thinks about the name "Commissioner Caribbean Netherlands"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u67	Now that you're so keen on the question, I'd like to answer it as well. I think that is precisely the misunderstanding that he would be the ambassador to the Caribbean Netherlands in The Hague. Of course it isn't. It is indeed an official appointed by the Minister of BZK, who has the task of ensuring that the state policy is conducted properly on the islands, and that is what you will always see in practice, knowing the situation there constantly will be active in The Hague to lobby, or rather to draw attention to matters that need to be taken up in the Caribbean Netherlands. The alternative naming might give rise to new misunderstandings. Oh, what's in a name?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u68	I understand that the State representative has no power of perseverance. So what's changed? The National Representative always had the role of coordinator locally and the Minister of BZK had the task of coordination here in the Netherlands. What has been strengthened about your mandate and what has been strengthened about the mandate of the National Representative? What changed after the Spies report? It all stayed the same, didn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u69	That was that blackness in The Hague that I was just trying to fight with some Caribbean images. This is a purely legal point of view. Of course, each of the ministers remains formally responsible for her or his own portfolio. What has changed is the way it works. The liaisons of the departments are at the table with the National Representative at the office of the RCN. They discuss their activities with each other and ensure that they are coordinated. That, of course, requires a certain amount of wisdom. A U.S. liaison could still say, "I have nothing to do with you all, my minister wants this," but the arrangements are not to do that. It is not in constitutional responsibilities but in working arrangements made to prevent people from going crazy on the spot because a very secluded situation would arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u70	I understand what you're saying, but nothing has changed. That's why they had to sit at the table with the State Representative, isn't it? What's changed now? It is a matter of good will, wisdom and cooperation. Is that it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u71	Good will, wisdom and cooperation: I don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u72	And that wasn't the case before that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u73	That wasn't always ideal for that. A number of speakers, taking back to that period, have mentioned examples of breeding that was experienced by the people on the islands. After such a robust transition as 10-10-10, where everyone from the departments tries to do the best, that can happen. I don't think it's really reproachable, but the situation that arose was that people said: we can't work here with that small government if those departments work side by side. Two years ago, we did indeed do that little evaluation, and on that basis we changed the way we worked. After the Spies Committee, we have focused on this. I've been expecting good things from that. And then something's gonna go wrong, but I think there's a good deal going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u74	I'm trying to distinguish it by two points. First of all, we have the State representative, who wants to have a little less dutylessness and a little more coordination space. It is a good development that a kind of construction has been chosen with the state service and liaisons on the islands of other ministries à la PV of the European Union. That is a start of coordination, but it is still information and there is little steering space for the State representative. That's the problem he raised himself. We should talk about this first. In addition, there is the question of what exactly is the coordinating role and responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That role does not really exist, because we said on 10-10-10 that it is part of the Netherlands and that all ministries themselves are responsible. For this reason, your predecessors have not accepted any coordinating responsibility. You did, but not on the basis of a decision by the Council of Ministers. At least I am not aware of that decision. This raises the question: should we not turn to your responsibility or that of your successor and ensure that there is something more, including in terms of competence, coordination structure, à la the big city policy as we used to know it with an extracompatible state and a clear power of the Minister to say to colleagues: that is not how we are going to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u75	Mr De Graaf spoke about a future situation. My advice would be to carefully consider the consequences of such a shift of powers. There must be clear responsibility to the Chambers. Someone's going over it. One of the ministers in the cabinet must ultimately be the one to talk about it. At the moment, when it comes to social affairs, the Minister or Secretary of State for Social Affairs is the one responsible and not the Minister of State. If you put that little tooth in the direction of the coordinating minister for Kingdom relations in terms of powers, that does not give colleagues in the cabinet the opportunity to take a step backwards and say: listen, then you should be with BZK. I have already referred in writing to the budget increase that has taken place in recent years. The mechanics underneath it may be undesirable, but that is verse two, I think it is desirable that a ruler on the spot sees that the coral reefs on Bonaire are not doing well enough and looks at what he can do on his budget to make it better there. The fact that each of those leaders feels responsible for that policy area there ultimately benefits those islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u76	That sounds a bit like more money is being spent when they all have their own pot, regardless of how you feel about it. I am thinking of Dutch experience, not only with the major cities policy, but also with the Minister for Youth and Family, who was responsible in the cabinet of which you were also a member. There, too, were measures and policy elements which were the responsibility of other ministers but also of Minister Rouvoet. That worked in the Netherlands, as it also worked in the big city policy, at least, that is my experience in the time of my ministry. This means that there is no single minister responsible, but there is an additional responsibility for the coordinating minister in a number of areas. If this is possible in the Netherlands, why couldn't it be done in the Caribbean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u77	I do not want to make a historical assessment of it, but I believe that both officials have been abolished the time after that. Both the Minister for Youth and Family and the Minister for Urban Policy did not return to the cabinet afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u78	For its historical correctness, there have been three rounds of major cities policy with three consecutive ministers responsible. If I bring Mr. Pechtold, even four.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u79	Yeah, you always have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u80	Let me get this straight. As I understand the discussion so far, neither the mandate of the State representative nor the mandate of the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been strengthened. That's what stayed the same. However, we have now made better agreements to work together. Am I okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u81	Yes, there was just a more extensive summary, with wisdom and alignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u82	Yeah, I got it about right. I have one more question. I have asked whether the French model has been looked at, where a prefect on behalf of the government has far-reaching powers on the islands. Did you get a look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u83	Yeah, it's been looked at, and that thought's been rejected. There appears to be a need for the islands to be included in Mr Van Eijk's contribution, so that the idea of subsidiarity can be taken into account as much as possible. So don't go out from The Hague towers and arrange things that need to be arranged on the spot. The French model is very vertical. There is a more or less mandatory French language and the French gendarmes determine the course of action. That's not the choice the government is going to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u84	I want to get on this. In my speech I mentioned the recommendations of Mr Marcel van Gastel's committee, which you probably know. You indicated that you would adopt the recommendations in March 2014. One of my questions is: what happened in those two years? The position of the State representative has just been discussed. Whether his name is X or Z, I find it less interesting; it is mainly about the structure in which he has acquired his position or in which it has become embedded. I read here that the implementation of the separation between policy and implementation would be a priority. The National Representative shall be given his mandate by the Cabinet on the basis of the multiannual policy programme. Can the Minister state the state of play after two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u85	I have just mentioned that as well. Multi-annual plans shall be made for each of the islands. These are determined by the Cabinet, of course in accordance with the governing bodies of the islands. This is the mandate on the basis of which the State representative can play his coordinating role. He may appeal to other departments and their staff and say: you may or may not agree, but it is part of the established multiannual plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u86	I have one more question in the extension of this. He is also responsible for the shared service center government service. Has that really come off the ground yet? Or is that gonna happen? How are we doing with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u87	That's gotten off the ground. My sg has been travelling extensively and has organized all this extensively on the spot, together with the National Representative. So we took it very seriously. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to focus briefly on administrative power and integrity. In addition, you have to distinguish between the different islands. That is what the speakers have done. It's very small islands. Mr Vreeman has just said that the total number of inhabitants is the size of Tilburg-East. 1,500 or 5,000 inhabitants; these are very small numbers. Bonaire isn't very big either. Indeed, the administrative power is not always the same. It's looking for people who pull the cart. In fact, I think that has worked very well on Bonaire. I went to Bonaire recently. When he was here three weeks ago, I spoke extensively with Elvis Tjin Asjoe, the one who formed the new college there, I think I can say. I've spoken to all the delegates and the authorities there. I feel that they intend to cooperate with the Netherlands in good harmony and in a positive and enthusiastic way in the coming years to make it beautiful. Mr De Graaf asked for one of my ambitions. I'm not going to name them all, but one of my ambitions is to make it visible in the coming years. The college there is positive and says: let us not linger in all discussions, but let us try to realize some things for people. I want them to think in a year's time: you see, that's a good approach, that works. I think that we should all intend to tackle this properly, I say to myself and to other departments. At Statia we recently saw that things were not going well with the board. That happens with a Dutch municipal board, by the way. So it's no shame, but it may be that you need to support the board for a while. In the meantime, that period is over again and there is a responsibility of its own again. Let me move on to the third point, which has raised a great deal of discussion, namely the question of the social situation in the Caribbean Netherlands. Mr Ten Hoeve, Mrs Meijer, Mr Ganzevoort and others I think almost everyone talked about this. Mr Van Kappen also spoke about it. Until recently, Cabinets have always refused to define a social minimum. We'll do it now. That was also the opinion of the Spies Committee. Secretary of State Klijnsma has been to the Caribbean Netherlands twice. She has seen the situation on the spot and has decided that she wants to do so. What is now stated in the government's policy response is the intention to link a social minimum to the minimum wage and there to increase the under stand, i.e. assistance, in steps towards it. These are still general terms, which still have to be filled in. It is Mr Klijnsma's policy responsibility to do so. She'll do that this year. Then it becomes explicit and then it becomes known to the Chambers. Then you can talk to her about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u88	I am afraid there is a bit of blurring language on this point. The term "social minimum" has a certain meaning and a certain load in the Netherlands. The way it is presented in the cabinet response is a completely different one. This is about what you need to maintain your existence. That is what is possible within the economic framework. That's another way of reasoning. A completely different system is proposed. Why did the government choose not to take seriously the system of maintenance of existence, but rather to opt for a system whereby we consider what is economically possible for a minimum wage and then what is derived from it is the social minimum, as it is called? Why the whole other system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u89	The Secretary of State has made the choice for linking to the minimum wage, also because it is important to have a certain distance between the under stand and the minimum wage. It is also important to ensure, in the context of local islands, that the relationships are not too distorted. Local conditions are also taken into account. She will fill that in more detail and then you can discuss it with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u90	Local conditions are not only economic in nature in the broad sense of the word. The local conditions are: large-scale poverty. The government itself has admitted that. How can the government say in this situation that we are introducing a social minimum, but we are not referring to poverty, we are referring to what can be economically supported by society as a whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u91	I honestly do not remember the text 'what can be carried economically', which is why I do not respond explicitly to it. In the end, it's a benefit. It's gonna have to be carried by the island. The fight against poverty is a completely different matter. We have also discussed this much more extensively in our policy response. For this, it is of course important that the economy grows. I would like to talk in detail about agriculture and other aspects of growth. The economy is growing far too little. There are far too few possibilities to be exploited. I had extensive conversations with young entrepreneurs at Bonaire last week. I've had those conversations on Saba and Statia before. It must, of course, come from generating more prosperity. The problems are not only with people who have to live off the under stand, but also often with young mothers who have been abandoned by the fathers of their children. They're not even at the minimum wage, but maybe something up there. But they have to raise different children and can only make ends meet with difficulty. I'll put it mildly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u92	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u93	I'm gonna try one more time. This minister is really going around the question. The question is, how do you set the social minimum?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u94	That is a question for the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. I have just said that she is linking that to a minimum wage. How it is going to do this is going to determine and communicate to the Chamber this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u95	Thank you. The Minister had already said that, but the question is this. The choice of the social minimum, I assume, is the government policy and not just the policy of the Secretary of State, not to relate to what is necessary for the maintenance of existence, which is the starting point in the Dutch order, is a completely different one. It is now being chosen to link the social minimum to economic development. The letter sent to us by the Minister states quite literally that it is conditional. I assume he knows those words. That's a completely different system. Then the term "social minimum" is a misleading... no, let's not use that word... a clouding term, using the same term for a very different way of thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u96	The understand is now $200. If it is linked to the minimum wage, it will increase significantly and perhaps more than double. It ultimately depends on the level at which the Secretary of State makes the link. It's a big leap forward. You have to do this with a certain degree of graduality, so as not to disrupt the situation on the ground. I can understand that, too. But once again, you can discuss the details with the Secretary of State on occasion. I think it is a good development and I am glad that the Secretary of State is doing so. This didn't happen under previous cabinets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u97	Let me pick up Mr. Ganzevoort's thread. In my contribution, I gave a detailed account of Mrs Klijnsma's response to the Nibud study, which stated that both benefits and benefits were below the poverty line. Her answer was: she could not increase it, because that exceeded the economic capacity of the islands. If the economic strength of the islands is the starting point, you do not have to do any research into the minimum subsistence level. In that case, the economic capacity of the islands seems to determine the level of the benefit. Surely it cannot be true that in a country like the Netherlands you accept that part of the population lives deliberately and knowingly below the poverty line within the Dutch state system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u98	In a government of VVD, PVV and CDA that was absolutely accepted. The Secretary of State has now dragged it away from the gates of hell. I find it difficult to put Mr Van Kappen to that criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u99	I'm not criticizing, I'm calling facts. The Secretary of State said at that time that it could not increase the benefits, because that exceeded the economic capacity of the islands. That's what I'm exposing. That can't be the starting point, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u100	Without the Labour Party in the government the VVD had continued the line where there was no social minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u101	That's an assumption. You don't know if this would have been the case. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers it an odd starting point to take economic strength as a measuring point for the social minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u102	I'll write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u103	It is then up to me to talk to this minister about the minimum wage or the level of under standing. The Minister says fine words that the Secretary of State is going to do something in the long term; moreover, I asked in my contribution not to use words such as 'in the long term', 'in reality' or the like. When do these people get to eat at the end of the month? That's the point. The Minister himself says that, in the long term, one must grow to a part of the statutory minimum wage, which is now USD 827 per month. If you have to grow there from the under stand of $200 every two weeks, people are still not just poor, but poor, living well below the poverty line. What acceleration is the Minister going to apply?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u104	The good news is that there is a change in the situation that the under stand is a quarter of the statutory minimum wage. The Secretary of State will present a proposal this year on the steps she will take to achieve this goal. That sounds like good news to me. That's all I can share with the Chamber right now. It is ultimately the responsibility of SZW's colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u105	I understand the Minister is moving this matter to another department. This is generally a problem: this minister does not have control over all departments. That is also one of the problems in the discussion. I therefore have only one comment to make on this, and I hope that the Minister will take it with him. If you take the concept of "social minimum" in the sense we attach to it in the Netherlands, it is not a matter of saying that we relate the social minimum to the minimum wage. It is rather reasonable to relate the minimum wage to the established social minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u106	However, in the Caribbean Netherlands there is a minimum wage and no social minimum, which is why the order is as it is. I understand Mr Ten Hoeve's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u107	The Minister said earlier that if we raise the social minimum too quickly, this will lead to disruption and, above all, we must do it carefully. This surprises me greatly. At the moment there is great disruption and poverty on the islands. I would like to ask the question one more time, in addition to asking myself why the Minister is talking about the problem in such a way, because I think there is a great deal of haste to resolve this together. Why is not the system we use in the Netherlands used on the islands as well? I still haven't heard a good motivation for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u108	It is indeed the same question and therefore the same answer follows. So far, the social minimum has not been defined. This is now going to be done by Secretary of State Klijnsma. The under stand will be linked to it. The people who have to live on it will be significantly improved. I think that is a great step forward. However, we are not there yet. We're not ready and we can't just have it from the benefits. I have just stressed that fortunately, the number of people with benefits is not that high. This has already been emphasised by Mr Ganzevoort. However, there are also people who do live on an income, but who cannot get their shopping cart full at the end of the week. There will need to be more economic growth and people will need to find good jobs. We will have to ensure that measures are taken. In the letter, some have been mentioned, such as lowering employers' contributions, thereby creating more room to raise wages. We will have to ensure in many ways that the cost of living is better for people to bear. And while I am looking at Mrs Teunissen, this can also be done by addressing the issue of agriculture. Mr Vreeman also expressed his surprise at this. The livelihood is partly expensive because people in the supermarket buy products that have flown twice across the ocean. If agriculture were to be developed in a professional and modern way, this would greatly affect the cost of living. One of the reasons why this does not happen is that it is an infected industry. People have the feeling that agriculture is something for poor slobs, and if you want a career, you need to get into an office as soon as possible. I also spoke to the island administration about this last week in order to ensure that agriculture is sexy and that agriculture is modern and interesting. The Agricultural University of Wageningen and other universities can of course make a major contribution to this. They used to be fertile islands, too. During my last visit to Sint-Eustatius I visited a farm where the products are almost transported from the country to the sign. This greatly reduces the cost of living and makes it more viable for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u109	I note that the Minister clearly does not want to assess the social minimum cost of living in a logical way and does not want to tell us exactly what the cost of living is for the inhabitants of the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u110	I'm not going to make that statement. I just emphasised that the cost of living, the cost of living, has to do with two things. First of all, we have just talked about income, and the introduction of an increased level of support will contribute to this. Secondly, reducing costs. There is still a lot to be done for this. Mrs Teunissen's plea for modern agriculture can make a great contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u111	The Minister shows that everything is related to everything. That is understandable, but it does not help us much. Moreover, we are not discussing in the Netherlands the way he is doing it now. In the Netherlands, we do not say that the minimum standard of living will depend on how well things are going with the Netherlands. In my contribution I asked for an objectification of standards. We have been talking about this for about eight years now. We cannot allow this to continue. The cabinet response shows that there will be a variety of paths, but the population there is waiting for benchmarks, for standards, for objectification. Why don't we try doing it along that line? I've already said there's a bunch of literature on minimum subsistence and livelihood. We're not making that up here. The economy has been working on this for 40 years. Why does the Minister not ask the CBS, in conjunction with the planning agencies, for an opinion on this? We have excellent planning agencies in the Netherlands, an excellent CBS, who can put that objectification in the standards and who can share those benchmarks with us. That really helps the debate three steps further! Can the Minister not take care of this, precisely in his capacity as a coordinating minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u112	In my capacity as a coordinating minister, I have ensured that for the first time the social minimum will be defined by a social affairs minister. It will present proposals to this effect this year. I would like to close the Caribbean Netherlands block on my general points. Let me take a look at the President to see if I can move on to a single point from the countries. I could, for example, go to the dispute settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u113	If you're gonna deal with the dispute settlement, I'm gonna make sure there's gonna be some interruptions. I think it is best that we suspend now and that you will bring the rest forward quickly and forcefully at a speedy pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u114	Mrs Strik has sent a message of obstruction for attending the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I couldn't report that earlier, but I'm doing it here. We are now continuing the debate on assessments in the context of political renewal and on kingdom relations in the broad sense. I call Mr Plasterk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u115	Mr. Chairman. I have come to a number of issues that do not concern the Caribbean Netherlands, but the other countries of the Kingdom in the Caribbean. I have a map over my desk hanging from the Caribbean part of the world. It is extremely useful, because you only then realize the context in which all those islands are located. The largest neighbouring country in the Kingdom is Venezuela. As is well known, there is a lot of instability there. We must therefore also consider what that means within the Kingdom. I coordinate a conversation we are having with the various departments, Bonaire, Aruba and Curaçao, so that we can map out whether we are prepared for situations that may arise. The other country to mention in that context is Cuba. Only when you have that map in front of you do you realize that there is a very large island that until recently was an island where an American could not come. That island has almost everything the Caribbean have to offer, namely wonderful beaches, beautiful culture, good food and nice people. Obama has been there now, and if Cuba opens up to American tourism, the Caribbean islands will have to do their best to continue attracting that same stream of visitors. So now is not the time to sit back. That could be a reason for the various islands in the Kingdom, but also outside, to try to cooperate with each other and perhaps eventually to cooperate with Cuba. This is about the context in which these countries go. At 10-10-10, it was found that in a number of areas the countries were not ready to take up this autonomous position, so that a joint plan of action was needed. The Committee on Progress has noted that most of these have now been implemented. For Curaçao they have actually been carried out, for Sint-Maarten that is not yet the case with police and prison. That is why we have had to extend that deadline once again. The Dutch share in this, also financially, has been delivered in full. So it is now up to Sint-Maarten to ensure that the contribution that was agreed at that time is made. That brings me to the dispute settlement. I would just like to outline the procedure. It was just stated by Mrs Teunissen that there were two dispute settlement arrangements in the House of Representatives. That's not true: there isn't one yet. I understand that the three other countries of the Kingdom have drawn up a plan which could perhaps be transformed into an initiative law, but that has not yet been done, let alone given in consultation with the Council of State. I received a request from the Lower House a year ago to come forward with a proposal. A step back: Article 12a of the Statute states that there is a dispute settlement. My predecessors and myself have tried to reach agreement on what that dispute settlement should be. But there was always a dispute about that and there is no dispute settlement to settle it. At some point the House of Representatives said: now it is nice. We ask you, Minister, either to come forward with a consensus proposal in the summer of 2016 on the basis of your discussions with the other countries, or to come forward with your own proposal. We will then see during the parliamentary debate whether and how we accept or amend this proposal and then accept it. The last one I did. The proposal has been in consultation, so everyone knows it. There is also a confidential part. That consultation closes next week. Then the National Council of Ministers has to look at what is being done with it, and then it goes to the Council of State for advice. Only then will the National Council of Ministers make a bill, which will be sent to the House of Representatives. I'm just painting it extensively, although it's all cut cake for this Chamber. This raises the question of what is the best way for the other countries to deal with the issues in which they wish to organise the dispute settlement differently from the National Council of Ministers. There are two roads that are open. There can indeed be an initiative law. That slows down enormously, because that has to be in consultation and separately to the Council of State. In addition, there are two different proposals in the Lower House. I have therefore suggested that, where these proposals differ in a few respects, you can also translate these differences into amendments. The latter seems to me, if you want to handle it smoothly, to be preferable, but that is up to the initiators and the House of Representatives. We've been asked what a dispute is and who determines it. In addition, Members would like to know which body should judge that dispute and to what extent that decision is taken. I think that the debate in the House of Representatives can be postponed, and input can be provided by the representatives of the countries. After treatment in the Lower House it can then be discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u116	This is the procedurally correct answer. I have also said that it is not a good thing to anticipate the parliamentary debate now, even if it is only because we are not going to discuss a legislative proposal here until it has been tabled in the House of Representatives, amended and so on. The question is, however, how does the Minister assess that he has come up with a proposal which, of course, we have seen through consultation and which, in our view, is quite different from the consensus reached by the IPKO and which he knows there are criteria that will play a role here. How do you judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u117	This invites me to say something about the role of IPKO in the legislative process. We can look at the Constitution, but there is nothing about that role. Strictly speaking, the IPKO is a group of parliamentarians who occasionally come together and then exchange views. If they decide anything, it is in a state-law sense a mutual statement to focus on that line in their own parliament. There too, there is no mandate and I do not believe that all political parties from Lower House and Upper House are represented in it. I am not crazy: it is good to know what the members of the IPKO have discussed there, but the IPKO is not the parliament of the Kingdom. Here and there there were reports that the government only needed to sign, but that is not how legislation works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u118	This evening we do not catch the Minister with procedural inaccuracies or constitutional errors. That's very nice, but it wasn't the thought behind my question. The IPKO is a little more than individual MEPs meeting. It is parliamentary delegations who speak to each other. Those parliamentary delegations discussed with each other the frameworks within which they can find each other, because governments could not. Without going through the details, we said: these points should be in it. We now note that there is a proposal on the table which is quite different from that. From the delegation involved from this Chamber, I would ask the Minister about his assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u119	Mr Ganzevoort now asks me in the First Chamber for an assessment of the treatment in the Second Chamber. That would not be entirely political and I think it is a complicated question. I would like to defend the substance of this proposal. Let me say one thing about it in substance. Mr Van Kappen also asked for this. The IPKO's proposal suggests that the outcome of the dispute settlement would be an opinion on political-administrative issues.................................................................................................................................................................................................. I have discussed this exhaustively with the governments of the other countries, and it appeared to me that this distinction will be very difficult to make in practice. For example, I have looked at the two disputes that have occurred in the past period. There was a dispute with Aruba about whether the budget was in danger of getting too far out of balance and there was a dispute with Saint Martin about integrity. Those countries found that legal disputes. They felt that we wrongly invoked Rule 43 (2) and that there was no question of a Kingdom matter. This type of dispute can only be assessed if you are fully involved in the substantive issue. Is that budget in the danger zone or not? Is there or is there no structural integrity problem on Saint Martin? At that time, I asked someone from the IPKO to give an example of a strictly legal issue. Then came the example of it, to be honest, it happened once that the President of the National Council of Ministers did not allow further consultations. Is that a mistake? Yes, that is indeed a mistake, and that is also strictly legal. But I can still make that assessment on my vest. However, I fear that the interesting issues on which there are real disputes will always be one to say that it is an administrative issue and the other will say that there is also an important legal side to it. I am afraid that distinction cannot be made in practice. The follow-up question then is: who decides whether something is a legal issue? I know exactly how that works. Suppose you submit something to the dispute settlement body, regardless of who that is. You say you may settle this dispute, and if you say it is a legal matter, then your decision is final, and otherwise it is not. That is, of course, a firm pressure for such a body to mention what they think of it as a legal issue. The important question is: who decides whether something is a legal issue? I see that this obvious difference in practice will not prove workable. That is why I have made another proposal, namely that it is in principle a decision, unless there are major reasons for the Kingdom's interest for the National Council of Ministers to depart from it. I would like to say this as a substantive response to the point made by several Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u120	The Minister has given a partial answer to my question. We have a dispute settlement in the CFT scheme, which contains binding and advisory elements. That dispute settlement already exists. Has it been considered to use that scheme as a model for a dispute settlement? I agree with the Minister: almost nothing is strictly legal. There is always a general administrative balance behind it. However, in the CFT dispute settlement, there is a binding ruling on the legal aspects, and there is a heavy opinion on administrative considerations and political considerations. That arrangement exists. Did the Minister actually look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u121	Yes, we have looked at that, but the National Council of Ministers ultimately believes that it should be a very important advice. I think that advice will always be followed in practice. To be honest, I find it difficult to imagine that if the Council of State is the one in our proposal, but it could also be the Supreme Court in another proposal saying that it does not find a decision to be lawful at all, the State Council will say that it does not care. It must be a very heavy signal. However, when it comes to the deployment of Dutch troops or Dutch policemen or of very large sums, for example billions, from the Dutch budget, in fact, that is what this is about, the National Council of Ministers will eventually have to consider whether that very important advice should be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u122	I understand what the Minister is saying, but my point is that the CFT dispute settlement and the financial supervision of Aruba is already an existing arrangement. Those two elements are in there, though. Why did we then choose to accept in that scheme that there is a difference between a binding part and an advisory part?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u123	We have done so because you know at the CFT that the disputes will be confined to that which is subject to financial supervision. There may be a dispute over a particular opinion of the CFT and whether or not you should follow it. However, a dispute between a country in the Kingdom and the National Council of Ministers may concern very important matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u124	It is not my intention at all to discuss and debate a regulation which has not even been proposed. However, given the answer given by the Minister, I would like to ask another question. If, in the Minister's view, the question of legality is virtually indistinguishable from the question of efficiency and that there is always, in fact, an efficiency side and a policy administration side to a question, then you can also ask yourself what is the objection to opting for the enhanced crown appeal, because that possibility of derogation has always been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u125	Finally, you come to a discussion on Article 120 of the Constitution. This may also be the subject of different views. For 98% of the Dutch, namely for the Netherlands, it is true that if the legislator has decided what to do, that is to say the Lower House and the Upper House, there is no body that can check the decision against anything else and possibly reject it, other than through international law. In fact, you would create that for the other countries in the Kingdom. That's the underlying discussion. I see that I have now triggered Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u126	It is not excluded that legislation can be assessed under the Staff Regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u127	That's not out of the question. If the Second and the First Chamber decide to do something, they will have to consider whether it is in accordance with the Staff Regulations. If they have done so and a countersign is granted, it becomes a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u128	I believe that, according to the Constitution, a judicial law can be assessed against the Statute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u129	It could be. Mr De Graaf makes such a triumphant face, that I tend to think that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u130	Mr De Graaf, briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u131	Let me say that at least there have been judges who have done this. It is still a discussion whether the final judgment of the Supreme Court was correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u132	It's on the record. Thank you for this addition. This brings me to the other points raised by Members. When I was just reading through my papers at the pizza, I realized that many of these points have already been interrupted. So I will try to keep up the momentum, but to do justice to all the points. Mrs Van Bijsterveld and others asked about the legislative restraint and whether it is now over. It seems obvious that it is not over. On the contrary, the conclusion of this evaluation is that it is wise to proceed with it. That seems absolutely necessary to me. Mr. De Graaf asked whether you shouldn't have that laid down in the law. I'd like to keep it at an attitude. I would also like to confront the legislator from time to time. I shall now turn to some of the other questions raised by Members of Parliament, where I thought that the limit of legislative restraint would come into sight. I would not like to judge, but in general I would like to insist that we commit ourselves to the mast in order to stop the lure to continue to regulate things for other countries and islands. As a starting point, I choose to regulate as much locally as possible and to do so only here if there is a real reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u133	I am pleased that the Minister wishes to continue the legislative restraint. I indicated in my speech that thinking in terms of legislative restraint is very strong in The Hague, when you should actually look at what is necessary on the islands. Is the Minister also prepared to interpret this legislative restraint that I have mentioned as a legislative necessity in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u134	Yeah, I'm willing to. I think there should also be differentiation in it. If it is obvious that a public body can do that very well itself, you can be more reluctant than if there is doubt as to whether the administrative power is there to do something. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also had a question about dualism. The cabinet, in consultation with the islands, will make proposals for improving the WolBES and will not pursue any structural change. As far as we are concerned, dualism remains the starting point. It also takes some time to find a good place. The islands themselves do not insist on a legal change of the administration, is my impression. Mrs Van Bijsterveld was still concerned about police and justice in Saint Martin. I have just said in general terms that the plan of action needs to be continued. V and J's colleague has the lead in this. He periodically conducts the Judicial Quadruple Meeting. He's got to be firm about it, to make sure there's enough movement in it. I share Mrs Van Bijsterveld's praise for the College of Financial Supervision, which I believe is doing an enormous amount of work. It is a very good formula to distance that kind of judgment from the Minister of the Interior. It is on the spot and has empathy for what is happening, but it is also strict when things need to be detected. It has a good balance in that. To be honest, I do not recall that the National Council of Ministers has ever departed from the CFT's advice, so much appreciation for the work it does. I just talked about the dispute settlement. I wrote down the word "guarantee function." Perhaps Mrs Van Bijsterveld can help me remember if I have anything to say about this. Maybe that was more of a reminder to myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u135	I had a question about the warranty function in relation to James Murray's case. We have been condemned by the European Court for violating human rights. The Court has said that we are responsible up to the level of the prisoner and that we should not be reactive but proactive. To what extent does this ruling affect the interpretation of Article 43, which states that we must intervene only if there is no longer any possibility of redress? What influence does that Murray ruling have on Article 43? I know that you have also answered questions about this in the House of Representatives, but I would like to hear your comments again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u136	It is not up to us to review that judgment of the Court here, but in principle the State is always called upon to act internationally. If the United Nations finds that the prison is not in order in Aruba, the State of the Netherlands is called upon to do so. In itself, that does not change the guarantee function in Article 43. We will then address the Government of Aruba with the statement that the United Nations has found that something is not in order and that action is being taken on it, but that does not necessarily mean that the National Council of Ministers is taking part in it. In a way, international law works in such a way that the State of the Netherlands is postal address, including for points of national responsibility. These may escalate so far that at some point there is a reason to enter through the guarantee function, but we try to stay away from that for as long as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u137	I understand that, but is it also the case, for example, that Aruba and Curaçao are also paying the fine imposed on us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u138	I don't know. I should check that out. To be honest, it seems reasonable to me, because it is a national responsibility, but I do not know how that actually went or should go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u139	Let me now turn to the effects of that ruling on the interpretation of Article 43. According to the European Court, the State of the Netherlands is responsible up to the level of the detainee and the State of the Netherlands should not act reactively but proactively. That is contrary to the second paragraph of Article 42, which states that we must wait until the countries have taken all the action they could take before we intervene. That affects that, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u140	I'm trying to tell you that. When the United Nations finds that something is in breach of human rights, they address the Kingdom and say that there is a problem there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u141	But this is the European Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u142	Well, it's an analogy. Let us take the example of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u143	The chairman is here; I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u144	Yeah, I got called in, so I started calling back. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Strictly speaking, it is possible for the European Court of Justice to appeal to the Kingdom of the Netherlands and say that we should do something with that ruling. In this case, this is a matter for the country X. Then we will address it from the Trêveszaal country X: put this in order, because you must comply with the judgment of the Court. This does not, strictly speaking, mean that it becomes a Kingdom case, as referred to in Article 43 (2), on which decisions are taken in the Trêveszaal. I'd still like to try to separate that. I just fell in that State will report on the payment of the fine in the Murray case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u145	Finally, Mr Van Kappen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u146	I understand what you're saying, but I still have one question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u147	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u148	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Can we also be held responsible by the European Court of Justice if someone complains about human rights violations caused by Isla's emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u149	Then the government of Curaçao can be contacted. He's gonna have to do that. Anyway, I don't want to fall into examples. That is the country that must implement it. It's the same thing all the time. Apart from the judgment of a European Court or anyone else, there may be a reason to note in the Trêveszaal that, in the context of guarantees of democracy, human rights or good governance, action should be taken in what would normally be a national task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u150	Finally, Mr Van Kappen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u151	Madam President. I shall continue with Mr Van Dijk's reply. He's said a lot of things I agree with, so I don't have to respond to that. He specifically mentioned the subject of young people and children. That must be one of the priorities, and I fully agree with that. It is also one of the three priorities we have set with the four countries of the Kingdom. Through the Van Laar motion, 3 million has been made available for structural purposes. We have developed a plan to give more emphasis to children's rights in the Kingdom, which is linked to poverty and the development of the economy. These are the three priorities that we have set ourselves: boosting the economy, combating poverty and children's rights. You can't solve them separately. It all works the same way. I shall move on to Mr Ganzevoort, who advocates the right to vote in the Caribbean Netherlands. I have already mentioned this in my introduction. He asked whether financial supervision should be continued in the future. The Cft ends in principle, according to the state law. I think it would be good to have a form of light touch monitoring instead. The Netherlands is also under the supervision of Europe. As long as we remain far from a 3% budget deficit, we do not have any pain, but only a few years ago it was a real issue. I think it would be good if one way or the other were to be kept on the pulse, also because it is in the interests of the countries in the Kingdom to continue to be eligible for the current tender of the Netherlands, that is to say for the very low interest rate on loans. This can only be done because the Netherlands is ultimately a guarantor. You can only do that if one way or another you can keep your finger on the wrist to see if things don't go terribly wrong. I can imagine that once this process is over, there might be a slight touch-over of supervision that might be too big a word "too" or "too" insanity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u152	I welcome that, but my question was also whether a shared vision is emerging with the countries. Or is the way that should be just a Dutch thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u153	I don't want to anticipate that very much. One will also have to face the downside. If you want to be eligible for the current registration, it is not unreasonable that some way or another there should be an overview of the finances. I am not just talking about the budget sec, because that is what I want to believe, but also about the loans that are made on public-private partnerships and that sometimes involve large sums of money. The CFT is looking at this, but we still need to keep an eye on it, so that there are no very large sums of money going into investments that can subsequently take out a country's finances. Mr. Ganzevoort also asked about the language; others also asked about it. Dutch is, of course, the language of the administration and of law in the Kingdom. Of course, I can see the trend. In St.Maarten, for example, the language is sometimes not even mastered by administrators anymore. Whether it's forever, I don't know, but I'd like to stick to it for as long as possible that Dutch is taught, also because many children go to college after secondary school, either in America or in the Netherlands. For that, they will have to be powerful in the language. I mentioned the broad school where I was. I asked children in the first class: bosnan ta papia Hulandes, in other words: do you speak Dutch? The answer was: yes, one, two, three! But that's about it. Those children are therefore four years old, but they have never really spoken Dutch. However, if they come from that school, they will go to the vwo where Dutch is often spoken in Dutch and then flow out to study in the Netherlands, they will have to be fluent in Dutch. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u154	My question was not so much about education, because in that I recognize this tension. My question was specifically on the basis of the evaluation report on judicial consensus laws and the discussion it sparked on whether the dominance of Dutch over the entire chain of law enforcement has any problematic effects and whether we should not even think about it. There was my pointe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u155	Maybe we should. I will also send that signal to my colleague from V and J. The laws are of course written in Dutch; that is a fact. But I also see that reality is developing. On Curaçao, people for whom Dutch is not the second or the third language, but sometimes even the fourth language, because they speak besides Papiaments, also Spanish and sometimes another language. We have talked extensively about the social minimum. A question has been asked about the basic package and the additional packages. This is the portfolio of my colleague from VWS, but I know that there is a lot in the basic package. Reportedly, there is not much interest in additional packages so far. In addition, a supplementary insurance, strictly speaking, is not a task of the Empire, but a private responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u156	Just a moment, Mr Ganzevoort, but then we will give the Minister the opportunity to go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u157	Certainly, but the Minister is now answering my specific questions. I promise I'll sit for a long time after that. My question with this supplementary insurance was not exactly what is in the basic package. But as a coordinating minister in that context, I have also asked the question. He answers the written questions on behalf of the VWS Minister with: we do not do supplementary insurance, we just do the basic package and this is not there, and we are not insurers. But doesn't the coordinating minister, in this case the Minister of the Interior, ask what that means for those who have no or too little income and can't just save themselves for dentistry and physical therapy? What does that mean for social affairs? Isn't that where the co-ordination task is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u158	I take on this task of coordination broadly, even wider than my predecessors. This means that I will ensure that the right questions are put to the right offices and that they are answered in serious terms. I understand that the basic package for dentistry and physiotherapy is the same as for the rest of the Netherlands; for the European part of the Netherlands. Apparently, there's not much interest in insuring up there. If Mr Ganzevoort has additional questions on this, the right way is to put them to the Minister holding the portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u159	We did. However, the point is not so much that there is no incentive for supplementary insurance. The point is that there are no additional insurance. This has to do with a bigger story, which belongs not only to the minister of VWS, who can hide behind it, but which is related to other things, such as income, purchasing power, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u160	I gave the answer to that. I come to Mrs Meijer's question. She asked about the frequently used phrase "a level of provision acceptable to the Netherlands." This is always referred to as something that needs to be assessed by policy area. In the beginning, I mentioned the example of education. An acceptable level of provision is that children receive free foundational education at the level with which they can move to vwo and higher education if they have the capacity to do so. For the department of OCW that happens there. If you look at the infrastructure, the roads on Bonaire are far from the same as the roads here in the Staten Quarter. This has to be improved, but it has not been said beforehand that it must all be done with exactly the same vowels and pavement as in the Netherlands. You have to assess that by policy area. We have just had a wide-ranging debate on social policy in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u161	Of course, I also specifically asked about that level of provision acceptable to the Netherlands. However, I am not just talking about roads, but also about youth work, youth work, community centers, old people's work, you name it. The Minister may say that I have to be with the various departments for this, but I would have liked the concept to be really understood so that we can find out that there is, for example, a community centre per so many young people, or an elderly worker per so many elderly people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u162	We do this in the multi-annual plans, in which we, together with the authorities of the islands, look at what is the most important provision for local conditions. We have just talked about differentiation: it can also be different from that in the Netherlands. For example, we've had a whole discussion about cleaning teeth. The same level of facilities proved insufficient because in the Netherlands all teeth were cleaned and not on Bonaire. That has led my colleague from VWS to temporarily raise the level of facilities, because otherwise too many people with unkempt teeth would be out there. You have to look at it on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u163	Can I assume that the islands will be consulted on what they need and that an agreement will be made on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u164	Yes, you can assume that. These are the multi-annual plans that are constantly being discussed, as well as their implementation. Mrs Meijer also spoke about Helmin Wheels. I remember him; strangely enough, I actually knew him quite well. Shortly after the election, he talked about a whole different direction. That was right when I took off. I had a really good connection with him. It's horrible that he was killed. Clarifying that murder is, of course, the top priority. Others asked for it. The Netherlands, through the RST, contributes to the local corps. The immediate offenders have been caught, but whoever's behind it is verse two. I also hope that this will be resolved. Mrs. Meijer asked about students returning. Maybe it's nice to tell you that last week I spoke at Bonaire with a dozen young people who are going to study in the Netherlands. They all come here in August and I invited them to come to coffee two months later to report their first experiences. It was a very interesting conversation. When I went through the question, it turned out, for example, that half of them couldn't ride a bike. You don't think about that at all, but on Bonaire there are no bikes. Cycling would also be dangerous. So people end up in a whole new environment. Many of them had never been to the Netherlands either. In that conversation I also made a round and asked if they'd like to go back. Many said in all honesty: well, I have lived here for twenty years now and look forward to seeing something different from the world than this island. They do not all have the determination to return. I think you need to be relaxed about that. Some will say at some point for private reasons or, hopefully, from idealism: I want to go back to my island. People also often return to another island. In that conversation, I discussed the possibility launched by the National Representative, namely to do an internship on another Caribbean island, such as Curaçao. It turned out to be a lot of enthusiasm for that. That was obviously far enough away from home to be interesting and still close enough to be attractive. You may hope that some of the students return to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. Anyway, not everyone does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u165	In the past, there has been some kind of incentive to return. If you went back to your island five years ago, your college debt would be reduced. I don't know if that's ever been evaluated, but aren't there any thoughts through this fiscal incentive to give young, talented, entrepreneurial people an incentive to return?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u166	I don't know. I do believe that in the pay-off scheme of the social loan system I don't know what it's called these days, your earning capacity is being taken into account. Because it's lower on the islands, you can get out of debt sooner. But I do not know such an incentive as Mr Vreeman calls it. I would be happy to discuss it at a next Kingdom Conference and see if there is any interest in it. That may be noted as permission; I will then report on it on occasion. I do not know whether the islands appreciate this, nor will I have to discuss it with my colleague from OCW. For the Isla refinery an offer was made to appoint people in the field of Hinderwetexpertise as well as for the refinery. That offer's been picked up. I visited Whiteman last week and he confirmed that it will be implemented this month. So these people will be appointed. Mrs Meijer's almost final question was about ENNIA. The supervision of the financial institutions of Curaçao and Sint-Maarten is at the central bank there, so at the CBCS. The Netherlands Bank has a role in the supervision of the Caribbean Netherlands, but is of course partly dependent on the CBCS. The Netherlands Bank has carried out an investigation into ENNIA which reveals concerns about supervision by the Central Bank of Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. They will be addressed to the National Council of Ministers. A letter will soon be discussed in the National Council of Ministers on this subject. If necessary, a legislative process will be used to ensure that the Netherlands Bank is no longer fully dependent on the CBCS for the information needed to carry out its supervision. So it's been taken seriously by the Treasury. Did I contact the board of directors at Bonaire? I have already answered that in my introduction: yes. I'm also in regular contact over the phone. Finally, I wrote that Mrs Meijer referred to confidence as a key word. I couldn't agree more. Mr Ten Hoeve cut a number of interesting issues, such as the language requirement. I have just responded to that. He also talked about the state councils. It is true that in the Council of State there is a place for a state council from Aruba, Saint Martin and Curaçao. After Mr Croes left, all three places are vacant. There is not very much activity of the countries in this area. The Council of State itself always gives advice on the calibre of the people one would like to have, but it does not now depend on that. I believe it is now really up to the countries to act actively. There is that possibility. That would be good, too. Then Aruba and the budget. I agreed with most of what Mr Ten Hoeve said until he said it was ridiculous that Aruba is not yet eligible for current registration. I don't entirely agree with that. The state debt is now, I believe, over 80%. I agree that there is now a good Minister of Finance, who is keen to balance the budget. The fact is that the debt has increased compared to last year. It's gonna have to go down. So there's got to be some sort of recovery. In any case, I follow the advice of the Caph, Mr Aruba financial supervision. If it finds that the recovery is such that it is time to make Aruba eligible for current registration, that is a serious advice for the National Council of Ministers. I think we agree that to some extent it is a chicken egg issue, because the budget is very out of balance. 15% of them go to interest charges. Instead of borrowing at market rates for Caribbean countries at market rates for the Netherlands, a large part of these interest charges would melt away and the budget would also be more quickly balanced. But recovery will have to be visible before the Netherlands can assume financial responsibility by saying that Aruba can be eligible for ongoing registration. I very much hope that this can happen in the short term, because I also see the benefits of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u167	If Aruba follows the guidelines of the College of Financial Supervision, this means that there is still a deficit in the budget in the first instance and so debt increases. That makes sense in itself. Is there any automation that Aruba is eligible for the loan if it meets the standards of the Financial Supervision College? Or should we be specifically pursuing this in order to get the government to be prepared to do so? Can we count on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u168	You can count on it. I don't know if it's going to be this cabinet anymore. It really depends on the moment when that occurs, but speaking for myself, I say that the advice of the Caph will weigh very heavily in the National Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u169	I understood that the current Aruba budget was already in line with the CFT guidelines. This does not mean that there is an immediate budget, but that we are trying to put the budget in order at the rate indicated by the CFT. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u170	No, it is really necessary for Caph to say: Aruba's budget and public debt have now been restored in such a way that it is reasonable for the country to be eligible for the Dutch current registration. The moment the Capht advises that, that will weigh heavily on the National Council of Ministers. Because I thought it was such a good example, I already mentioned agriculture and horticulture in my introduction. Mrs Teunissen spoke about this. It was a little fast, so I'd like to say the following. It is indeed a shame that so much sunshine and so much land is being used to do so little about agriculture. Mr Vreeman obviously had that image on his visit. My friends on the islands sometimes confide in me that they think it has to do with the plantations and the slavery past, which has kept the image that working on the land is for the poorest of the poor, so that it is not a future for your child. That's why people wouldn't find it interesting at all. Governments or the board of directors on the islands should do a lot to make that attractive. We can also contribute to this from the Netherlands. I totally agree with that. Wherever we can, we will certainly do the same. That is not only good for the economy, but also, as I said earlier, for the cost of living. If you express everything in baskets of strawberries you buy from the Albert Heijn on Bonaire, which have flown in from the other side of the ocean, the livelihood becomes very expensive. But if you take the products of your own country, you can live cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u171	I told you something in my story about history. Portuguese history is linked to agriculture. The dominance in Portuguese retail has to do with their history. They became a vegetable farmer themselves and developed groceries. Apart from the slave history, you should include that history. There were farmers who came to work here from Madeira. You should see if you can't exploit that history path-dependently to develop new dimensions in agriculture and horticulture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u172	Mr Vreeman mentions path dependence as an economist. It could be. You just have to have that click that makes young people think, "Hey, I'm going to work on the land, 'cause that's a bright future. I already used the word "sexy." That's not enough. New techniques can also play a role in this. It's not like they're necessarily so much better, but that just gets a different picture. Often the picture is that it is hard work with a low income. That does not have to be the case at all. Mrs Teunissen tried, I believe, to draw battery batteries in this case. I would like to try not to make too much of a case of this. I didn't want to turn it into a you-bowl, but she's doing it herself. She called it legislative restraint. That's typically one of those examples where you can get in the way of yourself. From idealism you say on the one hand that you want legislative restraint. On the other hand you say from an equally good, other idealism: well, the way that goes with the donkeys on Stasia or with the goats on Bonaire is not good; we really should do something about that. In the end, that's always a trade-off. I admit that animal rights are sometimes considered differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u173	I made that point of legislative restraint in my contribution mainly because it concerns an evaluation. At the moment, there is a policy debate. In doing so, you also look back at whether legislative restraint works, how it works and whether it is desirable that we apply it to certain laws and not to other laws. I also asked about the animal welfare situation. As far as I know, very little or nothing is known about this when we look at statistics, for example. Mr Ester was just talking about the CBS and that it would be good if there were more figures, including on population formation and so on. There is virtually nothing known about animal welfare. We do hear sounds and we see images of donkeys being driven to death. Okay, I don't have to sum up all the animal suffering here. However, I think it would be a good idea to have a map of this situation. My underlying question to the Minister was whether he was prepared to take a look at the situation in the islands in terms of animal welfare and to what extent the protection regime differs from that in the Netherlands. That is the first question. In addition, I indicated in my contribution that there is currently no island regulation on animal welfare, while the islands do have the space to draw up rules. I would like to ask the Minister if he would ask the islands to consider making that island regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u174	If Mrs Teunissen agrees, I would like to pass that question on to my colleague. Today, that's Martijn van Dam. You wouldn't think so, but it's about this. Previously, it was Sharon Dijksma. I'll pass on that question. It's his wallet where the Caribbean Netherlands is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u175	Short, Mr. Chairman. Do I understand that the Minister cannot say anything at all, not even about whether he can inform the Chamber about the animal welfare situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u176	No, it's really up to the Secretary of State to do that. That's what's happened in the past. I remember questions in the Chamber about the donkey policy on Stasia. At that time they were attached to the Secretary of State of LNV. So that's happened before. Mrs Teunissen asked about the trust fund. That's the DCNA, the Dutch Caribbean Nature Alliance. I've been looking into that. The subsidy scheme ends on 31 December of this year. In 2015, the last grant was granted, as an advance for the year 2016. That remains to be evaluated. In anticipation, I cannot comment on the effectiveness of the scheme. That is the state of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u177	Very briefly again, Mr. Chairman. I didn't ask about effectiveness, but I asked when the evaluation would come and if it could still come for the rich budget. If they are effective, we may be able to extend the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u178	I should check that out. I mean, let me take the wish to the department. I can't see that now. I see some nodding in the public gallery, so it might work. Finally, we have already talked about diversification of the economy. I have already used the example of the film industry in Curaçao in my introduction. Of course, it would be wonderful if you could bring in a whole new branch of industry there, and also all of this time. Mr De Graaf made a speech in which I recognized a great deal. Of course, I would have expected nothing less from Mr De Graaf. Let me just pick out the points that need to be answered. To be honest, there was and is little support for the revision of the Statute. As far as I can see, it was not in the Lower House, not in the islands or the National Council of Ministers, nor is it advised by the Spies Committee. Two weeks ago, we discussed a change in the Staff Regulations in the House of Representatives. In addition, we had the somewhat unusual situation that there were representatives of the states of three countries in the Lower House. There were also one representative of the PvdA, one of the VVD and one of the SP. That's it. So the involvement was not very strong in this amendment, which ultimately concerns the Constitution of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u179	This small involvement of the Lower House is more than made up in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u180	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u181	The same applies to the quantity of parties and groups. How does the Minister know that there would be no incentive for an evaluation of the Statute, not to revise the structure, because we have just done so, but to see if bottlenecks can be removed and modernisation can take place? By the way, we have done this regularly with our other basic law, the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u182	Besides, we have the Tickets Act. I already know three laws which Mr De Graaf believes should be systematically evaluated. Each time I've said, let's see if that's really necessary. As far as the Statute is concerned, as you know, the people on the islands want a ferry between the different islands. I heard someone say, "You can't sail in a statute." So they have very different priorities. They'd rather have a ferry than have us redesign the Staff Regulations all over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u183	That's not very original of whoever said that. It's been taken a little bit. It's absolutely true. There are more important things in life, which doesn't mean you have to leave other things with it. In previous legislative projects I suggested, the Minister has said that his capacity is limited. This way you can extend it endlessly and always for you. Any minister could say the same. The question is whether, after more than 60 years, i.e. 62 years, it is not wise to evaluate the Statute as a whole in terms of its operation and the bottlenecks that occasionally occur, and to see if it can be improved in a more modern way, without questioning the structure of the Kingdom as we now know it. After all, we have made decisions on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u184	This is indeed a conversation we have had in other areas. My tendency is to look at the points where we actually run into it when it pinches. We have just talked about the guarantee function in Article 43 (2). Of course, that's always on the move. We have talked about the dispute settlement in Article 12a to be completed. I am now focusing primarily on this and not on evaluating the Staff Regulations. That's my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u185	The minister was very smooth. I appreciate that, of course. However, I have another question that I have already asked in the first term. I'd still like to put it to you. The question was about the conservation status. The Netherlands should report annually to the European Union on the conservation status of species and habitats. This does not include the conservation status of the Caribbean Netherlands. Nor can I find it in the nature policy plan of the Caribbean Netherlands. It reports annually whether the objectives of the Caribbean Netherlands policy plan are being met. However, is it also reported on the conservation status and, if not, can the conservation status be included in the report every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u186	Now Mrs Teunissen is asking me. Can I try to answer that in the second term? It'll be there soon, but maybe that'll give me the time window to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u187	Of course. I mentioned it once in my first term, but then I mentioned several things. So I'm gonna wait until the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u188	I'll do my best. Mr De Graaf and I have actually spoken quite extensively about Bonaire. The development of the economy is my main concern. I have a good impression of the board, in the sense that it wants to make this serious. I would hope that next year we will be able to make a great contribution to this. The evaluation and our letter contain a number of things, such as a consumer authority and ensuring that markets work better. I also discussed it with young entrepreneurs during my visit and tried to get an idea of what we could do. I think there's a lot of opportunities. Bonaire is larger than Aruba, with one sixth of the population. So you can develop a lot with respect for nature in a very sustainable and nature-friendly way. This should be the most beautiful place in the Netherlands, where everyone would love to go on vacation and where everyone would like to move after retirement instead of to Spain or Portugal. Again, with respect for the island of Bonaire and the culture and nature that is there, there can still be a lot there. But in the end it must be done by the entrepreneurs and I do not want to be the liberal here, and in doing so, the government must create the framework conditions. So there's still a lot left. I've been talking to people about it. I am thinking, for example, of the sea turtles laying their eggs there. If someone offered me the guarantee that I could witness such a nest of turtles crawling out of the egg, I would be willing to book a vacation there, if only to get up once four o'clock in the morning to see it. But I don't believe people know about that at all. So a lot can still happen, where you attract tourists who do not rage with a lot of noise on the promenade, but who are interested in the nature and culture of the island. So there's still a lot to go on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u189	The sea shields are actually Mrs Teunissen's terrain, so I will not go into them. Moreover, the Minister gave the impression that he himself wants a future as a pensionado and then thinks: well, I might want to live there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u190	It should be so that everyone would want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u191	I would say: rather not, because then it will indeed become a kind of white fungus to the original inhabitants of Bonaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u192	I think that's a very nasty expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u193	You know the expression and you know what it means? It's about the tourist peel of houses. I think you should be a little careful with that at Bonaire. But that's not the point I wanted to make. You have very interesting ideas about it in itself: ecologically sound and sustainable tourism. What do you think the government's job in that is to enter it? Would you rather see enough entrepreneurs on Bonaire than entrepreneurs here who can and want to exploit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u194	Well, that could be more. The entrepreneurial spirit is not very great but local government and the Netherlands can of course do something about it. In addition, you also have to deal with the chicken ovation. The hotel sector says we can build here, but there aren't enough planes landing. The aircraft sector says that we can only land here limited, because the airport should be developed and if there is an aircraft there will be insufficient hotel capacity for the people who then have to stay overnight. I've discussed that with the board of directors, too. It's something you have to pick up in its cohesion, and then you don't have to keep the chicken waiting for the egg or the other way around. As far as infrastructure, tourism and flight capacity are concerned, you must try to raise all this. I think there's a lot of the future in there. It is, after all, mainly an economy concentrated on tourism. As far as ambition is concerned, I would have made a list, but if I were to mention it now, I would run the risk of not mentioning something again, so let me not. In any case, I intend to do a lot of things in this beautiful area with the people there next year. Mr Nagel has contributed a great deal to the issue of pensions, which also makes sense from the perspective of 50PLUS. The RCN, therefore, the State of the Netherlands, is successor in law for the staff of the country of the Netherlands Antilles. These people were insured for their pension at APNA, the General Pension Fund Netherlands Antilles. The liabilities were transferred to the new Caribbean Netherlands Pension Fund (PCN) on 10 October 2010. Not all of the participants' in-service and off-service data are well accounted for. PCN informed the RCN of the bottlenecks and requested information. In early 2014, PCI made an overview of 130 files that were needed for this purpose. This is based on the identified bottlenecks in the APNA administration. Furthermore, this list has been supplemented by reports from participants about incorrect registration, such as the length of the service period following the provision of PCI's indicative pension statements in October 2012 and February 2013. On request, the Board of PCI stated that repair is possible on condition that the other participants are not affected by it. If RCN still pays the unpaid compulsory pension contributions, including interest, the missing pension rights, years of service or changed salaries can be processed and the omission in pension building can be restored. Final decision-making is scheduled for the summer. Then the calculations of PCI are ready. It is therefore expected that the information on the premium deductions by the country Netherlands Antilles is known. The final costs are then in the picture and then decisions can be taken at individual level at RCN. On the basis of the results of the file investigation and calculations, the State may be obliged to make an addition to the pension fund in order to restore individual pension rights. I imagine that, when that moment comes, I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u195	The report of the Committee on Human Rights states that the three countries concerned, including the Netherlands, have approved the report and that, on the basis of this final report, a final settlement has been made between APNA and PCI. This means that APNA can no longer be addressed and that the government automatically remains. Surely it can't be true that in all those schools in Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba and in all those companies that employ civil servants, the payroll records of the past few years have disappeared in this computer age? It can't be true that in the government, all the computer files are gone. How is it possible that the government for which you are responsible as a minister did collect the employee's pension contributions but did not pay them and apparently did not pay their own contributions, while PCI has been crying for years that it does not get the data out and will therefore make estimates? That's no way to work, is it? Now give us a very clear answer on these points!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u196	I can only reply to what I have just done, namely that around this summer the calculations of PCI are ready and we expect to have all the relevant information. I have added that, on the basis of the results of the file investigations, it may be that the State is obliged to do so, I do not run away from making an addition to the pension fund in order to restore individual pension rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u197	These data are no longer available, PCI writes that it has to make assessments together with employers and, moreover, employers have not paid contributions but have cashed them. There can only be an independent committee to investigate this, because this is a mess of the first order. This is just not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u198	There is a conversation between Pension Fund Caribbean Netherlands and the State. It seems to me that we should wait and see. If there is reason to add up to restore individual pension rights, it seems to me that it is reasonable for the State to do so, as I have already said. Of course, there's got to be some justification, somewhere. You can take that widely, reasonably and flexibly, but there must be some justification for a claim on pension rights. I can't change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u199	There are participants who have kept their pay slips for all this time. They can show that they paid, that they paid and what their pension rights are. There are also those who have not done so in the last 20 years. They're floating in the air. Surely it can't be true that all those computer files from all those schools of government are a waste of time? This has to be figured out. Why aren't these pension contributions paid out? They must have ended up somewhere in a greenhouse or in some pockets, so at the end of the year they say: 'Hey, we have money left, and that year in, year out?' This has to be figured out. That is not possible and I do not think the government should do so either, because it is party to this. That is why we need an independent committee. PCN's been working on this case for five years. We can't trust that. There's too much data missing. We believe that an independent committee should be set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u200	I just said that the conversation between the State and PCI is ongoing. I don't see any reason why the state shouldn't act in that. I have already said that the State will collapse to restore individual rights if the outcome of the file investigation is that the State is obliged to do so. Somewhere this will have to be based on information from the former employee, or on information from the former employer. You have to base it on something. I can imagine that this is not unnecessarily difficult, but there must be some basis for doing so. That's as far as I can go. That seems to me to be asking about it, too, to be honest. As soon as there's information, I'll inform the Chamber in full. I will continue with Mr Van Kappen. Many of his points have been discussed. I refer to the democratic deficit, the dispute settlement and the ruling of the European Court of Justice. In my introduction, I also said that we are taking the lead in Venezuela. I have responded to the French model and we have had discussions about social policy. A plan for the economy should come from Mr Camp of Economic Affairs. We have included a number of concrete action points in our policy response to the opinion of the Spies Committee. Nevertheless, the cabinet considers that the lead to develop a development plan for the island's economy lies not with the Dutch Minister of Economic Affairs, but with the board. From my coordinating role, I am and we are happy to remain involved. We will ensure that we support the island leaders as much as possible in the plans they make. I have a lot of faith in the people who are there now, so I have high hopes in that regard. In view of the clock, I will soon go on to Mr Ester. He asked for legislative restraint. I have already said that it will remain as far as I am concerned. We have talked about the social minimum. Medical-ethical issues would not be picked up in Caribbean Netherlands. In principle the Dutch laws apply there, so also the opening up of marriage to people of equal sex. I believe that the first marriage on Saba has been concluded, so that has certainly already happened in the Caribbean Netherlands. There it also happened faster than in the rest of the Kingdom. Mr Ester also asked about children's rights. In this respect he was served at his beck and call, because last year the House of Representatives adopted the Van Laar amendment, for which 3 million was made available. This has led to the Children's Rights Action Plan, for which a task force has been set up which has now been rolled out. In fact, therefore, we are late, but we are still implementing the motion that I believe Mr Ester tabled on this subject three years ago. We acted in his mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u201	I think I find this answer a little too easy. I wasn't interested in a draw at all. I was really concerned about the structural focus on children's rights in the BES islands. It wasn't just about money, it was much deeper. It was really about an integral vision of the problems of those children. It wasn't a question of finding 3 million somewhere and doing something with it. It was really about the broader story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u202	I refer to the Children's Rights Action Plan published by the Cabinet. I suggest you read that. There's a deep vision in it. Mr. Vreeman mentioned "a kaleidoscopic look." I know a lot about what he said. Sometimes the first impressions are the best when you look back on them. I have just mentioned the wonder at the fact that there is no more farming and horticulture on such a sun-drenched island. Mr Vreeman spoke about understanding culture and the distinction between the short term and the long term. I know what he said about gifts, too. Indeed, in the Netherlands, we quickly say that something should not cost more than €50 and that it is actually all bad. Drivers of islands sometimes say to me: you're here so short, stay another day, then we can go sailing, because you don't see how beautiful it really is here! Then as a Dutchman you are soon tempted to say first that you are busy, busy, busy and secondly to ask yourself whether you should accept it as it does not serve any policy purpose. Furthermore, you don't want to be too bound by gifts. So there is a difference in culture. That doesn't have to be angry at all, and it's not meant to be wrong at all. I know that for a fact. The idea of twinning with a city is fun. The public bodies are active at the VNG and are also coming to the annual UNG Congress. So they know the way. That might also be the place for other municipalities to address them and suggest doing something together. I can imagine that this is also interesting for municipalities in the Netherlands. I just said something about the brain drain. There is. However, I have made commitments in the area of return and scholarships. I would like to find out and come back to that on occasion. I think Mr Vreeman also does not want to affect people's freedom to go somewhere and live there. It would indeed be nice if there were enough people going back, because they are badly needed there. I totally agree with that. Mr Vreeman also spoke about the murder of Wiels. I speak to the people of the RST on every occasion I am there. They make a major contribution in cooperation with the local police. You're damn right you're hoping that this murder will be solved. Finally, I come to Mr Kok's points. I thought I'd discussed most of them. To be honest, I sense a slightly greater enthusiasm for the Kingdom than for the opponents on the other side. I appreciate that, though I might not be helping him to say that. It's true, though. I appreciate that. Moreover, in the Lower House there are also members of Mr Kok's party who speak with warmth about the Caribbean Netherlands and about the other countries in the Kingdom. They're committed to that, too. I thought I had answered the specific questions on his part. Otherwise, maybe I'll hear about it. I seem to have gone through my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u203	Then we have now reached the second term of office. Mr De Graaf has informed me that he unexpectedly has a different obligation. That's why he asked me if he could open a second term. I'm going to look around and see if they're okay with that. That seems to be the case. I give the floor to Mr de Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u204	Mr President, thank you for your kindness. I would also like to thank colleagues for their kindness, in view of the clock. The idea was to start at 8:00 p.m. with the second term. So I just have a few minutes left, but I will keep my contribution very short in the second term. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I congratulate him on that too, if only because the Minister does not only know his business in substance. His answers show a long-standing commitment to the Antillean islands. The minister doesn't appear to be alone with the head involved. We are in joyous anticipation of the ambitions. That list was, I thought, too long to mention here, but I suppose we will notice those ambitions in the years to come. I'm just gonna light up a few more points. I come to the principle of legislative restraint. I would have liked to have put that as a starting point in the law. I would even say that you can formulate it as a starting point for proper legislation for the Caribbean Netherlands. I think that the Minister's reluctance to act with legislative restraint has gone a little far. In general, the Minister tends to crawl away as soon as the words "legislation" and "evaluation of legislation" fall down, and that is a pity. I have one more point concerning the relationship with Dutch municipalities. Mr Vreeman has said a few things about this. I think his idea is a very good idea. We used to do that in Curaçao. I remember that my own congregation, Nijmegen, was involved. The same applies to Dordrecht, when Mr Bandell was mayor there. Other municipalities were also involved, perhaps also Tilburg. Projects were carried out jointly, especially in the atmosphere of old neighbourhoods on Curaçao. In fact, we could take such initiatives if municipalities were also prepared to adopt an island on that point. It would be nice if that could work. I think we have not yet said the last word about the National Representative. I don't want to do that myself right now. I know Mrs Van Bijsterveld will say something about it later. What she says about it, she will say on my behalf. Finally, I come to the Statute. The Minister and I think differently about the desirability of looking more generally at the functioning of the Statute. Especially where bottlenecks exist, we need to consider whether we cannot agree in a more modern, better and more balanced way, without compromising the structure of the Kingdom as we redefined it in 10-10. Since the Minister has made it clear that he does not feel that much about this, he does not want to do so in other legislative areas too. I feel obliged to table a motion on the matter. Now I am speaking on behalf of Mrs Van Bijsterveld, because we are tabling this motion together. It's signed by almost the entire room. I'd be happy to give this motion to the chairman. That concludes my contribution. The President shall: The following motion is proposed by members De Graaf, Van Bijsterveld, Ganzevoort, Ten Hoeve, Teunissen, Van Kappen, Meijer, Diederik van Dijk, Ester and Nagel: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Statute for the Kingdom has now entered into force more than 60 years ago;]] [[whereas, during this period, adjustments to new constellations have obviously taken place in the Staff Regulations, but there has been no evaluation of the significance and functioning of the Staff Regulations for the Kingdom and obvious bottlenecks have now been identified;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to assess the Staff Regulations on the desirability of removing bottlenecks, taking into account the significant changes which took place in 2010;]] [[calls on the Government to promote an evaluation of the Staff Regulations with a view to possible modernisation and to consult with the other countries within the Kingdom and the island authorities in the Caribbean Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u205	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I have stated in general terms that my group is in favour of the cabinet response. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. He has answered many questions in a positive way. Of course, we are very pleased with that. I would like to emphasise a number of things in this short second term. Furthermore, a few questions have not yet been answered. We are very pleased that the Minister wishes to continue the principle of legislative restraint for an indefinite period. He also promised to explain this principle in such a way that the starting point and the end point is not always the Dutch legislative machinery. I have also referred to the legislative need. It is important to think about the necessity and desirability of the islands. The Minister has spoken very eloquently about the office of State representative. He stressed the importance of this office as a link between the Empire and the islands. He was a little reluctant about the other proposals I made in this area. That is why I would like to make a motion on behalf of the spokesman for D66, Mr De Graaf. The President shall: The following motion is proposed by members Van Bijsterveld, Vreeman, De Graaf, Ganzevoort, Van Kappen, Diederik van Dijk, Nagel, Meijer, Ten Hoeve and Ester: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Having regard to the opinion of the ……]] [[that the WolBES introduces the office of State Representative;]] [[that an important function of this office is to form a link between public bodies on the one hand and the Empire on the other;]] [[that the naming of the office of State representative gives the impression that it represents only unilaterally the Empire on the islands;]] [[Whereas it is important that the dimension of the connection link is reflected in the naming and is also clarified in the legal terms of reference;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[propose to the next amendment of the WolBES to replace the naming of the office of the National Representative by Commissioner Caribbean Netherlands;]] [[clarify the terms of reference of the post in the WolBES in such a way that the two-sidedness of the post also appears explicitly;]] [[provide for adequate provision of this office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-Q]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u206	When it comes to differentiation, I can be brief. My group is very pleased that he has answered our question positively. I would like to ask the Minister to comment on the role of the multiannual programmes in which the wishes of the islands come together with the wishes of The Hague. What is the relationship between central and decentralised? I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the questions I have raised under the heading 'cooperation arrangement'. Without prejudging the evaluation of consensus-rich legislation, I would like to remind you that I have asked some questions about this. Perhaps the Minister would like to comment on that. He said that during the treatment he had written down the word "guarantee function." That's very nice. The CDA Group has indicated that it considers the guarantee function to be very important. We would have preferred the guarantee function not to be effective, but when it is at issue, the guarantee function should be provided. I believe that the Minister himself feels the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u207	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his response, which was swift and substantive. A range of themes came across. To be honest, I wasn't so busy with my retirement, but the Minister has put forward some attractive views, which I now have in my mind. On one point, I did not get a reaction, namely the possible role that the churches could play on these islands. I had to think about a book presentation I was ever at in 2010. There, Alexander Pechtold said in presenting a book by James Kennedy that he is a great supporter of the separation of church and state, but not of the separation of church and street. Churches and civil society organisations can mean a great deal in the fight against poverty and the fight against all kinds of social problems. It is also public policy to harness society's own strength, including family and social relationships. Is the Minister prepared to examine with the relevant authorities how the social capital of these churches, which are still very large and thriving on these islands, can be used in the fight against poverty, youth issues, prostitution, crime and so on? I hope the Minister will be able to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u208	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the many answers. It is good to see his involvement in this dossier and in the many files that are going on, an involvement that reflects the involvement of this Chamber. In fact, all the groups want to deal with this and sign in for speaking time which exceeds normal. That is because there are great things that we consider to be very important. The minister started by saying that he thought it was a bit dark and bleak in the atmosphere. Honestly, I thought that sometimes the lights went on today. I think it is valuable that a number of essential points are highlighted in our debates. I'll give you two. Firstly, the question of what is a coordinating role. There was clarity about this, namely that it is unclear. Secondly, on the social minimum. There, too, I saw clarity, namely that we have a problem there. In these coordinating tasks, the Minister makes a commitment when there is a question about study debts and how they can be raised in a proposal to the Kingdom Conference. However, he cannot make a commitment on the question of information on animal welfare regimes. He cannot make a commitment and say nothing about the effects of health insurance schemes on purchasing power. Maybe he can say something about reporting on the Habitats Directive, but he can give a comprehensive answer to questions about pension issues and make a commitment to inform and pay up. It'll be all right. It'll be all right. It'll be all right. How is it that this minister has a coordinating role and that he can fill in one time and speak on behalf of his colleagues and not on another occasion? This raises the question of what exactly we mean by this coordination. We may not be able to come out of that tonight, but that question does lend itself to further discussions. The second point is the social minimum. I'm not gonna say much about that. I think the points of view are clear. The Minister replied and was widely questioned and addressed by the Chamber. I'm filing a motion signed by 11 of the 12 spokesmen. The twelfth is still in consultation with his party mates across the street, but is sympathetic to it. The President shall: Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Van Kappen, Mr Van Bijsterveld, Mr De Graaf, Mr Meijer, Mr Vreeman, Mr Ester, Mr Teunissen, Mr Nagel, Mr Diederik van Dijk and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, everyone is entitled "to a standard of living high enough for the health and well-being of himself and his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and the necessary social services, as well as the right to provision in the event of unemployment, sickness, invalidity, the death of the spouse, old age or any other lack of means of subsistence arising as a result of circumstances independent of his will';]] [[noting that, according to Article 20 of the Dutch Constitution, the government bears responsibility for the security of life of the people and the Dutch land here, who cannot provide for the existence, should give a right to public assistance to be governed by the law;]] [[noting that, according to Article 1 of the Dutch Constitution, all persons residing in the Netherlands should be treated equally;]] [[having regard to Article 1 (2) of the Statute for the Kingdom of Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba,]] [[noting that the government has a social minimum for the European part of the Netherlands which sets the reference amounts for the necessary living, but does not set these reference amounts for Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba for the necessary living;]] [[Whereas this applies a not necessary and unconvincing differentiation between the European part of the Netherlands on the one hand and Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba on the other;]] [[Whereas it makes it difficult to discuss poverty policy in an objective manner;]] [[Whereas that is at issue in the matter of the obligation of care of the Dutch authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to set a social minimum for Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba on the basis of the reference amounts for the necessary living,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-R]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u209	The groups in this Chamber have very different views on many things. This will undoubtedly also be about the development of policies to combat poverty and so on. But the groups in this Chamber do not differ on the need to have an objective discussion on this issue. That's the point of this motion. Let me end up positive. Many intentions are similar in the debate. That is what we are tasting from this minister when he says 'I intend to do a great deal with the people in the coming year'. That's good. Vaguely but beautifully. We hope to see how this becomes concrete in the coming months. In terms of this sports summer, we will welcome this minister to every hurdle he takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u210	Mr. Chairman. This Minister is bent over an acceptable level of provision. I am referring in particular to the social area, the under standing and the AOV. He's screening that, now that the PvdA's in the government, at least something's happening. In fact, however, this Minister says that his colleague intends to come up with a plan this year which states how she intends, in the long term, to increase the under standing, step by step, to the minimum wage. That's just not enough for the SP. We do not want any vagueness. We do not want any references to colleagues. I want a minister who stands for all the Dutch and shows decisiveness in this. This situation is, of course, not new. I am grateful to the Spies Committee for the work, but this Minister also knew what the situation was like on the islands. Reference is made to colleagues. I think we should invite them to speak with us. In order to keep this issue high on the agenda, the SP wholeheartedly supports the Ganzevoort motion that has just been tabled. I also hear the Minister say the word'subsidiarity'. I do not really see how we are going to lay down as many responsibilities as possible with Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba. Are we really going to talk about their needs without us deciding what is going to happen? Are we talking to them instead of talking about them? What steps will the Minister take and when? Finally. I ask the Minister about the establishment of good training. That's what I talked about in my first term. What's he like about a hotel school, for example? I believe that many people in the islands can work in the tourism sector. Perhaps the Minister could pass on this question to the Minister for Education if necessary and perhaps we could issue fewer employment permits. That was 950 in 2015, and I have not yet heard the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u211	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I was pleasantly struck by the manner in which he knows how to ask questions in the Papiaments. I do not know whether I should draw the conclusion from this that he is fully in control of that language, I do not think so, but as a resident of the Downwind Islands I would be very grateful for what he can say in that regard. As a Member of the European Parliament of the Netherlands, so am I; it is a matter of identifying you with that. The answer shows that the Chamber and the Minister agree on many things. It also shows, as I see with Mr Ganzevoort, that there are not all the points to be dealt with by this Minister. On a number of points, he refers to colleagues. I can imagine that from his point of view, but it does lead to a loss of clarity in the role of coordinating minister. We have seen the reference to the Minister of Trade very clearly on the social minimum, on which the Chamber unanimously has a very clear opinion. The Minister does, however, explicitly refer the matter to his colleague from Social Affairs. The Chamber also has a unanimous opinion on the role of the National Representative. Motions have been tabled on these two unanimously; one by Mr Ganzevoort and the other by Mrs Van Bijsterveld. We are very much in agreement on this. As regards the role of the State representative, what Mr Van Kappen has just observed is that, with all the best intentions, nothing will change until we record it. The third motion tabled by Mr De Graaf concerns the Statute. I agree with the Minister that it is not very obvious at the moment to amend the Staff Regulations immediately. However, in my view it is true that the Statute is inadequate in a number of respects. It was built in the 1950s, in a totally different climate. It would be good to look at that. Mr De Graaf expressly stated: without questioning the structure of the Kingdom. In principle, I agree with that, but I would add that we will be able to restore the very clear lack that currently exists in the regulations of the Staff Regulations. The Kingdom needs Kingdom bodies. We have a Kingdom Government, but we are missing a Kingdom Parliament. As simple as you want to solve that, I think there is a need to do so. There are two other points on which I have put questions to the Minister, but which I do not think he has yet addressed. The first is the low-threshold legal aid on the islands, which is explicitly referred to by the Human Rights College and by the Ombudsman. I myself have received the clear message from the islands that this is missing. I would remind you once again that this situation has actually arisen because we have replaced old Antillean legislation with Dutch legislation. In ancient Antillean legislation, there was the possibility of business observation. That is legal assistance at a lower level, much more directly accessible and much more affordable than what we offer. The second point is the position of the common court. Its financing has been discussed by several members of this Chamber. I haven't heard from the Minister yet. It is, in my view, an extremely important point. How does the Minister intend to do something about that? This is not the way to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u212	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his answers. I would also like to thank all my fellow Members, who have shown a great deal of commitment, which has led to a very sustained and substantive debate. I regret that the Minister has been able to answer only a limited number of questions, because he believes that some of the policy areas addressed in this policy debate are not part of his portfolio, although he has a coordinating role. Maybe it's a good idea to invite some colleagues next time. I asked a few questions about animal welfare. Unfortunately, the Minister could not answer them. I would still ask the Minister to direct the questions I have asked to Secretary of State Van Dam. I intend to table a motion on this matter. Should the Minister promise that he will indeed pass on the questions, I will mention them in a moment, and I shall continue with the motion. It concerns the question of the state of animal welfare on Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Curaçao. I have also asked to identify the differences between protection regimes in the European part of the Netherlands and the Caribbean part of the Netherlands, with an impact. I would also like to respond to the question whether the government would like to ask the island authorities if they are considering an island animal welfare regulation. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Meijer, Mr Diederik van Dijk and Mr Ester proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Animal Law does not apply to Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba;]] [[whereas public bodies have autonomous regulatory powers in matters not regulated by the national legislator, but there are currently no island animal welfare regulations;]] [[Whereas good animal treatment represents a general interest;]] [[Whereas the legislative restraint decision should not lead to a wide range of animal protection regimes within the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and inform the Court of Justice of the differences between animal protection regimes in the European part of the Netherlands and the Caribbean part of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-S]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u213	Let me now turn to the conservation status of species and habitats. The Netherlands is obliged to report to the European Union on the conservation status, while Caribbean Netherlands is not. My group considers this to be unbalanced. I therefore asked the Minister whether the conservation status could be taken into account in the annual report. I'm very curious about the answers. Just to be sure, as an incentive, I shall also table a motion on that. If the Minister undertakes to do so, I shall also take this motion. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Article 7 of the Habitats Directive provides that the reporting obligation relating to the conservation status of species and habitats is only in force within the European Union, of which Caribbean Netherlands is not a member;]] [[Whereas the current Caribbean Netherlands Nature Policy Plan, in accordance with Article 2 of the Nature Management and Protection Law, sets out objectives for nature and the landscape to be achieved during the planning period;]] [[Whereas periodic reporting on the conservation status of species and habitats is essential for a sound nature policy;]] [[calls on the Government to report on the state of conservation in the Caribbean Netherlands in the annual reporting on the implementation of the Nature Policy Plan, with its associated clear objectives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-T]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u214	Finally. The Minister spoke enthusiastically about the commitment to agriculture and horticulture. My group would also like to point out that, of course, we are dealing with small-scale, sustainable and organic farming. This is in line with the island's insularity. We see that there is a need for this on the islands, but the Animal Party will of course never approve farming systems that are banned here in the Netherlands on the islands. Once again, I would like to ask the Minister whether, in his multiannual plans and in the talks with the islands on agricultural and horticultural policy, he would like to say that, of course, we are dealing with small-scale organic farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u215	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, we would like to ask the Minister to answer a question that has not been answered. Was the government aware of this issue? P.C.N. call? If so, since when has the government been aware that this was happening? The Minister's commitment that the State is going to pay up, thus guaranteeing, is a good recognition. We're happy for the duped. However, there is still a catch. The Minister says that we can very well imagine that it must be based on something. In the last five years, PCI has repeatedly asked employers to give an opinion. Employers cannot or do not wish to do so, and there is therefore no longer any further information to be expected. There are employees who have kept their pay slips, even in 15 years' time, and they can prove that. However, there are others who have not kept it. What should be done about cases where neither employees nor employers can provide the information? I do not know whether the Minister has an answer immediately and I can also imagine that he, in consultation with PCI, will inform our Chamber of this matter before Tuesday and preferably next Friday. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Year after year, money has been collected from the employees, money that has been deducted from the salary. Where'd that money go? If someone intuits that, shouldn't he notice it in the greenhouse or in his pocket? It's about a long time. Does the Minister agree with me that it is necessary to investigate those who have collected money but have not paid it, and that they should possibly be prosecuted? Money that is no longer traceable is called "eclipse" in plain Dutch. Measures must be taken against this type of fraud. How is it that the government itself has failed to fulfil its obligations for many years in many cases? We can imagine that if the Minister is prepared to write that letter, he will give us a further explanation on this last point. We are in favour of an independent investigation because the government itself is a party and has failed to do so. We are therefore tabling the next motion. The President shall: Mr Nagel, Mr Meijer, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Kok, Mr Ester and Mr Teunissen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for a number of years, both employers' and employees' pension contributions for a number of officials have not been administered and paid in the BES Islands before 10 October 2010, while employee contributions have been deducted from salaries;]] [[Whereas it has not been possible to obtain the right information in recent years;]] [[Whereas the authorities themselves are party to this;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent committee to report on the above at the shortest possible time but before 1 October 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-U]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u216	Once again, we welcome the recognition and commitment of the Minister that the injured will be compensated. The points I have just mentioned are still open. We would like an answer to this either tonight or by letter, in relation to the votes next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u217	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering our questions. After this debate, I realise that the role of coordinating minister is not an easy one. This has something to do with the way in which we organized ministerial responsibility in the Netherlands. I also realize that the minister got a little mad at me when I was ditching the social minimum, and that he was surprised that the VVD was behind it. We want clarity and honesty. I understand the Minister can't see all the consequences. The social minimum has to do with minimum wage, which in turn has to do with the competitiveness of business and has to do with all kinds of other things. However, as a coordinating minister, he could ask his colleague, who is concerned about this, to send us those answers. I can take a hit; I know he was a little angry with me, but that has been a lot of people. I have forgiven you, Minister. I have another question that has to do with improving the quality of local drivers. Capacity would be made available for support. Is it possible to give us a periodic overview of the support actually provided to the national government? We're very curious about that. One last simple question is about Venezuela. The Minister has indicated that he is talking about this with the countries and with a whole range of other bodies. I would like him to say something more about this, because Curaçao has no established refugee policy. I think the same applies to Aruba and Saint Martin. What about Bonaire? Does the Dutch refugee policy apply in its unchanged form?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u218	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the officials for answering our questions. We are looking back at an intensive debate with a full upper chamber, remarkably united in addition. The image itself is a bit mixed when we talk about 10-10-10. Some areas show clear progress, education and health, others much less, especially in the areas of social security and poverty reduction. We need objective standards to set the social minimum. This has been going on for eight years and the Minister has not made any substantial progress on this dossier. The debate with the Minister was somewhat disappointing on this point. It is a pity that the Minister does not accept our suggestion to ask the CBS and the three planning agencies to advise him on what fair, objective standards are when it comes to a social minimum. These agencies have a lot of experience with it and it's not a big job to do it. We wholeheartedly support the motion by Mr van GroenLinks on this point. If we do not proceed quickly now, we will find on 20-20-20 that we have not made any progress on this important dossier. This is because we are dealing here with the security of life of vulnerable groups. Furthermore, I have a point about the power of administration. We would like to challenge the Minister to come up with creative measures to interest a new generation of young islanders to increase governance on the island by seeking jobs there. If we manage to combine return migration, student debt relief and start-up accommodation in a creative and intelligent way, hopefully we can make a move. I asked another question about the professionalisation of data collection in the BES islands. That seems to be a very boring subject, but it is absolutely not, because it is also at the heart of our discussion: we simply lack the most simple figures on poverty, income and unemployment. We certainly don't have any trend data. It would be good for our debate if we did have that kind of data. Three years ago, we also established this in a debate with the Minister, where this issue was also raised. My group very much hopes that we will succeed in maintaining cordial administrative relations within the Kingdom. It's not always obvious. Above all, my group hopes that we can offer security and security to the youngest generation of islanders. Children do not have it easy in the Caribbean Netherlands. Their rights are often violated. Those children's rights are under pressure. Several parties and organisations are telling us this. We have seen that measures have been proposed, also through the active attitude of the minister in the multiannual programme. But the question is whether these measures are sufficient. In particular, there is a need for a structural and integrated approach and agenda. I would very much like to table the next motion on this. The President shall: Mr Ester, Mr Vreeman, Mr Meijer, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Van Kappen, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Van Bijsterveld, Mr De Graaf and Mr Teunissen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the report of UNICEF ("Kingdom children. Children's rights to the Dutch Caribbean) show that many children in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom grow up in unsafe and unhealthy conditions and thus fundamental children's rights are violated;]] [[whereas the report of the Spies Committee ("Five years connected. Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius, Saba and the European Netherlands) are deeply concerned about the vulnerable position of children on Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba;]] [[Whereas the opinion of the College of Human Rights ("Towards a human-lawly acceptable level of provision for the Caribbean Netherlands") strongly calls for continued investment in children's rights in the Caribbean Netherlands;]] [[Considering that measures to improve children's rights, including the establishment of a Task Force on Children's Rights and Domestic Violence, have been launched in the context of the Caribbean Netherlands Multiannual Programme;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the impact of these measures on the respect of children's rights, to report to the Court and, on the basis of the results achieved, to indicate whether a strengthened action programme is needed to improve children's rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-V]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u219	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. It is also quite unusual to feel that all the groups here are very committed to our islands, I might add. But on the other hand, it's kind of weird that you're all talking about three small villages like it's really big. I see the departments in front of me. Saba has 1,500 inhabitants. It's a small neighborhood in our neighborhood. The same applies to 4,500 inhabitants. In the new name of the National Representative is the interactive, but the complexity of how we organized it is actually incomprehensible. The transition costs, although never calculated, will be tremendously high. Of course, it's full of consultants: all people who really like to walk around there for a few months to figure something out. I call on our government to simplify everything very much. You should set up a kind of task force with a mandate, which simply communicates directly with the islands and also organises the back office itself, so that those people there don't have to do all that. If you look at the money we put there and compare it with a municipality like Tilburg, you can see that in the latter case it is about 900 million, while a quarter of it goes to 24,000 people. In Groningen, it amounts to almost a billion euros, one quarter of which goes to three villages on an island. Of course, that island has a whole infrastructure of an airport and a port, but still: how efficient are you actually doing, even in the interests of the residents? This is a cry of hearts. I don't think it's gonna be fixed, because that's not how it is with us. But an effort should nevertheless be made to achieve shorter lines, to increase operational strength and to create fewer studies, plans and consultancy, to put it mildly demagogic. We support the motion on the social minimum, because we want to know how to define it. Once we know that, the discussion really starts. Because if the social minimum proves to be higher than the minimum wage on the island, then we're going to talk about the whole wage building. What are the effects of this on employment, etcetera and so on? I think the method used is wrong, because it is not comparable to that used in the Netherlands. But there will be another discussion, once we have defined this, about how this relates to the minimum wage and the entire wage building in the Netherlands. Maybe we should raise the minimum wage. But if you don't, you're gonna have all kinds of economic effects. That discussion arises immediately after you have defined what it is in terms of viability. Mr De Graaf said that there was a need to find a link with the cities. That has a lot to do with simplification for me. At the level of a city or a robust village is much more comparable who your partner is. At Saint-Eustatius we heard that there was no head of personnel policy and no head of finance. You have to be able to fill that in pretty easily, don't you? On Saba they have a very good city secretary. He has been the head of a large department of the municipality of The Hague. He managed to persuade wife and kids to work there. So there came a very competent person from the city of The Hague. I would also like to say a few words about the loose perception of agriculture, which is apparently being fed after all. Could the Minister not come into contact with 'Wageningen' and with the stand organisations of our farmers and gardeners in order to define a project with each other to give them a new impetus? Finally, something about Bonaire and the culture of the presents. That prison and that tax office have some kind of iconic effect, which is important. Why can't we help with a pool, we're asked. That's what I'm wondering. Kids should be able to swim. Why don't you help by improving the port's infrastructure? You should think in dialogue with the island administration about things that balance the balance of the gift, in the sense that people say: we have always wanted that. We support the motion on the social minimum. We support the motion about changing the name, as a symbolism of more interaction. We support the motion on the children. We do not do that with the motion on pensions, because the Minister has been clear about this. Furthermore, we do not support the motion to review the Statute. The energy has to go to the operation and not to the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u220	Mr. Chairman. When I hear the previous speaker like that, it seems as if the stubborn reality is very easily caught up in a random structure. A little relativization is in order. We'll have a policy debate on Madurodam next time, I think. I thank the Minister for his response. I have a few comments to make. Fortunately, the Minister himself sees the necessary light points and a sunny future for the islands. I hope so with him. Maybe it's something for Snowbirds. He could think of that. I am pleased that the Minister can also appreciate my realistic approach. At least that's what I meant to listen to in his words. To be honest, I found the answer somewhat weak. In general, this is where the "asymmetry in coordination" breaks out, if I may use that term here. We've seen it tonight. Perhaps all the departments should have been represented here at the table, but unfortunately there is only one Minister for the Interior who should coordinate the matter in his liaison role. A lot of other things do not come out well in the answers. In the answer, the minister was a little skinny, I just indicated. I can add a few points from my text that he has not answered. I will go through them with his approval or, rather, with the approval of the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u221	You have nineteen seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u222	I'll make that quick. I miss the strategic approach to how we should proceed after this transition. The Minister says that the chosen constitutional structure is not a subject of evaluation. Those are my words. The Spies Committee merely makes recommendations or, rather, no recommendations, but that does not relieve the Minister of any further thought. I said that there was no legislative rest. Apparently that is now reduced to "we go locally, unless," with the variant of differentiation. That's good. The system of administrative balance of checks-and-balances is a matter for the board. I get that. The Minister has also promised to provide support in this respect. I think it's okay if we can follow that. I would like to mention the increase in national spending and the explosive increase to 367 million, from 80 million in 2010. That requires a little more answers than I haven't received at all. I would like to know more about this in its entirety, including the amounts going to the islands outside this circuit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u223	Do you think about your time, Mr. Kok?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u224	Yes, I'll be ready in a minute, Mr. Chairman. Zero measurements are missing and statistical data are actually not available. That makes every discussion very shaky. I would like to draw your attention to this. Otherwise, any standards are going to stick in the air. I would like to mention the multiannual programmes. It's a bit of a random list. Can we get more information on how they are going to look in each department? The brain drain has the attention of the minister. I still have the question of how he looks at the conditions for the establishment of young people who come here and end up in crime. That's an overnumber. How does the Minister look at conditions of establishment or establishment? a possible initiative proposal in the Lower House? Explanation of refugee policy has also been requested in the broadest sense. With this, I can finish my story, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I'm a little over time, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u225	You are two minutes and ten seconds past time, so I have been very flexible, Mr Kok. Is the Minister able and able to respond immediately? Or does he want to think for a second? I understand he's gonna answer right away. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u226	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I will pass on the remaining questions and points of discussion and, finally, I will give the government's opinion on the motions for resolutions. Mr De Graaf tipped off the legislative restraint. Thinking about this one might say that it should actually apply to the whole of the Netherlands. You must be cautious with legislation and only introduce laws if there is a real need for it. So that is also the objection if you would like to put that into law. Such a law should actually apply to any other corner of the Netherlands. However, I think we agree that it should be the attitude of the officials and, by the way, of the Chambers of the States-General to be cautious. Apparently, the idea of twinning falls into good shape. It was also taken up positively by Mr Vreeman. I can imagine that the communities that are now watching feel addressed and perhaps take this up as a challenge. I'll come back to the motion later. I shall continue with Mrs Van Bijsterveld's comments. She has tabled a motion on the naming of the National Representative, but I shall come back to that in a moment. She also had a question about the multiannual plan. I have written down "multi-annual plan," but perhaps it should be "multi-annual programme." The multiannual programme for each of the public bodies is now set out in the multiannual plan we have agreed with the island authorities. So that is also the mandate for the State representative and the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u227	In order to spare the Minister an unnecessary response, let me explain. I was concerned about how the policy is being developed and how the relationship between central and decentralised lies. Is the Empire taking the lead, or isn't it? That's what the question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u228	Okay. That is indeed in the multi-annual plans that we have made with the islands and which are being drawn up in common. We also have administrative consultations with the island authorities twice a year. Mr Van Dijk asked about the role of the churches. The thing is, last week in Curaçao, I was in a company with some people from civil society. We talked about the problem of missing fathers in particular. The mothers work and also have to do the upbringing, while the father sits in the "snack," the local café, drinking beer. I also asked if the churches didn't do anything about it. Because we can try to get government influence in those families, but then we use the state side right away. I can imagine that in this case the parish priest "Catholics" can have a much greater influence. I have therefore tried to raise this issue on my own initiative. The answer is that, as far as one goes to church, one is not always guided by behavior. However, I certainly agree that churches play a major role in civil society in the six islands. On one island that is the Catholic church and on the other island that is other churches. Especially for the people who are politically active on the ground, I think it is wise to realize this and to have a good dialogue with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u229	I am very pleased that the Minister recognizes the point and has even made a point of it. Is he prepared to pursue this point wherever possible, so that it does not remain occasional? There is, I think, quite something to gain in this field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u230	That's what I'm telling you. Mr Van Dijk spoke about the separation of church and state. It's not at all at stake here. These are important organisations that play a major role in social work and social work, but also in moral education, if you would call it that. It seems appropriate to have good contact with this and to seek synergies with what is sometimes public policy. That's what I'm saying. Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Kok spoke about the coordinating role. Others have also said something about this. I have also been a coordinating minister for homo-emancipation and women's empathy. Sometimes you do have to refer to other departments, for example when it comes to women's empowerment about labour market measures. That's right; it's no different. Mr Ganzevoort was right to ask very cleverly why I am answering this question. I also want to be a little practical. There are not only in the stands, but also upstairs in the civil servants' room, people from other departments. I am preparing for the debate, partly on the basis of information from other departments. I will give another example in reply to Mrs Teunissen. If I feel that I know enough to answer, I try to do so, because otherwise it will be a bit of an empty situation, if you only have the real BZK topics left. I do what I can, but every now and then the subject becomes too big or there are political considerations in relation to other departmental wishes or interests of my colleague. Then I have to say in my coordinating role that I make sure it gets on the right desk. If one never hears of it again, one can report to me, then I will ring the bell. I'll deal with the motion in a moment. Mrs. Meijer asked for a good hotel school. That is also one of the subjects on which I have had some contact with OCW, because that is their policy area. There is limited possibility of secondary vocational education in the Caribbean Netherlands. The Schools community Bonaire provides a number of mbo-training courses for the tourism sector, such as cook, host or hostess and employee service. For other further education, the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands can use training facilities outside their island. This is on Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten, where much more mbo is offered, and on a limited scale also higher education. For other education, they can go to the region, the Caribbean, the United States or the Netherlands. The Minister of Education, together with the other three Ministers of Education, is prepared to examine with the cooperating universities of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten what they want to do about further education and how they can optimise the supply of higher education on the islands. This is mainly an answer from the student who needs education. I also understood Mrs Meijer's question that it could give an impetus to the island to establish such activities. In extreme form, you can see that at the medical school on Saba. That's a quarter of the island's population. That can therefore play a very important role. I support that plea. Mr Ten Hoeve asked about the common court. That is indeed a question on the subject of V and J, but I have been informed about it. The Minister of V and J addresses his colleagues on payments for common law enforcement facilities, including the Common Court. This has recently been done at the Judicial Quadruple Conference on 1 June. The final report of the Evaluation Committee on Judicial Laws also highlights the problems of funding. It was agreed in the JVO that a position would be reached before 31 July, where possible jointly. I suggest you wait and see. There were two motions by Mrs Teunissen. She said she would take the first motion if I passed that question on to my colleague. I'll admit I'll pass on that question. What happens to it is up to the colleague, but I admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u231	Could the Minister inform me, perhaps through the Secretary of State, when he can respond to this? Could that possibly be before Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u232	I find that difficult, because I don't even know if he's in the country. I will pass on the question and ask you to inform. I'm sure he will as soon as he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u233	Then I'll take the motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u234	At the request of Mrs Teunissen, I propose that her motion (34300-IV, CXIX, letter S) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u235	Mrs Teunissen said that agriculture should be small-scale. I agree, but that's automatic on the public bodies. At a company on Statia where I was the other day, a young man and his father and two more employees worked, so that's always small-scale and manual. I do not think we need to worry about very large-scale agriculture. We can be happy if there is some degree of professionalism in it. Mr Nagel asked when the department was aware of this issue. It doesn't matter if I was personal, but my employees, the people of the Dutch Caribbean Office, were undoubtedly from the moment this happened. There's no other way. I shall now come to Mr Nagel's motion. He asked the question: what if there is no evidence that anyone has worked anywhere? Then it gets complicated. There must be some basis. I can imagine that people are not childish and assume good faith wherever possible, but that will have to be there, because otherwise I can't make anything out of it either. Mr Van Kappen asked to get a picture of the support provided to the island administration. I think I can do that on the basis of the annual report of the State representative. I admit that, using that information, I will forward it to the Supreme Court. Then there was a question about refugee policy. Does Bonaire have the same asylum legislation as the Netherlands? No, it's not. That was a conscious choice at the time of 10-10-10, given the rural character and small scale. There's protection possible, but it's not the same as here. A roadmap has also been developed for the Caribbean Netherlands. It was before the situation in Venezuela got worse. That is the specific answer on Bonaire, but as far as the countries are concerned, I understand the question as to whether it is a task or a task of the Kingdom. When people land there with a boat, it is basically a national task how to deal with it. As soon as aspects of foreign affairs come into view, that is by definition a Kingdom task. Should an undesirable situation arise, it is important to solve that shoulder-to-shoulder problem. Then we must not point at each other, push away or bring them to us, but then we must do so in common. That is why I have said that I will ensure that BZK, together with the State Department, but where necessary with Public Health, I and M, and perhaps Defence, and with the islands there, is aligned so that we are ready for eventualities. Mr. Ester asked to measure more and collect numbers. I was reminded of Mr Vreeman's remark that it is actually a neighborhood. I would like to be a little reluctant to put the whole CBS on it. I think it's up to the island authorities to measure where necessary to know more. I will do the same if there is reason to do so, but I would also like to be a little cautious about that. I'll be on the motion in a minute. Mr Vreeman made a plea for simplification. That appeals to me very much. For this reason, I will say in a few moments' time: I would not do it. Another point was Wageningen. To my knowledge, there are projects with the University of Wageningen. I will applaud them enthusiastically and certainly say that it can do more, but I remember seeing projects that run at Wageningen University on working visits to Saba. When you study or teach tropical agriculture, you're crazy not to put it into practice in part in that part of the Kingdom. I might have answered Mr Kok's questions briefly, so he stopped by. Many of these points have already been raised in the debate. I have spoken extensively about asymmetry, as have the coordinating ministership, in the direction of Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Kok. How much further after the transition? That is the whole debate we are having here today. My conclusion is indeed that we should not change the structure. That is also what I said in response to questions from others. I have spoken about legislative calm. I recognize the brain drain, but I have said that in a free country it is only possible to limit it. You have to seduce people and see if there's any other means to find them. After all, it's up to the people themselves. He also asked about allowing people with a criminal background. Reference has already been made to the Bosman Initiative Act. The cabinet has to take a position on this and then it is discussed first in the House of Representatives. I would like to refer to that. There is another question from Mrs Teunissen about the Habitats Directive that I have not yet answered. I will, but she may not be satisfied with the answer. Indeed, the Habitats Directive only applies within the European Union. Caribbean Netherlands is not part of this. Moreover, in the context of international obligations, the Netherlands reports on biodiversity in the Caribbean Netherlands to the European Union, and I admit that I do not know all the abbreviations in full: CBD, Spaw, CMS, ICRW and CITES, but not because it has to be the Habitats Directive of Europe. Finally, I would like to make another attempt to convince Mr Nagel, although the motion has already been tabled. All apparent abuses will be investigated, but that will take a few months. They're all paper files. The country of the Netherlands Antilles was not in order. We must have a title for recovery, as I have just said. I'll make sure you have a good factual investigation. The point is that the right holders do not suffer any damage. I'll inform the Chamber about that after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u236	I have already said that we are grateful to the Minister that he is going to ensure that people are not unduly harmed, that he is guaranteeing and that they will be paid for. However, there are people who have found that they have paid for 12 years, but that no payments have been made and that they were not in the system. A number of people have kept the paychecks. They can prove that. But those who haven't kept the pay slips are in a vacuum. It can't be true that in this computer age, in which the pay slips are delivered digitally, in all those schools and in all those governments that are failing? That's just not possible, is it? That needs to be figured out. The Minister also did not answer the question of how he felt about the negligence of the employers and the public authorities who have been collecting contributions for many years and who have not made any payments. That money's gotta be somewhere. Is the Minister going to find out and take any action against it? Because this is unheard of, isn't it? Those people have been in the dark for years, they are worried and they are disadvantaged. It can't be true that these people pay contributions and that the person who collects the premiums doesn't pay them off in many cases for many years and doesn't meet their own obligations. The Minister can't let that go on his side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u237	I'd like to try not to repeat it. I have tried to answer this point. Something will have to be found somewhere for claims, of course. Ideally that should be in the employer's files, but I cannot judge from this whether they are negligent. I've agreed to sort this out on the basis of the files that are available. I also think it is important that this happens. I can therefore very well imagine Mr Nagel's indignation. I'm getting to the motions now. I must say that I always tend to try to give enthusiastic advice on the motions. However, we have already achieved so much consensus that what seems to remain on the screen is not the points on which I would enthusiastically recommend. But that's no different. I come to the motion under letter P by Mr De Graaf and others on modernising the Statute. I don't think that's an end in itself. I do not see a great need for this elsewhere in the Kingdom. I also find it bizarre that, two weeks ago, when we dealt with the modernisation of the Staff Regulations in the House of Representatives, there were only three political parties present. That does not make me feel that the legislator, first the House of Representatives and then the First Chamber, is now incredibly waiting for the Statute to be modernised, other than solving bottlenecks. I'll be the first to do that, of course, but I'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u238	Apart from the content of the consideration, which I can justify in itself, but which we think differently about, I do not think that the fact that there were relatively few speakers in another Chamber of this Parliament is an argument to discourage the broad-based motion of this Chamber, which may look a little more at the constitutional than just the pragmatic sides, on that ground. That seems to me to be a weak point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u239	The argument is supported by my impression, which is also based on talks with the government of other countries in the Kingdom, that they do not give priority to this. That's the context in which I meant this. Then I come to the motion under letter Q of Mrs Van Bijsterveld, in which the government is asked to propose, at the next amendment of the WolBES, that the terms of reference of the post in the WolBES be clarified in such a way that the two-sidedness of the post is shown explicitly. I think that is a pleasant addition, because that means that Mrs Van Bijsterveld is not asking for a separate legislative process, but that she is proposing to do so when the WolBES are next amended. Frankly, it is quite clear in practice: the State representative is constantly running the door here to defend the interests of public bodies. But there seems to me to be no objection to the explication or clarification of that. The motion also called for the name of the office of the National Representative to be replaced by "Commissioner Caribbean Netherlands." We have the king's commissioner. It often happens that a commissioner of the King turns to the naming government with: in Friesland or in Limburg this is very important. But it remains the king's commissioner. By talking about the Commissioner for the Caribbean Netherlands, we could create a misunderstanding, because it remains an official appointed by the Minister for the Interior. Let me put it this way: if the precise indication of this were to remain in the middle, I see Mrs Van Bijsterveld nodding, I could leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. By the way, I do not think we are solving a problem in practice. The National Representative is doing very well and for everyone is clear what his position is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u240	I would just like to make it very clear that it is not a question of how the current State representative operates or does not function. In my opinion, it is excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u241	It's been noted. Thank you. I come to the motion under letter "R." The motion is very widely signed, but I must strongly discourage it. It is requested to set a social minimum on the basis of calibrations for the necessary living. So it is not a question of orienting it, but of establishing it. This will have consequences; it could, for example, exceed the minimum wage, causing the whole labour market to collapse. Then you could say that you have to raise the minimum wage, but then the whole economy collapses. You can't just do that. It's also an uncovered motion. It is certainly a question of millions within the Social Affairs budget. Also in the Netherlands, the social minimum is not set on the basis of the cost of living. I can't help but dissuade the motion. If the Chamber adopts the motion, it will be discussed at some point with my colleague from Social Affairs. I do not know whether there is support for this idea in the House of Representatives. That's not my impression. I did have a debate with the parties who were present on this subject in connection with the Spies Committee. The Van Laar motion was also adopted then, but it is far more reluctant than this motion. Despite sympathy for the subject, I must strongly advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u242	The social minimum is both in the Netherlands and there a calculation model. It is a calibration amount based on a number of assumptions, such as the cost of living. The social minimum doesn't necessarily coincide with the policy that you take from it, but it does say: what is objectified the amount you need to survive? That's what it's about. In this motion, the Chamber requests that that amount should not depend on the economic capacity of the island. Asked to objectify what it takes to survive. Otherwise, we will have no objective basis for our poverty policy. If it turns out that large groups are living in poverty, we have of course to resolve it with each other. But that's another question. On how to resolve this, the groups that have put their names under this motion will have different ideas. That debate will then have to be held, but the question is very broad to objectify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u243	No, if you're asking the government to set a social minimum, the under stand must, of course, come to that level. You can't say: we're going to be below that social minimum. The Secretary of State for the first time, I stress that one of the minimum social standards derived from the minimum wage is defined, where the under stand will be taken in steps. That is new, and that is good news, and I also say it to those who appreciate it. I strongly advise against the motion on behalf of the cabinet. Because she is not covered, she is also under the coalition rules. I know it doesn't play in the First Chamber, because budget law is not in the first place in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u244	The First Chamber also has budget rights, but that doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u245	But that is what she has following decisions on budgets taken by the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u246	I note that the Minister contradicts himself in his last reaction. If the cabinet sets a social minimum, it is good in itself, but it does so in a different way. But the Minister himself says that this does not mean that the under stand is immediately brought to the point of the social minimum. There is therefore no one-to-one link between setting a social minimum as a benchmark and the policies that result from it. That must be discussed, but it will follow. The question is, how do we objectify it? I will leave it at that, because I do not think we are coming out of this difference at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u247	No, because the Secretary of State has also undertaken to derive the social minimum from the minimum wage and not to determine it on the basis of the reference amounts for the necessary living. That is not the system in the European part of the Netherlands either. I don't think it should happen the way the motion says. Again, it would also have very undesirable consequences for the economy. Mrs Teunissen held her motion under letter S, for which I am grateful. In the motion under letter T it calls for another report on conservation in the Caribbean Netherlands. That would be a headline on obligations imposed by Europe. We're not in general for that. Nor do I have the impression, as I have just said, that there is no mention of nature conservation in the Caribbean Netherlands. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u248	I believe that the reports that the Minister just mentioned follow from international treaties. It does mention this, but the Minister did not address the question of whether the conservation status is actually reported annually. That makes perfect sense to me. Targets are formulated in the Caribbean Netherlands Nature Policy Plan. Those targets will be evaluated. A report is sent once a year. It is therefore logical to include in this report the animal species on the islands, the habitats situation and how further policies are being developed on the basis of them. That makes perfect sense. That is why my question to the Minister is also whether, although a number of generalities have been mentioned in a number of treaties, he can also specifically take into account the state of play of habitats and animal species in the annual reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u249	The case is that I have recently seen a list of reports on animal species within Europe in the context of the City Agenda. When you see that total summation, it gets a little comical. Mrs Teunissen now says that the reports I have just mentioned stem from international treaties. As Minister for Foreign Affairs, I cannot honestly see whether there is sufficient reporting in it. Mrs Teunissen knows more about it than I do, but if she says it is not enough, she should discuss it with my colleague Martijn van Dam. In general, I have the impression that there is no underreporting of animal species in the Caribbean Netherlands. That may be the case, but I would like to refer Mrs Teunissen to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u250	But can the Minister not, through Secretary of State Van Dam, provide a letter for Tuesday explaining clearly whether there is a report on the conservation status on Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u251	I don't know if I can do that for Tuesday. I can also leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber and ask my colleague if he will give an opinion on it before Tuesday. My impression is... Okay, well, let me stay away from that impression. But if Mrs Teunissen asks me for an opinion, I would advise against the motion. In the motion under letter you ask Mr Nagel to set up a separate committee. I'd advise against that. I've just made promises. The State is talking about it and I will share the results with the Chamber. I was just in dubio about the last motion, under letter V, by Mr Ester, because I wonder if Mr Ester's information is completely up-to-date with what we are doing in this area. That's what the conversation we were talking about just now showed. The motion states that "measures to improve children's rights have been launched in the context of the Caribbean Netherlands multiannual programme." That's not true. An action plan on children's rights was drawn up, invited by a motion from the House of Representatives. This is coordinated with all departments and all islands, both the three countries and public bodies, with input from UNICEF. A task force has also been set up. That is what structural funding is for. The results shall be reported on the basis of the Action Plan. In the operative part, the government is requested to report, but we are already doing so. In a sense, therefore, it is an unnecessary motion, if I may say so rudely. It is up to the House to do with it, but this is already being done. That's what I've been discussing all the motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u252	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-9.u253	I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled. I would like to point out that the motion (34300-IV, CXIX, letter S) of Mr Teunissen cum suis has been held.
