ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u1	Six speakers have signed up for this debate, with very varied speaking time. We're gonna see how we can manage that. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State of the United States of America. Let's get started soon. It remains for me to say that five amendments have now been tabled. In fact, I expect the Secretary of State to appreciate this in his first term of office. We're used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u2	Mr. Chairman. The vast majority of the Sweep Act has a technical character. Most of them are therefore supported by my group. However, a number of amendments to the Youth Act are also substantive in nature. I'll get back to you on that, but I'll start with another subject. For the Donor Data Act artificial fertilization a legal basis is created for the use of the BSN by the Foundation donor data artificial fertilization. This increases the chance that children will be able to get in touch with the donor from the age of 16. Of course, using the bsn increases the care and reliability of the recording systems. At the same time, it is also a limitation of the anonymity of donors. This is justified by the right of children to know who their biological parent is. Adding the bsn is only an addition to the physical and social data that is already being requested; so even more data. My question to the Secretary of State is whether something is going to go down or whether we are simply asking for more. I'd like to get a reaction to that. The most important topic for D66 is the Youth Act ministerial regulation, privacy and medical professional secrecy. We can't deny that the process has gone rather messy. In my group's view, the whole process does not deserve a beauty prize. First of all, the Cabinet was flagged back by the Dutch Data Protection Authority, formerly the Personal Data Protection College. Then there was a temporary ministerial arrangement, which had to be introduced head-on and which we are still working with, pending a final ministerial settlement. Let me be clear: for my group, it is important what is to be included in this ministerial arrangement. It lays down a number of important decisions, but we cannot discuss them today. That's a shame, of course. Can the Secretary of State indicate when the ministerial regulation will be sent to the Chamber? In reply to questions from the CDA, I saw that there is still a veil in the way that the ministerial arrangement comes to the Chamber. That is very important for my group. The ministerial arrangement is important because it is a concrete limitation which is lacking in some areas of the Youth Act and which can be implemented in the Youth Act. We consider this limitation to be important. Open provisions without strict definition are risky because they lay down the powers of persons involved in the execution. I believe, for example, that this can lead to arbitrariness, for example, of officials who have to work with it. I would therefore like to make it clear whether we can expect this limit in the ministerial regulation or whether we should make it available tonight. I would like an extensive response from the Secretary of State. Youth aid is diverse. When we compare youth-ggz with judicial youth care, we see two very different forms of youth aid. Now it looks like everything's getting put together. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the ministerial arrangement will contain a further breakdown? Or is it just gonna be the same for everything? My group wants the privacy of vulnerable young people to be properly regulated by the Youth Act. If I add that this process has so far gone vaguely and that the practice shows that the privacy of municipalities is not properly regulated at the moment, this debate is an opportunity to regulate the privacy of parents, children and young people properly. Let us therefore take advantage of this opportunity to regulate this properly and make the necessary changes. Can the Secretary of State indicate to what extent a privacy impact assessment, i.e. a test on the privacy of the Youth Act, has taken place? If that test did not take place, can the Secretary of State explain, in accordance with the Segers/Oosenbrug motion, why this was not chosen? After all, that law is about privacy. Perhaps that is also the most important topic tonight. Why has no privacy impact assessment been performed? The new Article 7.4.0 of the Youth Act ensures which data are processed and thus received by municipalities. D66 wants these data, which can be used for example for policy information and/or care procurement, to never be traced back to individuals. My group has a number of amendments to this effect. 21 tabled an amendment. Article 6a.6 of the temporary scheme requires municipalities not to process more personal data than is strictly necessary. Those are of course beautiful words, but what does "must be" really mean? How does that take shape in practice? How do we ensure that that is not violated? Will this passage also be included in the ministerial arrangement? I'd like to get a reaction to that. D66 is concerned about the large number of parties which are actually obliged to break medical professional secrecy under Article 7.4.3 of the Youth Act. Can the Secretary of State state state what is the legal basis for this? A large group of people are asked to break medical confidentiality if necessary. What is the legal basis for that? And why is it necessary? That is not clear to me in the answer. D66 is in favour of a minimum exchange of information, especially in the case of minors. As an example, we have read in the report of the Amsterdam Court of Auditors that many municipalities are unable to handle the security and handling of personal data properly. That's worrying. I don't think we should trivialize that. Compliance with the rules is not subject to structural testing, aid workers are not aware of the rules and citizens are not sufficiently informed about their rights. Too many people have access to files. Add to that that there is hardly any control over who can see the files. D66 wants municipalities to communicate on their website how they deal with personal and medical data. We ask the Secretary of State to say that he will discuss this with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. The site of each municipality should show how the data is handled. That's the minimum we can ask. D66 thinks this is a serious signal. We gotta get to work on this. In municipalities, a lot of people come into contact with this data, i.e. personal data and medical data, whether or not covered by medical professional secrecy. However, many people working for municipalities are not covered by medical professional secrecy. I assume the Secretary of State recognizes this gap as well. How's he gonna solve this in the short term? In what ways can municipalities ensure that these data, which are actually subject to medical professional secrecy, remain safe? The Secretary of State stated in the note following the report that he would come back to the degree of detail of the diagnostic information. He would consider how it could be reduced at the specialist ggz. In preparing for this debate, I was unable to find the answer from the Secretary of State. I think that's sloppy. I wonder what the outcome of the State Secretary's reflection process is. Should the level of detail of the diagnostic information be changed? Should it be less detailed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u3	I have a question about privacy and medical confidentiality. That was just mentioned. For the sake of clarity, I would like to know the following about D66. How are you gonna fix that? I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how we guarantee that medical confidentiality in the Youth Act. The GP can give indications. That's secured. But the municipality can also make indications or be made by officials. How do you guarantee medical confidentiality for that group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u4	I think that is a fair question from the SP. How do you improve privacy and guarantee medical confidentiality? We believe that what is now being proposed can be improved. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments. We are also considering putting to the vote a motion that we had previously held. We believe, for example, that it should be limited in relation to those personal data. In law, this is now an open standard. We also believe, for example, that the personal data should not be traceable. If you use that data for control, it doesn't matter who they came from. That is what we propose in our amendment. We have also tabled an amendment on the removal of 'at least' in the new article on the data on which the ministerial regulation can determine something. We find 'at least' such an open standard. We have also tabled an amendment to ensure that you do not need to use diagnostic information when billing. You don't have to do that. You don't have to do that with the basic ggz. We have therefore tabled a number of amendments. We are also considering submitting a motion, the scope of which is: if you carry out a material check, make sure that you inform people beforehand. Minister Schippers said that this is all a regulatory burden, all of which are administrative burdens. However, our group attaches great importance to the fact that medical professional secrecy is not simply broken, not even in the case of a physical check, and that you ask for prior authorisation. Those are our ideas. Of course, I am also interested in the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u5	In this answer, you have already been able to explain your own amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u6	Thanks to the SP. And I'm gonna get to do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u7	The spokesperson of the SP is now going to ask a very brief follow-up question, followed by a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u8	The problem is it wasn't really an answer to my question. The indication in youth care can also be made by people who are not so much kept to medical professional secrecy as people who, for example, are covered by the BIG Act. How are you gonna tackle that privacy problem? Shouldn't the indication counters which do that from a municipal point of view actually belong to professional groups which are bound by medical professional secrecy and therefore fall within the scope of the BIG Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u9	That is a suggestion from the SP and that is also a question I have asked. As with health insurance companies, people may be covered by professional secrecy. That's what health insurance companies choose. That can be a solution, but that's the only way you can't solve it. You must also avoid people from many professional groups having access to the files at all. I certainly think it is important that not too many people can simply come to an assessment and have access to medical professional secrecy. To this end, we have tabled a number of amendments and a motion for a resolution. I share the point made by the SP, namely that it is important that not everyone should have access to it and that people should at least be covered by a certain level of professional secrecy, as is the case with health insurers. I come to the subject of diagnostic information on declarations. There are sensitive data on the declarations for municipalities. Those who work with these declarations are indeed not subject to medical professional secrecy. I ask the Secretary of State again: shouldn't it be? As one might suspect, my group is not in favour of diagnostic information on the declaration. Can the Secretary of State indicate why that is necessary at all? For example, there is no need for this in the generic basic ggz. The diagnostic groups used show too much about the treatment of someone. An alternative might be to indicate, for example, the time- or care-gravity indication, i.e. whether light, medium or heavy care should be provided. I'm trying to think along with the Secretary of State. Of course there must be information about the treatment, but not about the diagnosis, because then you give a lot of price. I'll ask the Secretary of State how he builds up his privacy. D66 is also curious to see what he thinks of our amendment to item No. 17. Fortunately, there is an opt-out scheme regarding the diagnostic data on declarations. That means that people who do not want diagnostic data on the invoice can indicate that. However, we still have a number of questions on this subject. D66 likes to hear how people are informed that this possibility exists, so that they can say that they do not want diagnostic information on the invoice. Is this responsibility now primarily with the caregivers? Can the Secretary of State indicate how often the opt-out is used? I also hope that the Secretary of State can guarantee that if someone opts out and uses it, this will not lead to resistance in the municipality. Does the Secretary of State agree with D66 that a parent should be able to deviate from the rules when he indicates that he does not want diagnostic data on the invoice? Why is that strictly necessary if you also have an opt-out? In fact, I find that contradictory. I come to the wild growth of products. All product groups within the youth aid system do not make it clear to the parties concerned. It can also be read that a working group is to be set up. The Secretary of State recently indicated that there will be a letter before 1 April to address the regulatory burden, also following a motion by D66 and the PvdA. Does this also include the problem of the proliferation of products? I come to another subject: material control. D66 is not in favour of this without informing the person concerned. I am going to be brief because I have just indicated this in response to an interruption of the SP. I did not consider the Minister's reply to this question to be sufficient. Regulatory burden and administrative burden should not be a reason to deal with medical professional secrecy and physical control. Control is fine and necessary to tackle fraud, but make sure people know in advance who's sniffing the file. It's only 25,000 medical records a year. The latter is not the decisive argument for my group. In addition, the Minister states that there is a legal obligation of confidentiality for all persons employed by health insurers. My group is reluctant to do so, looking at the current experience in the municipalities. My group is therefore considering putting the Bergkamp/Pia Dijkstra motion to the vote again. The Secretary of State states that material control in the Youth Act may only take place after the adoption of the ministerial regulation. I therefore want the undertaking that we will not start until this ministerial arrangement has been discussed here in the Chamber. D66 considers it important to have secure legitimate arrangements and procedures to ensure restrictive exchange, processing and use of confidential and risky data. We do this in the interests of parents, children and young people. It is quite a mouthful, but we know that they are all open standards at the moment and that it is left to the municipalities themselves, without a clear framework. I know from many municipalities that there is a need for a clear framework. We think it is unwise that we should leave it so open now, because we see that there are problems in practice. Although D66 recognises that many municipalities work extremely hard to make the Youth Act a success, there is a risk that files will fall into the wrong hands. We believe that this should have been better thought out in advance. We can see that there are problems in practice. That is why we are trying to restore this by means of a number of motions and amendments. Of course, the Youth Act will never be waterproof as long as so many interested parties have access to sensitive information. This evening, D66 called for better protection of minors' data in order to avoid unnecessary risks. I ask the Secretary of State to take an active stance and better safeguard privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u10	We share D66's concerns about the protection of privacy. We have also raised this point in the debate on the Youth Act. We have proposed to run a test in a certain small region to see if it is okay. So I fully share the concerns and the problem position with D66, but I have doubts about the solution. If you completely omit diagnostic information from an invoice, how can a municipality check that no fraud is committed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u11	There's no diagnostic information on the base ggz either. So it's possible. You can work with that. You can put information about the treatment on an invoice, for example the heaviness and duration. You don't have to say, "Pietje Puk is suffering from schizophrenia." You can also indicate: there is a treatment, namely light therapy or just a few examples. So there are other ways that lead to the same result. I share with the PVV that fraud needs to be dealt with hard, but it can also be done differently. To this end, we are continuing a number of efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u12	I understand the concerns greatly. It is now decentralised to municipalities. Suppose a city official is on the soccer field on Saturday and knows exactly that Kees' son has that and that condition. I'd really hate that. That is one of the reasons why the PVV then voted against the rapid introduction. I really wonder if what D66 is telling us is really the answer. We all know that health insurance companies, for example, even put on our invoice what kind of shot we get or what kind of blood tests we have done. We don't want the insurers to know everything about us because they're our insurers. Yet that information is there, because someone needs to be able to check that everything that happens is true. That is why I am once again asking whether D66 has thought about the development of this solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u13	I thank Mrs Agema for this question. We have certainly thought about that. We have also talked to privacy experts about what you can provide as information. That is why we find that you can put information about the treatment on the invoice. You can indicate the duration and gravity of the invoice without putting the diagnosis on the invoice. If you look at the basic ggz, you don't have to. According to D66, this should not be a problem in dealing with fraud. We agree that fraud must be dealt with. However, we do not agree that this requires diagnostic information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u14	I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven, who will take Mrs Leijten's place tonight, but on behalf of the SP. It's gonna stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u15	Mr. Chairman. I hope: two souls, one thought. If it's okay, you can expect it from the SP. We are talking today about the collecting law or the sweeping law. It was offered to the Chamber a year ago and the SP is not very good about the whole process. D66 has already said so. Is it even a law of sweeping? With a sweeping law you think mainly of technical solutions, but here are a number of substantive points. Actually, we don't think you should put it in a law of sweeping, because that's more of a technical exercise. You have to deal with the substance of these points properly and not sweep them all together. Apart from what you think about it and what route you walk, it is also better for the controlling task of the Chamber if this is kept apart properly. Probably the process was better and more orderly than it is now. We ask the Cabinet to take this into account in the future and to do so differently. Now I come to the subjects. I'll start by abolishing the College Building care institutions. With the abolition of this, the government hopes to reverse the last few open ends of public supervision of the healthcare real estate. In fact, it does so without being clear what the consequences are of abolishing supervision. The build-up of risk is up to 100%, but this continues until 2017. We can also see that capital charges have increased significantly, by 25% since 2008. The cabinet indicated in its answers to our questions that it takes some time for the effects of the construction regime to be clearly visible. That is why we consider the abolition of the College building care institutions to be premature. How can it be that the cabinet, while the consequences of that abolition are not yet well known, has already decided to burn all the ships, so that there is no turning back? I will mention a few excesses or megalomaniac projects, such as the Isala Clinic in Zwolle or the Medical Spectrum Twente. Those hospitals have been in great trouble because of how they settled the capital costs. We know the discussion about the interest rate swaps. It was predicted in 2012. Then it was said to the MST that there would be big problems because of this huge construction, but they did it anyway. And what happens? We've got to get a hundred people out or more. Stones are stacked and the staff are sent out to pay the capital costs. Can the Secretary of State see if that has anything to do with each other? You could use an evaluation for that, too. In the past, the College of Buildings had a prominent role in all these construction plans. That is all gone and it is left to the market. With these examples in mind, I find that very unwise. That is why we have tabled an amendment to maintain for the time being the College of Construction Care Institutions. Then there is the discussion on the quality standard. I do not want to end up in a well-naïve discussion with the Minister about the exact nature of that quality standard. That discussion was about whether health insurers have a say in the way in which the standard of action is set, but that is less important to us. When it comes to quality standards for care, it would be better if the health insurance provider were taken out completely. That should be a matter between the patients and the caregivers, the doctors, the nurses, and so on. Then privacy under the Youth Act. The Youth Act has come about with steam and boiling water, and that is noticeable. We can see that in this debate. Changes have been made. There were a lot of factsheets, handouts and beams; almost an infinite list. One of the things that shows that it was irresponsible to approve this bill at the time is the way privacy is regulated, or the lack of rules on it. We have seen an amendment from D66 on this. We think that this is better than current practice, but that does not, in my opinion, solve the problem fundamentally. That is why I had an interrupting debate with Mrs Bergkamp. The fundamental point is that municipalities, which are now responsible, should not sit in the chair of the professional. They shouldn't know what kind of care someone gets. It's part of the profession. The care professionals have to assess what a child needs. The municipality shouldn't be in the middle of that. Those professionals are trained for it. If it's okay, they have professional secrecy. If you take that principle as a starting point, you should base a system on it for how you're going to pay for it. This does not include accountants or financial types of the municipality who have to do that again. I think this is very wrong. There is certainly no need to push back and forth all kinds of dossiers in such a city office, because municipalities have to meet austerity targets. That seems to us to be the wrong way. A very important point of principle is that good youth care stands or falls with confidentiality. You have to be very sure that when you call for help, you do not have to be afraid of the consequences, that it will be on the streets and that confidentiality may be at stake, because that care is regulated or paid for. I think this is very wrong. This secrecy must really be at the forefront and we must decouple funding from it. That has to be arranged in a different way. We must also prevent parents from avoiding care because they feel that the whole town hall is aware of their child's situation, or because the child has that idea. We really shouldn't, because then we'll be a long way from home. That is why it is also a point of principle for us, that it starts with the indication and that it should actually lie with professionals. Keeping files is also such a point. You don't get sweaty feet when you're in social services. That goes on. These are profound and personal factors that make you need support and youth care as a child. For example, you've been helped for a number of years, and if it's okay, you'll disappear from youth care. You can go back to your own business. When you're grown up, you might want to look back, but then all the files are gone. That's incredibly intricate, isn't it? It's very good to be able to look back at what happened in the past and how you were treated. I understand it's been saved for 15 years now, but I don't know if it's been properly arranged. Isn't that too short? Four years ago, the Deetman Committee and the Samson Committee also spoke of all kinds of commendable words. That committee also stated that the retention period should be extended. I therefore have the following questions for the Secretary of State. Is he taking care of it because it is not yet properly arranged............................................................................................................................................................................. Will he also consider whether it is wise to extend that retention period to 30 years? I think that's much better, including with regard to matters such as sexual abuse. You see very often that things don't come up until decades later and become negotiable. That is why a long retention period, especially in youth care, is crucial. I await the comments of the Secretary of State on this point. I'm gonna finish this point. I hope that the Secretary of State will also ensure that in the meantime files do not disappear in any way because this retention period is not properly regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u16	I find these retention periods a very difficult issue. On the one hand, there are people who say: I really want to get rid of that file, because it haunts me. On the other hand, there are people who want to keep the file because it helps them in processing. What is the construction that the SP represents?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u17	It stays in the vault with the paramedic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u18	That's a clear answer in itself, but where's the client in there? Isn't it important that the client himself is the determining factor in this, and is himself at the buttons to keep the file or destroy it at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u19	The question in this discussion is: whose file is it? In my view, it's the case file of the paramedic and the patient. It belongs to both. It's a product of both, but when it comes to it, of course the patient has the last word. I think that the problem that Mrs Bergkamp rightly addresses concerns a minority. I am concerned with the principle that we should keep the files as long as possible and as well as possible. We need to think carefully about what we do with the category of adult patients who say: I want my file destroyed. We need to figure out how to fix that. Then it may be that a file is being destroyed, but I also think that the treatment provider should confirm that this does not unduly harm the patient's interests. This is a task for the aid worker, who may also consider that keeping a file is crucial in the interests of the patient. If he or she thought so, it would also be an element in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u20	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing here today a collectible law, also known as a sweeping law, with only technical changes. At least that's what the Cabinet says. However, changes can still look so technical on paper and on the ministry, they are indeed changes that can have major consequences for the people who need care. I would therefore like to join the previous speakers in saying that there are certainly not just some legislative amendments here. An important starting point in the care is that you must be able to rely on the fact that your data can only be understood by the people who are involved with you and who you trust with that data. Without privacy and without trust, no good care. I would therefore like to join with the questions that have already been asked about the changes relating to the sharing of data in the youth care sector. The Personal Data Protection Board was critical of the first proposed changes. The second letter of amendment would have indicated its agreement at official level. Can the Secretary of State clarify that? Is there also a public opinion or a reaction from the College Protection Personal Data that we can see? I told you last week, but I'm saying it again. It is certainly the duty of the Secretary of State to ensure the safe exchange of information and to ensure that his law is properly implemented. Apart from the privacy aspect of the Youth Act, I am also here because, apart from the collection of so-called technical amendments, I myself have added a proposal with the amendment that has just been tabled. Not systems, but people have to be at the forefront. That is a starting point that would be at least for GroenLinks but also for the cabinet. GroenLinks believes that the health care laws should support people as much as possible in order to manage the care themselves and that you should not depend on it from which law or regulation your care gets. By the way in which care in general daily operations, the adl-care, is included in the Long-Term Care Act, it may only be hired in a cluster of social housing. Of course, I understand that the biggest current provider, Fokus, works mainly in that way, but it is a solid piece of thinking from the systems rather than from what people need. GroenLinks believes that everyone should be able to make as many choices as possible and that you should not be hindered by the kind of care you need. The law is now working out so that, if you have or want a place to buy, you would not be able to fall back on this arrangement. I think that is a problem, and it also seems to me, to say the least, not UN Convention proof. Everyone has to be able to make the same choices, no matter the question of care. Then this obstacle doesn't fit in. I imagine that the Secretary of State will respond to this by saying that the person who wants or needs to receive this care in a house of sale can also arrange it in another way. I don't want this to be necessarily necessary. The laws are there for the people and must create as few obstacles as possible. And what's with the connection to a social housing unit? I really think that this link should be removed as much as possible. If it turns out in practice that the care can only be delivered in a cluster of homes, then that is of course the case. But to rule out the possibility that care can't take place in a place other than a social housing unit, I don't think it's the right signal. I believe that we need to lay down the rules in such a way as to take account of the diversity of ways in which people can shape the necessary care. In addition, this link was not there during the grant scheme, but it only came about with the Long-Term Care Act. That is sufficient reason for me to say that we can fix this if we want to. That is why I have tabled an amendment to release the link between adl care and social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u21	I have a clarifying question. I find it extremely sympathetic what Mrs Voortman is proposing, but I do have a practical question about it. At the moment adl care is given in a cluster of homes, a cluster of about sixteen very highly adapted homes. Mrs Voortman's proposal means that someone could also live on the other side of the city or in a city where, for example, there is no provider like Fokus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u22	What matters most to me is those situations in which people live nearby and where the healthcare provider says that he can provide that kind of care, but that it happens not to be a social housing in that cluster. We had a debate on Fokus residences a while ago. I am not sure if Mrs Agema was present, but this was, among other things, the subject at the time. I'd like to deal with these situations. If it is not possible in practice, then she has a point, but now it is only possible by definition in a social housing. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u23	I initiated that Fokus debate. I had a stomach flu myself, but my colleague Klever replaced me. We were just well represented. Does Mrs Voortman also want to include that nuance in the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u24	I need to think about that. I could do that in the explanatory statement, for example, but I have to take a good look at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u25	Thank you for your contribution. I give the floor to Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u26	Mr. Chairman. It is remarkable that we are discussing a sweeping law today, almost a year after it has been submitted to the Chamber; a sweeping law containing as many as four amending notes, supplementing omissions, correcting errors or achieving technical improvements. This usually leads to a hammer piece that can be handled quickly. However, we are here today to discuss a number of substantive issues. Four notes of amendment, the CDA Group therefore notes that the distinction between a technical sweeping law or collecting law and substantive legislation is gradually not so clear and is in some cases fading. For example, the second letter of amendment, following the advice of the Personal Data Protection College, introduced a change to the Youth Act to better guarantee the privacy of young patients. Among others, Mr Bergkamp has already said a few things about this. In a third letter of amendment, the government gives itself the possibility to entrust additional tasks to the Healthcare Authority without making any effort to explain them. Only later, after further inquiries, will the government indicate what this is supposed to be. That is why my first question to the government: does it want to reflect on the process that has gone on so far, now that it is in its last missionary year? If we could do it again, would it have gone exactly the same way? I have a number of substantive questions. The amendment to Article 2.11 of the Youth Act removes the ambiguity about the possibility for a municipality to mandate the establishment of the rights and obligations of young people to the youth support provider or the care institution. This possibility is also included in the Wmo. This sometimes leads to bizarre situations. We then hear from people that at some point a care institution or a welfare institution comes to tell what someone is still entitled to in terms of household care or in terms of, for example, daily spending and counselling. No one speaks of the possibility of appeal or objection. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore what is happening here. If the youth aid provider or health care institution decides on behalf of the college, is that still a decision against which you can object and appeal if you do not agree? If so, it follows from the General Administrative Law that you can object and appeal. Would it not then be clear to just include this in the bill, so that it refers to the possibilities of appeal and objection? I am assuming that this is the case. If you disagree with such a decision, there is a decision against which you can object. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction to this. I come to talk about the processing of personal data by youth aid providers and certified institutions. In the written reply, the Government replied to a question from the CDA Group that it is prepared to send the ministerial arrangement to the Chamber on this matter, but does not consider it desirable to have a structural suspension procedure. The CDA Group may imagine that not every technical change needs to be submitted to the Chamber, but it is really a matter of saying that all this is an essential element with far-reaching implications for the privacy of a young person and his or her family. Can the Secretary of State explain why this was chosen? The CDA Group is thinking together with the D66 Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Moreover, this legislative proposal appears to contain the same amendment as the law which the Chamber voted for today, which is to add the third paragraph of Article 7.3.1 that Article 7.3.11, fourth and fifth paragraphs, is applicable. This is a legal procedure, Mr President; I can't make it better. Did I read that correctly? We discussed this at length two weeks ago. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that medical professional secrecy can be broken in cases where an under-supervision is imposed. However, medical professional secrecy can only be broken for information relevant to the subject matter of supervision. I have not found that in the ministerial arrangement based on paragraph 5 which I have read. Is that right? If so, would it not be careful to include this in the detailed rules? If it is true that this has already been settled at the time of the adoption of the law, should this not lead to a fifth letter of amendment, taking this out again? Finally, I come to the proposed abolition of the College building care institutions, the organisation that has in the past interfered with the question of where nursing homes and nursing homes are being built. That's a job the College hasn't had care institutions in a long time. Well, that's different now. The CDA Group has some doubts about this. The college also has a role to play in determining the capacity of in-house living facilities. Given the fact that this cabinet chooses to allow people to live longer at home, there must be sufficient adapted and available housing. If the College construction care institutions disappear, how does the government stop seeing this? After all, it is necessary that there are in-house places for different target groups. The report of the January 2014 Environment and Infrastructure Council showed that we are short of tens of thousands of adapted care homes in the coming years. Who's gonna keep an eye on that later? Who's gonna make sure there's enough capacity? Who will see to that later for the Long-Term Care Act? Is it not wise to allow the College building care institutions to continue to exist legally in any case? I just suspect that we may not be in need of this for too long, especially since regulating the bridging care as it now looks, the view on waiting lists will disappear. That is one of the reasons why the CDA Group voted against that bill today. Can the Secretary of State indicate in this light what the results of Mr Marnix Norder's Chasing Team Langer Self-employed Living have been? What has been achieved in this area? For the time being, I come to the conclusion that little has been achieved. Part of the Norder Commission's mission was to remove obstructive regulations in the area of living and care, but that has not happened. Or did I misunderstand and read that? Then I'd like to hear it from this Secretary of State. In the amendment to item No. 20, which the SP has submitted, establishes a relationship between the continuation of the College building care institutions and the evaluation of the abolition of the construction regime with 100% riskiness. The CDA Group is very interested in the reaction of the Secretary of State to this. Does the Secretary of State want to reflect on the CDA's idea that the College should at least allow care institutions to continue to exist legally? We might need that college in the future just to keep an eye on the amount of adapted care homes that we still need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u27	I call Mrs van der Burg. Oh, no, there's one more question for you. I wasn't paying any attention. Excuse me, Mrs. Bergkamp. Please stand still, Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u28	Mrs Keijzer and I were pulled together last summer when there were considerable risks to privacy. Mrs Keijzer also mentioned the temporary ministerial arrangement. I wonder if the CDA, like D66, believes that there is a chance to achieve some improvements in the law today to protect the privacy of parents, young people and children. We have tabled a number of amendments. I just had an interrupting debate with the SP about the diagnostic information. I'm curious about the CDA's vision. Does the CDA also consider that there is an opportunity today to tighten up a number of things in the law on this issue, in addition to waiting for the ministerial settlement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u29	The answer to that is yes. Last summer, we were confronted with the possibility that declarations had to be sent to town halls, with names and names on which person and which diagnosed psychiatric problems were involved. That information could just roam. At that time, we were brought together to discuss this. We understand from the Secretary of State that the solution that would be sought, which I believe has been found, corresponds to the way in which declarations are handled in the adult ggz. With this you have secured that municipalities can check whether the promised care has been delivered, while privacy is guaranteed. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if this is still the case. I have just taken a quick look at the D66 amendments. There are things in it that I thought: hey, interesting, maybe we can improve it this way. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u30	I am glad that Mrs Keijzer wants to look at our amendments openly. Given our common struggle to improve that privacy, I wouldn't have expected otherwise. There's one thing that surprises me. It is very easy to say: in the adults-ggz it is also so arranged, so it is good. However, there is still a lot of discussion about how it is regulated in adults-ggz. Is it necessary to put that diagnostic information on that invoice? Other solutions are conceivable. Is the CDA open to looking critically at that? The fact that it's going according to the adult-ggz doesn't have to be a guarantee that it's going well. Does the CDA agree with D66 that this information could be as good off as there are other solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u31	The answer to this is in general: yes. Let's just look at that. I do think it is important for the municipality and the health insurance company to be able to check whether the care given is in conformity with the declared care. That's the one thing that matters. The other important thing is that people feel safe. People do not feel safe when they feel that information about their medical condition or their children's can wander. We have to avoid that with each other, because then people will avoid care. And nobody wants that, so neither does the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u32	Mr. Chairman. Major reforms have taken place in recent years in the care of young people and long-term care. These have been incorporated into the Youth Act, the Long-Term Care Act and the Social Support Act, all of which entered into force on 1 January 2015. Changes have also been made in the field of curative care. In today's sweeping law or Collector's Act VWS 2016, errors and imperfections in these laws are repaired. Such major reforms and the corresponding legislative changes make sense. A change has also been made in order to continue the source content of the own contribution for sheltered housing and to remove the College building care institutions. Following the in-depth written preparation of this bill and four letters of amendment, the main amendment to the Youth Act remains, as far as the VVD Group is concerned, the most important amendment. Through this bill, a more explicit basis is included in the Youth Act for the processing of personal data. This basis has been further adapted following critical questions from among others the VVD Group about the comments of the Personal Data Protection Board, now known as the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The VVD Group has a few more questions about the bill. Firstly, we have a question about the process of and the established basis for the processing of personal data, about the temporary ministerial regime that is now in force and about the final ministerial regime that will be developed after the entry into force of this law. Secondly, on the Long-term Care Act and the reimbursement of contracted and non-contracted care of foreign residents of the Netherlands in the European Union, the European Economic Area or Switzerland. Thirdly, on the administrative burden which these laws would have brought with them. First, the Youth Act. With regard to the clarification of the basis for the exchange of personal data for invoicing and the fight against fraud, my group raises the question of how this process has gone and what can be learned from it for the future. Can the Secretary of State say whether previous opinions of the Personal Data Authority have been discarded or not fully taken over during the preparation of the Youth Act on this point? I ask this question in order to assess whether we will once again be faced with a critical letter or letters from the Personal Data Authority on this point. Then there is the change to the explication of the base itself, as was achieved in the second letter of amendment. Is it now certain that the requested adjustments have been fully processed by the Personal Data Authority? Does the Personal Data Authority agree to this? Are the organisations whose professionals work on this also satisfied? My information is that this is the case, but I would also like to hear it from the Secretary of State. In short: are we not surprised again by one or more critical letters in six months' time? My group does not want that on this important issue. We consider that to be extremely undesirable. Parents and children should be able to rely on the proper handling of their personal data and that this is properly regulated by law. Then there's the temporary ministerial arrangement. Is it true that this scheme does not allow for the possibility of checking invoices and the like unless there are serious suspicions of fraud? Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD Group that this is undesirable? Can the Secretary of State say whether and if so how this will be remedied in the final settlement? In addition, the VVD Group would like to know when the Lower House can look forward to this final ministerial arrangement. In the temporary scheme, as in the ggz for adults, there is a possibility for parents and children to sign a certificate for specialist mental health care in which they do not allow the main group to which the disorder belongs to to be included in the invoice. The municipality has to pay the bill anyway. Can the Secretary of State say whether this so-called opt-out scheme is also included in the definitive scheme and how such an opt-out scheme relates to the legality of the use of funds and the possibility of combating fraud? What are the experiences with this opt-out scheme in the specialist ggz for adults? I come to my second point, the Long-Term Care Act. The law provides that foreign residents of the Netherlands are also entitled to reimbursement of contracted care if they live in one of the countries of the European Union, the European Economic Area or Switzerland. The answer to the questions shows that research shows that Zorgverzekerings Nederland and a large insurer with many Dutch residents living abroad do not know one foreign provider of care that has been contracted. The VVD Group wonders whether the legal right to care in this way is not compromised in practice. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Thirdly, the administrative burden. There are huge complaints about bureaucracy and the administrative burden resulting from decentralisation. The answer stated a number of things about this. There are a lot of product codes in the complaints, there must be national standards and so on. One of the main aims of these laws, namely to provide tailor-made solutions, seems to forget those who complain. There is also a simple solution that has already been incorporated into various laws and is already being applied by some regions working at regional level for the procurement of youth aid. Buy support and care based on social outcomes and use a limited set of criteria. Send policy on that and have healthcare providers answer for it. It gives the municipalities insight into what they actually buy, and therefore also what they do for the users of support and care. It gives professionals who provide support and care their profession back. They can exercise that again instead of filling out check-in lists. In addition, it gives users the most important advantage of being able to see what they can and can expect from health care providers in order to get on with their lives after treatment. As the latest report of the Children's Ombudsman showed, this is one of the points about which parents are now very dissatisfied. So, come on! It is also important that it saves an enormous amount of administrative burdens and bureaucracy. The money saved by this can once again benefit youth aid. What will the Secretary of State do with the municipalities, the branches, the professionals and the client organisations to actually promote this everywhere? Apparently, there's still a lot of cold feet. I think it could be an incentive if one showed these kinds of examples much more and showed that it was not so difficult. We should therefore ask the regions that are already working with it to give out their experiences. I look forward to the answer by the Secretary of State to the remaining questions the VVD Group has on this collectible law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u33	Mr. Chairman. What personal data may be processed and exchanged by whom and for what purpose? What's the legal basis for that? This information needs helpers, institutions and municipalities to avoid misunderstandings and errors. And parents have to give permission to do this, so that they have confidence in the information sharing. What information is shared with whom? Trust prevents parents from withholding information or avoiding care, as colleagues rightly said earlier. The exchange of personal data is based on an explicit legal basis with this law. There will be a permanent ministerial arrangement to replace the temporary one. The aim is to create a workable situation that protects privacy. I attach great importance to careful handling and storage of data from care seekers. The Labour Party stands for accessible youth care for all, helping vulnerable young people and families quickly and well, easily and closer to the people through the municipalities. This requires the right information. But in addition to the protection of children, young people and families themselves, their data and information must also be protected by careful handling. Within this bill, that is carefully secured. In addition to this law, a professional attitude is needed. Professionals don't have to share everything with everyone. They must indicate the purpose of exchanging information with whom. Parents' consent must be requested. And parents should also be able to say no if they don't want to exchange something, unless the child's safety is at stake. In addition, this should be done in a secure environment or via a secure connection. It would be extremely helpful if parents, children and young people could own their files themselves, if aid workers could add documents to them with the consent of parents, children and young people, and if they had permission to have aid workers read documents to other aid workers. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for this? How's he gonna oversee this law? I read that on 7 March the Dutch Data Protection Authority indicated that it took measures at two certified youth care institutions after research to ensure that the personal data processed by the youth protection agencies are accurate and accurate. In the past, the institutions had not sufficiently documented how the personal data should be registered. For example, there were no working methods for the so-called contact journalists, in which contacts with aid workers, parents and young people were established. Nor was it always clear whether it was "hard", factual data, or "soft" data, i.e. opinions, impressions and suspicions. Finally, a standard method was missing, including displaying the origin of information, keeping information up-to-date and marking inaccuracies. The new practices, the Dutch Data Protection Authority concludes, have been sufficiently developed and ensure the correct and accurate recording of personal data. This brings to an end the infringement which has already been detected. How does the Secretary of State share these positive improvements, so that other youth aid institutions can benefit from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u34	We have arrived at the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has requested a suspension of 15 minutes due to the large number of questions raised by this bill. So I'll suspend the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u35	I see the Secretary of State has arrived again and has a whole package with him. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u36	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input. After there has been a lead time around this bill, the examination still takes place relatively quickly after the fourth letter of amendment, for which thanks. It seems to me appropriate to divide my contribution into a number of issues raised by various groups: the Youth Act and privacy, the College building healthcare institutions and Fokus. In addition, a number of more specific questions have been asked, which I would like to answer afterwards. First of all, privacy. As far as we are concerned, the legislative proposal improves the legal form of data processing under the Youth Act. The amendment of the rules for the processing of personal data under the Youth Act originates from the letter of 16 March 2015 of the Personal Data Protection College, currently called the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The College considered that the Youth Act did not provide for an explicit provision on the provision of personal data by the youth aid provider for the purposes of financial settlement and control of claims. At the time, following consultation with the College in the Veegwet VWS 2015, a new delegation provision was included in the second letter of amendment, Article 74.0 of the Youth Act, which lays more explicitly the basis for providing that data. At the time, there was a meeting with the college. The College has said that the ministerial regime is satisfactory, under the condition that a legal basis is created for it. That legal basis is now ahead of us. In view of some of the questions that have already been raised on this point, we will also explicitly request the opinion of the Personal Data Authority on the ministerial arrangement that is still to be worked out under this law. So how'd it go? There's been a letter from the Personal Data Protection College. The college agreed with the temporary scheme, but did not agree that it had no legal basis. That legal basis is now being arranged. Moreover, we will still be submitting the ministerial arrangements to be worked out. In addition to a question from Mrs van der Burg, I would point out that this is important, also for the purpose of material control, because it will indeed be necessary if the ministerial rules to be applied under Article 7.4.0 of the Youth Act come into force. Partly for this reason, I think it is important that the Collecting Act VWS 2016 can enter into force quickly. A large number of questions have been asked on this subject, most of them by Mrs Bergkamp. With her questions, I'll start. When will the ministerial regulation be sent to the Lower House? I expect the scheme to be submitted for consultation in April to client organisations, interbranch organisations, professional associations and the VNG. At the same time, I will send the draft regulation to the Chamber. After processing the reactions of the above mentioned bodies and the reactions of the Chamber, I will therefore also submit the concept to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The scheme lays down rules on which personal data may be reported in the declaration. These rules differ, as I say in response to a question from Mrs Bergkamp, indeed by type of youth aid to be declared. The declaration of youth-ggz is therefore subject to stricter rules than the declaration of other youth aid. In addition, separate rules apply for the declaration of child protection measures and youth rehabilitation. Mrs Bergkamp rightly pointed out that there is a difference. In addition, the scheme contains a large number of rules to allow a careful procedure for material control and the fight against fraud. Mrs. Agema pointed that out as well. Only when all other possibilities for control are exhausted can a municipality have someone look into the data of a provider. That does indeed mean "not providing, unless." By the way, these rules look like two drops of water to the rules of the Health Insurance Act, the Long-Term Care Act and the Market Organisation Health Act. There's no material difference between them. In this context, Mrs Bergkamp asked me to say that I will ask the VNG to ask the municipalities to put on the website how the personal data of young people is handled. I'd be happy to say so. The following more general point was also raised in the Chamber. How do we ensure that personal data provided to municipalities by people with a medical profession remain secret? Mr Van Gerven also asked for this. How do I promote, as Mrs Bergkamp said, an active attitude to protecting the privacy of young people? I stress that the protection of privacy is incredibly important. In the ggz it may be a bit more sensitive, especially for the person concerned, than in other areas of health care. Nevertheless, the issue of material control and monitoring of what is happening naturally also applies to the youth-ggz. I would point out that municipal officials have a duty of confidentiality. This is regulated by the General Administrative Law Act, the Personal Data Protection Act and the Civil Service Act. An official who violates his or her obligation of professional secrecy shall be called upon to do so. The Minister for Security and Justice also ensures that municipal officials are aware of what they should keep secret. I would point out that we have done a great deal of work. We have developed a number of factsheets and special programmes are given in privacy. The VNG has written a manual on how to deal with privacy in the social domain. The VNG has set up a website. In addition, privacy is one of the main themes in the VNG's Social Domain Information Project and the providers together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u37	The Secretary of State just indicated that data protection might be a little more sensitive to youth-ggz. I can imagine something about medical professional secrecy. But, although in a very different way, is it not also very sensitive to parents whose children are under supervision? That is also a very sensitive issue for parents. Aren't we doing these parents a little short by saying that maybe that's less sensitive? Can the Secretary of State reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u38	Mrs Van der Burg has a point there. There may be a lot more talk about it, but I think she is right that it is just as sensitive in the area she is describing. I think privacy in general is a sensitive subject. One finds that things that are sensitive to the patient and are more difficult to assess are perhaps extra sensitive, which does not mean that it cannot be experienced as sensitive in other areas for other reasons. I very much agree with Mrs van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u39	I thank the Secretary of State for this concession. I think it is important that we treat the privacy of parents who are perhaps less mature or less mature about these kinds of issues, also in a serious way. In that respect, I welcome this concession. I hope that we share this with each other more often, because I think this is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u40	The Secretary of State states that officials are covered by confidentiality. We know that, and that's fine, but if we look at how privacy is being handled at the moment, I've been talking about the inspection report in Amsterdam, which guarantees that data is not handled properly. That is precisely why D66 has said: limit the number of people and limit some open standards in the law to prevent this from going wrong. We know from the practice that this goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u41	In general, I cannot oppose that. Mrs Bergkamp is right about that, because as you have more open standards, you also have to rely more on the judgment of those who go about it and so you have more reason for discussion. It is also true, however, that when we discuss the amendments, there may be a number of things that can be dealt with fairly tightly, such as which diagnostic data you may or may not require for the purpose of physical control or for the payment of data, but that access is often arranged in very different ways. Are the professionals on the district team or the healthcare provider? What arrangements has the municipality made with the healthcare providers that require healthcare providers to exchange information? It is a bit dependent on the organisation of the access which appointments you have to make exactly. So there is not so much an open standard, but that you have to make privacy agreements that are more focused on the way it is organised. That makes it difficult to say in general: arrange it this way. There are differences in the way access is organised. It differs which professionals should exchange data with each other at what time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u42	So you're gonna have to take care of things more nationally. Ever since this law was passed, D66 has been calling for attention to privacy and not to break medical confidentiality so easily. We have tabled motions and we have had debates and AO's, but we are still getting reports saying that this is not properly arranged. The Secretary of State will therefore have to make greater efforts in this debate to convince the D66 Group that this is now well organised. We have serious doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u43	I think there are two aspects to this. Firstly, according to the request of the Personal Data Authority, a legal basis is now being created. The second is that in the ministerial regulation we will be discussing what the ins and outs of that regulation should be and where the limits are. We have a discussion on which areas of child care which privacy agreements should be made in which areas. I try to tell Mrs Bergkamp: what you have to and can arrange, you have to do. We do that now in the physical controls..... but where the exchange of privacy depends on the way professionals organize access, for example, you cannot, in general, regulate nationwide what the privacy agreements are. If the youth support provider has to make arrangements about a family together with the general practitioner and the professional in the district team, you can't generally say that it's settled when you make these arrangements. Because of the specific organisation and the professionals involved, you will have to make really good privacy agreements. That is where our efforts are focused. The Minister of Security and Justice and I say to municipalities: determine how you want to organise it, then make sure that there is a good privacy protocol, then make agreements with the professionals that everyone can keep and also disclose how you deal with that privacy data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u44	Mrs Bergkamp, I give you room for a brief question. I would point out, however, that the Secretary of State has clearly indicated in which blocks he is going to reply. I would like to insist that we do not ask all the questions before the answers to all the questions have come. This seems to me to be an issue on which answers will still be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u45	I think that is a real point. Then I'll hold off on my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u46	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u47	I agree with the Secretary of State's comment on professional secrecy. How does that relate to medical professional secrecy? In short: how absolute is one compared to the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u48	It may sound different, but it is incredibly strict. Even if an official violates his obligation of professional secrecy, which occasionally occurs in the case of a professional official, sanctions, reprimands and, where appropriate, further disciplinary measures shall apply. The confidentiality obligation is there for a reason. It is governed by the General Administrative Law Act and also by a number of other laws. We can therefore trust that the laws we have made in this respect on legal action are as strong and as strong as the rules on medical professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u49	Isn't medical professional secrecy more absolute because of the nature of the problem? Cases dealt with by officials often have less impact. Of course they're of practical importance, but you can't even it out, can you? Because this is often a medical issue, you should take another look at which people you let do this. Shouldn't you have the process of accountability and the collection of data necessary for the financial settlement of cases organised by medical professionals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u50	No, it's both necessary. It is necessary to ensure that medical professional secrecy is monitored by professionals as a cerberus and that they do so and ensure that people feel safe. At the same time, professionals declare to the institution that has to pay, for example the municipality. It is very logical that the municipality has the opportunity to carry out checks, as they are common throughout the care. Moreover, I am very keen that the information examined by officials should be covered by confidentiality. I know enough about this to say that confidentiality by officials must be of equal value to medical professional secrecy. It is of a different nature and it is another matter, but the obligation of confidentiality is the obligation of confidentiality. This is perhaps a nice little bridge to the question of what is the basis of the breach of medical professional secrecy in the Youth Act and whether this breach is necessary; Mrs Bergkamp explicitly asked for it. That is indeed in Article 7.4.0. The nuance is that this interruption is necessary to the extent that the municipalities actually need these data. What municipalities really need is what we've just talked about for a while now, different from municipality to municipality or may vary from municipality to municipality. It differs how access to youth care is regulated or how youth aid is contracted. Lumpsum funding requires less data than the declaration per product delivered. I shall come back to that in the assessment of the amendment. The intention is that we should not provide the data that are not necessary for the processing of personal data, but only for the physical control. There's an opt-out. The GGZ aid provider should point this out to the young or his parents, as Mrs Bergkamp herself pointed out. Moreover, I expect that the client organisations will also point out to their supporters this possibility. I do not have figures on the extent to which the opt-out scheme is being used, but the scheme is simply legally anchored. Mrs Bergkamp also asked whether I can promise that the physical check will not be started until after the ministerial regulation under 7.4.0 is in place. That's right. Material control is only possible if it is a legal basis and is regulated by 7.4.0. In addition, the basics are needed, which is regulated by the ministerial regulation. It is true that with regard to administrative burdens, I will come back to this later on, the proliferation of products will be included in the ministerial regime. It did exist in 2015. It is already much less in 2016, the number of product groups has been greatly reduced after all kinds of conversations have taken place between municipalities and healthcare providers. As part of the procurement of youth aid, we aim to reduce the number of products. They're working hard on that. I told you before, you have to distinguish between different types of youth aid. One more reason to use all the forces to reduce different types of products.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u51	Is this also included in the letter on the regulatory pressure that comes to the Chamber before 1 May? This is one of the ways to tackle the regulatory burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u52	As far as I am concerned, because one of the elements of the approach is that we are going to work with the sectors to see what can actually be reduced. The buyers and the people at the healthcare providers who have the responsibility must determine with each other what is necessary and what is not necessary, which we can therefore delete. At least part of that approach will be to involve the practical way of people who have to do it in the removal of all kinds of unnecessary rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u53	Can the Secretary of State also promise that the outcome will be explicitly taken into account? I think the knife cuts on multiple sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u54	Making purchasing agreements in a different way is also something Mrs Van der Burg explicitly asked in her contribution "incredible" can help you buy in another way and thus justify it in a different way. That's very important. Everyone is in favour of the step from classical PxQ funding to other types of agreements. In fact, agreements have been made with the sector to apply DBs, but at the same time we think that we should do a little bit of this, even if it is only because of the administrative burden. I would like to take that with me and I am going to, but I do not dare to express many expectations about the extent to which it will succeed. There is still a lot of discussion going on about how to define output. There are very good examples, Mrs van der Burg pointed that out, and you can see that there can be considerable relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u55	That is precisely why I asked my question. I believe that there can be considerable relief in terms of workload, but also in terms of the people themselves who have to fill out all kinds of forms and for the municipalities that are going to contract. The Secretary of State says we might have to think of something else for the DB structure. The Secretary of State is well aware that I have already called for a different way of financing from funding through dpc's in the course of the Youth Act. I'd really like it if he'd go into it more firmly and try to commit himself to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u56	That's what's gonna happen. However, we have discussed how municipalities and healthcare providers interact with each other to ensure that the transition is a bit smooth. In this context, the agreement has been made, even at the request of the ggz sector itself, to continue for a while with the DBs, which have just been introduced, in order to avoid the need for a turnaround in the transitional phase. However, I see that interest in this is growing, and that is also an answer to Mrs Ypma's impatience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u57	I'm gonna go help the Secretary of State a little bit. My impatience is even greater if possible. As you know, this has been a favourite subject for a long time. A number of regions are now finding that more and better youth assistance is being provided for the same euro by reducing the administrative burden. Why does the Secretary of State not call together a number of such regions and a number of health care providers who see the effects to convince the other regions, so that one is enthusiastic about each other rather than looking like a scared rabbit in the headlights 'because it's all so complicated'? That's a lot easier than working with that PxQ model. Let's step over that threshold. May I invite the Secretary of State to do so in April with these sectors, so that we can be informed in the May letter about the regions that are convinced to take that step?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u58	Mrs Van der Burg is now making her impatience very concrete. I would like to say to her that I am going to sit around the table with these regions and those branches to highlight the good examples that exist and to say to others: look, it is possible. As far as I am concerned, this can also be part of the approach to regulatory pressure, together with the sectors. There are already some good, very promising examples of this. I agree with Mrs van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u59	Thank you. I assume that will then take place in April, so that we can be informed in the May letter. I would also mention the example of Oude IJsselstreek, which is now heading in that direction, because it sees that it is stuck in the current way of buying in. Perhaps it is a very good idea to bring out the healthcare provider who plays an important role there as an example to convince other regions as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u60	Yes, we will. I promise Mrs van der Burg that I will do my best to see what I can write on this in the May letter. I'm just trying to manage the expectations a little bit. In my view, we are very united in the idea of doing this where it can be done. I'll get to the diagnostics on the declarations. The current legislative proposal should only provide diagnostic data in the context of specialised youth-ggz, and this is only about the main diagnostic group. Besides, there's the opt-out, like I said. The scheme for the youth ggz therefore indeed looks like two drops of water to that of the adult ggz. I agree with Mrs Bergkamp that you cannot say automatically: it is so arranged, so it is fantastic. In view of the recent discussion, it is very good to see whether that is still necessary and whether you may not be able to work in another way. We will. It is true that it was agreed with industry organisations and the ggz at the time that until 2018 it will be declared as declared for adults. In the meantime, we'll look for a way to set it up in a different way. On the basis of this agreement, the programmes and administrative processes have been set up in the current way. The deal was: until 2018. This is without prejudice to the fact that I already want to talk to the VNG and the providers to speed up that process, especially if this entails administrative burden relief. So we now have a situation similar to that in the adult ggz, as I say in reply to Mrs Keijzer, who specifically asked for it, but at the same time we are considering whether a different approach and accelerations are possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u61	It is important, because I have tabled an amendment on this. So I'm looking at exactly what the Secretary of State says about that. The Secretary of State actually states that there will be no changes until 2018, because agreements have been made on this subject. Nevertheless, I feel room for the Secretary of State, because he says he doesn't know whether the diagnostic information is as useful as he is going to be. Can the Secretary of State for D66 specify exactly what he means by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u62	I shall come back to that in particular later on in the assessment of the amendments. I think it's nice to see if we can do it another way. If it is possible with other forms of procurement and other ways of financing, we must not fail to do so. Perhaps then it is even possible not to base yourself on precise diagnostic data at all. Mrs Bergkamp herself has set the example of light, medium or heavy care and perhaps there are other possibilities. I note that there is a great deal of attention to that now. In the current situation, we have to work with the agreements and systems that we now have, but all parties are prepared to do so. I cannot say at the moment that we should do that, because then we will only increase the burden. If we are patient with each other, perhaps it will come as far as Mrs Bergkamp asks in her amendments. However, I do not think it is right to force another system at the moment, which can then give rise to all kinds of administrative problems. But again, I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u63	I have one comment to make on this, because of course we want to review the overall package, as well as the space that the Secretary of State may or may not offer. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State that it's his ambition not to put diagnostic information on the invoice. I don't want us to just look at that with each other until 2018. I want it to be a real ambition. It is about sensitive information for young people and the system is currently not waterproof. All kinds of reports show that privacy is not properly regulated in the way municipalities handle files. I would therefore like to hear from this Secretary of State the ambition that he is going to make an effort to see if the diagnostic information can be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u64	I have that ambition. Mrs Bergkamp notes that I have a comment and hesitation. That is because it is said that we need to move to a different approach, for example, which is more focused on output or light, medium or heavy. I think that's good, but we need to see if that's gonna work. I am also familiar with this discussion from the neighbourhood care and from the rest of the care, in which we say that we want to get rid of the PxQ funding. I'll take community nursing as an example. I notice that everyone there is still struggling incredibly with the question: how are we going to do other than an hour's bill? In the ggz sector, the question of what the product palette is has been discussed for years. I remember the discussion we had at the time about the Health Insurance Act. After a lot of effort was said then that we could do the dbc's this way. This has been done with great difficulty. Now we're saying that if we really want it to be different, we have to do it differently. I very much agree with that and I have the ambition to do so. If there's no need to put the diagnosis on it, we shouldn't. At the same time, I want us to see the new shoes before we throw away the old shoes. Ms Bergkamp asked to what extent a privacy impact assessment has taken place under the Youth Act. All information pathways are provided with a privacy by design approach, such as the One-time Data Transfer Youth, the Policy Information Youth and the Collective Command Router Provision. Privacy impact assessments have been carried out for these topics and information exchange in the social domain. Furthermore, the privacy impact assessments were sent to the Chamber: the one on the social domain on 12 November, the one on the policy information on 14 April, the one on the one on the data transfer on 13 November and the one on CORV specifically on youth protection on 5 December 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u65	There was a misunderstanding. I'm interested in the privacy impact assessment of this law. The above is all clear. We've all been able to see and read that. The point is that by means of a motion, among other things from the PvdA, it has been agreed that there is a privacy impact assessment under a law that affects privacy, or that the Secretary of State has to explain why he does not do a privacy impact assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u66	Because most privacy impact assessments, apart from the specific topics, have been carried out on the broad social domain. Those privacy impact assessments were also sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u67	That's not an answer to the question. I believe it has been agreed that every law that involves privacy to a significant extent will have a privacy impact assessment. In my opinion, privacy is the main theme in everyone's input tonight. If there is no privacy impact assessment, the Secretary of State must state why he does not do so in that case. So referring to another law does not make much sense in this case. I am fine with getting a more focused response to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u68	As far as I can remember, privacy impact assessments have been requested and delivered in a number of specific areas. However, we also agreed at the time that we would look not only at the Youth Act, but also at a number of other laws. They're all about the information processing by the municipalities. At that time, the total social domain privacy impact assessments were carried out. A part of this was the Youth Act, but also the Wmo, for example. This is also necessary because it is a matter of privacy processing by the municipalities. They are required to implement a number of laws requiring specific attention to the processing of data by the municipalities in a number of laws. That is what we have done with each other. Mrs Keijzer asked whether the Youth Act respected professional secrecy sufficiently or whether the violence was being perpetrated. On the contrary, professional secrecy is not violated, as the repair concerns, inter alia, a reference to Article 7.3.11 (4) of the Youth Act, which lays down the obligation to provide information to the head of the household. That obligation of information is not laid down in the Medical Treatment Agreement Act, but should also apply to providers of medical treatment. The proposed amendment lays down that this applies to medical treatment as well. This is nothing new, since it was already regulated in the WFD and in the revision of the child protection measures adopted by the legislator prior to the Youth Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u69	That wasn't my question. My question was whether this was not already included in the bill that the Chamber voted for this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u70	No, because the law on the revision of child protection adopted an amendment by the SP and the CDA, which regulates that professionals have an obligation to do so. It is not regulated by the law that has just been passed. It's governed by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u71	We have had this whole discussion with the relevant legislative proposal. But maybe I'm wrong. It's possible. In any case, is the second question I have asked: is it not wise to include in the ministerial regulation in the fifth paragraph that this information which is to be provided and which violates medical professional secrecy is really necessary only in the light of the under-supervisory situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u72	Perhaps we can be even more precise in the second term, but I believe that this law is precisely under what conditions this obligation of information applies and therefore not under what conditions, namely those in which health professionals perform medical treatment. We have already discussed the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. The requirement was: rule a legal basis. Furthermore, we will ask for specific advice on the ministerial arrangements that are coming. That was my block on privacy in the Youth Act. A number of questions have been asked about the lifting of the College building care institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u73	There's still a question about the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u74	I think I still miss a few answers, for example on the final settlement. I also asked for a comparison of this opt-out scheme with the one in the adult ggz. How does that work out there? Surely it cannot be that everyone will ask for an opt-out if it is unlimited, and then we will not be able to check the legality and the invoicing in any way? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State if there are any restrictions on that. How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u75	I'm just gonna get this out of my head. The health care provider must then prove in another way that the care has been provided to the satisfaction of the municipality that has to pay the case. We really shouldn't have any trouble. You should not have discussions about the legality of the care provided. That will have to be arranged by the healthcare provider in a different way. I thought I'd already given this answer. I don't have any figures on how to use the opt-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u76	Can't they also be given in second term? I understand that this arrangement has been going on in the adult ggz for a long time. I can therefore imagine that there has been experience of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u77	I don't think so, but I'd like to check this out for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u78	This is being investigated. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u79	Then I come to the lifting of the College Building care institutions. This is a special point in itself, because the Collecting Act VWS 2016 that is now before us is not about whether the construction regime WTZi has been the right choice. This choice was made by the Court in 2007 and 2008 respectively. After an extensive discussion in the Chamber, the decision was taken to create another building regime. I have not received any signals that that would have been a very bad choice. The SP may think otherwise, but that is again, because we took that decision with each other in 2007 and 2008 respectively. I would dare to draw another conclusion, which is that we came from a situation in which the emphasis was very strong on building stones. You filed an application, got it, and then a new office was built. Now we say that the focus should be on care and the stones should be useful. If Mr Van Gerven were to challenge me to a substantive discussion about the advantages and disadvantages of the construction regime, my point would be that we now pay more attention to the care rather than the stones than at the time of the construction regime. I am afraid I have challenged Mr Van Gerven a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u80	I'm afraid so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u81	The capital charge in total was 4,4 billion in 2008. I assume the State Secretary also did his homework. That has now come to 1.1 billion. So the capital burden has simply increased and not decreased, but we do see a number of excesses. I mentioned two hospitals. I don't necessarily care if we reclaim it. It'll be all done in two years. Then all the institutions will be completely risky. I remind the secretary of state that you shouldn't throw away old shoes until you get good new ones. Wouldn't it be wise to leave the College building care institutions for a while? We understand it's only a small organization, but there's still something left. Shouldn't we start by evaluating it properly and then look at who's right in two years' time and put it off against what happens if you do maintain some kind of building regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u82	To stick to the metaphor of old and new shoes, we decided in 2007-2008 on a change in the construction regime. Meanwhile we have bought new shoes, three marathons, and four more New York ones, and then we say: maybe those new shoes weren't good either. It is mainly about looking to the future, when it comes to the role of stones in care. As far as I'm concerned, it's getting even smaller than it is now. It is not a question of whether or not the construction regime should have been abolished at the time and what that means for the College building care institutions. Mr Van Gerven is right. The CBZ is now an organisation that no longer has a legal function. In fact, only the watch money is paid out and managed. I do not think it is right to maintain a college that no longer has legal functions. It is very good to look at the capacity for in-house housing, I say to Mrs Keijzer. This is already happening through many other initiatives, for example by zorgopdekaart.nl. There is a map of the capacity and demand per region. The activities of the Marnix Norder chasing team, which also said that the central regulation is not so much the problem, provide a regional map of supply and demand. I see much more in that than in maintaining a college that no longer has a legal function and could not contribute to the understanding that regional needs should be formed about how supply, supply and capacity relate to each other. I am already giving away my opinion of the amendment, so that Mr Van Gerven can get used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u83	I didn't expect anything else from this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u84	Well, I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u85	He defends the policy he co-created at the time, albeit in other positions. There's no need to cancel the college. If you leave it quiet in the law, the world won't die. I called it the Medical Spectrum Twente. We note that this has incurred large capital costs and has built hugely and that 350 full-time employees now have to leave in order to be able to pay these capital costs. My question is whether things would have turned out differently in a construction in which the College of Buildings should have judged care institutions. We don't know that. I would like to see an evaluation on this. The new system could then be placed alongside a more collectively organised and secured system. What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u86	Eight or nine years after we abolished the construction regime, I do not think it would be very useful to look again at the consequences. We have learned to integrate capital costs into healthcare costs, so that we don't just focus on building stones. We are now saying that the stones should be useful to the care. There are very careful choices to be made. I do not think it is right to maintain a college which no longer has legal functions, but which only manages watch money. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Voortman spoke about the Fokus residences. Maybe it's good to reflect on where we stand with adl/Fokus. I get what she's after. We may come to a different conclusion, but that way we can see if we have the same approach. At the time, we made the Long-Term Care Act and the Wmo. In addition, as Mrs Voortman said, the assumption was that it should be possible for everyone to make their own choices. Whether you live at home or in an institution, you need to be able to take care of yourself. With the measures we have taken in the Wmo and the Wlz, namely the modular package at home and the complete package at home, it will be much more possible to arrange tailor-made care, even for those who have their own direction. There was then discussion in the Chamber as to whether the Fokus concept would survive if we did so and made it possible for everyone; I would just say it simply. The Fokus concept is so bound that care and housing are brought together, that it is the question of whether it is sufficiently viable if you make it possible for everyone. At that time, the Chamber asked to ensure, at least on the left or right, that the existing concept can remain intact. We then continued the situation under the AWBZ, which is a subsidy scheme that makes it possible for that target group to provide care in social housing. If Fokus is able to deliver the care, it is therefore quite possible in the current situation with the subsidy scheme in the Wmo and the Wlz. This actually happens in a number of cases; I believe there are two cases, where it is settled in one case and the other is under discussion. Also in the current situation, the Fokus concept can be applied to a home added using the Long-Term Care Act and the Wmo. That's very nice, because it doesn't only apply to Fokus but to everyone. So we now have the nice situation that we maintain the Fokus concept at the time and that we have made it possible in general terms in the various laws that everyone can better arrange their own care. Fokus may be one of the providers for this. Actually, that seems very good to me. If we find bottlenecks in the future, we can talk about this, but I think that Fokus can implement the Fokus concept in the clustered setting in accordance with the old law and function as a provider using the laws and possibilities we now have. I am in favour of maintaining that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u87	If this were the situation in practice, it would indeed be settled. The problem is that people are sometimes contradicted by the Law on long-term care that it only applies to social housing. That is why I have tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u88	Then you use the grant scheme for adl. That doesn't mean that without that subsidy scheme you can't also just arrange care in the home situation using the Wmo and the Long-Term Care Act. It's whether you want to reason the other way around and say: if you want to take care at home in your own direction, you have to do so through the subsidy scheme that was created for Fokus. You can also say: no, that is possible for everyone, wherever he lives, but then he must take advantage of the possibilities offered by the Wmo and the Law of Long-Term Care. Someone can make arrangements with any provider, including Fokus. For the clustered setting of Fokus we have made a subsidy scheme, but it would be strange to say that it can only be done under that subsidy scheme. You want to make it possible for anyone who would like to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u89	This is about adl care, which can now only be hired in a cluster of social rental homes, even if the healthcare provider says: you live 80 meters away and I would like to provide that care. In these situations too, people can be told: that is not allowed by the Long-Term Care Act. That is where the law is an obstacle to a practice that we both apparently claim to pursue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u90	We're talking about a grant scheme under the law. The specific subsidy scheme for adl states that it is only possible to deliver for the clustered social housing. That doesn't change the fact that someone in an apartment who also wants to have care arranged in a good way at home can organise combined care on the basis of the Wmo and the Wlz, perhaps by Fokus. That's what happened in one case. That can then simply be arranged on other grounds. That is a good thing, because that means that it is not only in that ADL cluster concept, but perhaps also in many other concepts that we don't know yet, that it is possible to arrange care at home. I know very good examples of the complete package at home, too little known, in which really incredibly good care under the Long-Term Care Act is provided in the home situation, not only by Fokus, but also by other providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u91	I have no problem with it when people from the Wmo or the Wlz want to take care of it themselves. However, people who had already organised their care because they lived in a cluster house should also be able to say: I would like to organise the care in the same way as I had already arranged it. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u92	Yes, but that's actually a bit of a different case, because then you move from the clustered concept to another home and then the question arises as to whether you can continue with that care. Then a consultation must take place, in this case between Fokus and the resident, on whether, for example, the distance is not an obstacle to doing so, and whether the response times will not become too long. I know of a case in which that was the case, and in which it eventually led to agreements between Fokus and the person who went to another home, in order to be able to arrange that care in the same way. However, this depends a bit on the distance that arises. But I know a case where it's just like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u93	Mr President, my name is also under the amendment, which is why I am interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u94	I know. That's why I'm giving you room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u95	I think this is a little weird, though. I've said it here before. The Secretary of State can always tell very nicely how solutions are realized in specific cases. That's wonderful, but we're writing laws for the situations where that doesn't work. Such a situation describes Mrs Voortman. Someone lives nearby, everything is fine and everyone says: we want it arranged in the Wlz through that subsidy scheme. Now the subsidy scheme says that this cannot be done, because it is not a social housing unit. Then you have to want to make sure it's okay, don't you? Then you don't say to people: go talk, or look at the municipality? Then it must be possible for it to be covered by the same regulation. Because that is what the amendment sees as.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u96	But then Mrs Keijzer herself will have to explain why this subsidy scheme should be abandoned. For everyone who wants to receive care at home, we have arranged that you can use the Wmo and the Wlz. In the case in which people actually want to arrange it from the Fokus concept, that depends very much on whether that is possible at all, because it happens in a clustered setting and we have made that subsidy scheme for it. Otherwise, we would actually have the opposite situation. The Chamber said to me at the time: do not question the viability of Fokus and regulate that subsidy scheme. Then why should we say: even if you want to regulate it in a very different way, you have to use that subsidy scheme? I'd think that was a little crazy, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u97	That's simple, because we're talking about people with severe limitations. If they arrived at the municipality, it would scare the apic acid. That is why we have included a separate subsidy scheme in the Wlz for this group at all. In the old situation, it wasn't tied to such a social housing unit. So why now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u98	What Mrs Keijzer is saying is really wrong. The discussion we had with each other was as follows: in the Fokus concept, care and living are linked in such a way that at that time you have to arrange for those two things to remain connected, otherwise the viability of the concept will be called into question, which we did not want with each other. It should also be arranged that someone with heavy care or light care can use the facilities that the municipality has, or the Wlz. That is precisely why we have a duty of care in both laws. Then I come to Mr Van Gerven, who had a question about replacing the term 'professional standard' with 'quality standard'. I know the discussion with the SP in a broad sense about how we look at quality standards. I think that quality is a sum of three different subjects. Firstly, it is about whether the content of the care is good, and that is mainly up to the professionals. Secondly, it is about whether the organisation of care is good: that is something of the healthcare providers. Thirdly, it is a question of whether the patient is adequately served, so the patient's treatment. The assessment of this is mainly for the patients. So I think that quality is a sum of what professionals bring in, what healthcare providers bring in, and what clients and patients bring in. I think it's good for that reason not to talk about a professional standard, but about a quality standard. This is also in line with the commitment made by the Minister in the Upper Chamber. I now come to a number of specific questions that have been asked. Mr Van Gerven asked about the 15-year retention period for files. In my opinion, Mrs Bergkamp has made it quite clear in her speech that it has two sides. There are indeed many clients who state that their file needs to be kept for a long time so that they can always rely on it. There are also clients who are very keen to destroy their files so that they do not always have to carry that past with them. I expect the bill on the retention period of patient files to be posted on the Internet in mid-April for an internet consultation. There is therefore a bit in the debate on whether the retention period should be 15 years or 20 years. The same discussion is taking place with regard to youth aid dossiers. I think it would be good to wait for that Internet consultation. Then we can look again at what the field thinks and make a responsible decision with each other on that basis. Then we can base the bill on the extension of the retention period on that internet consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u99	I see you're all used to interrupting a lot at every point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u100	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u101	That's just something I notice; it's an observation. I would like to end this debate at around 10 a.m. I will give Mr Van Gerven the opportunity to ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u102	That's it with the sweeping laws and the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u103	The official title is collectible law, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u104	Yeah, the collecting law, formerly the sweeping law. I'll be brief. I had asked the Secretary of State if he was prepared to prevent files being destroyed until the law has been dealt with and a decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u105	I think there is now an extension of the retention period. He's 15 years old now. We are not yet in a situation where files are being destroyed. I would like to include Mrs Bergkamp's suggestion in the legislative proposal, namely whether it is not primarily up to the client to decide what should happen to his file. So I would like to include the question of whether we should take further measures in the interim in order to preserve it in the assessment of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u106	I don't think that's right. It's been 15 years. If we went to 20 years, it would be annoying to have files destroyed over the next few months. By the way, let us stay away from its content. The request is only to agree now with all the institutions that the files should be kept until the debate is held in order and a decision has been taken. It would be very unfortunate if, in the meantime, files had been destroyed if an extension were to come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u107	I understand Mr Van Gerven in such a way that he says that it would be weird if we were to extend it, that the fifteen-year deadline had just passed and that there would be no more of those few files. That seems to me to be a logical question to include in my discussion with the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u109	Then there is the use of the Bsn and the Donor Data Act, on which Mrs Bergkamp asked a question. The question was whether something is going to expire or whether only new data are being recorded. The bsn is an additional data for the Donor Data Foundation Artificial Fertilisation and is necessary to establish that the personal data provided are actually from the donor. Mrs Bergkamp is right that it is an extra point. Mrs Keijzer asked whether a decision by mandate on behalf of the College on youth aid was a decision against which objections or appeals could be lodged. We have said several times in Parliament's debate that this mandating possibility exists and that a decision taken by the mandateee within the limits of jurisdiction is indeed a decision taken by the mandateee. This is stated in Article 10 (2) of the General Administrative Law Act. Moreover, municipalities as administrative bodies already have a great deal of experience in the system of the General Law on Administrative Law and in its implementation it is indeed important to make it clear that it is a decision against which objections and appeals are possible. I agree with Mrs Keijzer. This is already covered by the General Administrative Law Act. The same applies to the Youth Act, and this should therefore also be stated in the decision. Mrs Van der Burg asked whether the lack of contracted providers in other EU countries, the European zone or Switzerland would jeopardise the right to care. To my taste, that right to care does not come into behavior. What the bill regulates is that the conditions laid down in the contracted care will lapse, because it is not useful in the case of contracted care to lay down conditions such as prior authorisation, because the contract is already in fact already established that the health insurance provider is apparently confident that that care is of good quality. In addition, I would like to point out that the expiry of those conditions in the case of contracted care is separate from the fact that an insured person within those countries is entitled to reimbursement of the care from a non-contracted provider. An insured person is entitled under EU law to reimbursement of extra-mural care, even if there is no contract between the foreign provider and the Wlz exporter. For this reason, I believe that the lack of contracted providers does not jeopardise the right to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u110	I'd like it to be precise, because it says there'd be contracted care. I can imagine practical difficulties in achieving this, while in the case of uncontracted care, it says that it is very limited in terms of manageability and controllability. How does that reply of the Secretary of State relate to that remark in the legislative text or to the explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u111	This is about whether there is a need to impose further conditions on contracted care. Those conditions are not necessary. If the healthcare provider has arranged something with a foreign provider, you can assume that the health insurance company says it's okay. Then you've already checked. Moreover, there is also a right to care if there is no contract with an existing provider. I think this is an explanation of the fact that we don't see any problems if you drop the terms of contracted care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u112	I understand that the first two articles lapse. I understand that very well. My point was that it stated that uncontracted care was subject to strict conditions, because the controllability and controllability were otherwise at stake. That makes sense to me, too. When the Secretary of State says that there is wide access, I wonder how that relates to each other. That is not quite clear to me. Is there any way to get a closer look at whether this is going well or whether there are problems? Can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u113	Actually, I'm taking the following thesis. If there is contracted care by the insurer abroad, the insurer has no problem with that, because he has already done the check. If there is a right to insured care under EU law, the health insurance provider should simply check the account. There are also rules in the policy on the extent to which compensation is paid. I say from the outset that this is usually to the level that is common in the Netherlands. It has therefore already been arranged through the contract of the insurer himself that he can see to it. Otherwise, the policy conditions state what maximum compensation you will receive if you exercise your right to contracted care abroad. Perhaps it would be a good idea to return to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u114	I'd love to. I do want to be sure that this is all right, also because in the answers to questions from the SP Group we had also asked questions at the beginning of the investigation that there was not one contracted foreign healthcare provider. Apparently, the contracted portion was nil or very small. Now they are dependent on the uncontracted part, which the text stated was limited because of its controllability and manageability. Hence these questions as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u115	So there are two aspects. The first is whether health insurance companies are now saying that they are going to meet their contractual obligations abroad or not. That is not very necessary in practice, because it is not very common. The second aspect: when it occurs and you go to a non-contracted provider, the policy conditions always determine the maximum level to which you will be reimbursed for the costs, which means that there are actually sufficient control mechanisms. That's why we think it's possible. I come to Mrs Ypma's question about the report from the Personal Data Authority on the working methods of two certified institutions. I would like to mention a few points. I think this proves to me, too, that it is also good to see that the control by the Personal Data Authority is effective. That's very nice. These are infringements identified by the Dutch Data Protection Authority in 2014. We have taken sufficient measures in the institutions to ensure that the data are accurate and accurate. I think it is indeed a good idea to look at what we can learn from this and what other institutions have to do with it. By the way, I have understood from the Ministry of Security and Justice that the certified institutions are covered by that domain, which is also explicitly addressed in the consultations that this Ministry conducts with Youth Care Netherlands. I shall now come to the assessment of the amendments. I just need to see if I can get all the numbers straight. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 17 by Mrs Bergkamp. In the debate I have already indicated that I am very sympathetic to the idea, but you can already feel it coming! We now have a system that looks like two drops of water like that in the adult-ggz. A number of agreements have been made on the use of DBs, but we are also looking with ambition to see if we can come to other forms and thoughts there. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. However, I agree that I am going to talk to the sector to see if we can quickly find other ways to limit the exchange of diagnostic data. This also applies mutatis mutandis to the Bergkamp amendment in respect of item No. 18. I have already indicated that it is a sympathetic proposal, but at the moment it is not feasible. The proposal is that 'at least' should lapse, but if it expires, I must immediately draw up rules for the provision of personal data in connection with access to youth assistance, in the context of its financing and in the context of control and the fight against fraud. For those last two topics, I can do it. I do. For the first thing, we need to look at how access is developing. On this basis, we can assess whether specific regulations are needed. For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion on that point. However, I am prepared to consider whether it is possible to make rules for the provision of personal data in case of access after we have a better view of the best practices and the forms of access that have arisen. Until then, I would like the ministerial regulation on the processing of personal data in connection with the funding and for formal and material control. Then we'll see if further rules are needed for access.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u116	You were mistakenly speaking of a motion, but it is the amendment on item No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u117	Does the Secretary of State say in response to my amendment to item No. 18 that the deletion of "at least" when it comes to the ministerial regime could refer to the sections on fraud and material control, but not to the section on access? Is that the nuance the Secretary of State indicates?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u118	If it expires, I'm gonna have to make rules. That's what I have to do for all these subjects. I can do that now for control and fraud, but not yet for access.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u119	I'll consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u120	I come to the amendment to item No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u121	The amendment in part No. 19 has been replaced by the Voortman/Keijzer amendment to item No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u122	So that is the amendment to item No. 22 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u123	Only the signature has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u124	Okay. We have just debated that amendment. I believe that, in addition to the Fokus subsidy scheme, it is possible to create care at home in other homes without having to use the subsidy scheme. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. Then we come to the amendment to item No. 21. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u125	First of all, there is the Van Gerven/Leijten amendment to part No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u126	Mr Van Gerven described that amendment as a good one. I also think it is a creative amendment, but nine years after the removal of the construction regime, I think it is wise to end the work of the college, as it no longer has a legal function. That is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u127	We've already had a big change of plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u128	Then we come to the Bergkamp amendment on item No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u129	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u130	First, I need to understand exactly what is meant. It says: If personal data are collected and you want to use them afterwards, it must be anonymised. But would that not mean that data may be used for purposes other than those for which they were provided? It has already been arranged that you should not simply use the data you receive for physical control for other purposes. I believe that this point has already been settled. If you want to use data for certain policy purposes, they must be anonymised, otherwise they would not have been provided for those policy purposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u131	I'll give it a try. What the Secretary of State says is true when it comes to data exchange. Of course, you may not use that data for other purposes, but in this case it is important that the data you receive should always be anonymized at a higher level of aggregation. That's something else, isn't it? So it's an extra security check.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u132	But that doesn't always apply to data you need for the payment of the declaration, because then you need to know who got the help and who you're making the payment for. You can't anonymize that. If you want to use that data further for other policy purposes, they need to be anonymized, but they have to be collected for the purpose for which you want to use them anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u133	I always hear a souffleuse behind me, which is in complete agreement with the Secretary of State, which I understand, but I still want to see if we can tighten up on this. If you receive personal data, you want to be able to check it, because otherwise you do not know from whom something comes. We agree on that. The question then arises, however, as to what happens to these data. We all know that this information is being exchanged over and over again. The amendment provides that this is not allowed. If the data are used for other purposes, they must always be anonymised. In today's practice, this is not happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u134	This concerns the question of whether an error is made in practice, against which action should be taken if necessary, or whether data may be used anonymously. I would find this a step too far in advance. The basis is: information that you collect for a particular purpose, you cannot use for another purpose. If you do, you have to anonymize the information for policy information. If there is an exchange with persons for whom this information is not intended, action must be taken against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u135	Finally, Mr President. You usually say that, but I'll give you a hand. Where does the law state that data must be anonymized once they are used for other purposes? I don't see that in the law. We have discussed this with privacy experts, who say that it is really important to settle this properly in the law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u136	Maybe we can say something about it in the second term, but I assume that data provided for purpose a should not be used for other purposes. In fact, the Law on the Central Bureau of Statistics already regulates that. If you want to use policy information data, they need to be anonymized. If personal information is needed, it must already be anonymised. It's in the CBS Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u137	This brings us to the end of the Secretary of State's term. We will proceed directly to the second term of the Chamber. The fact that much has already been discussed will benefit the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u138	Mr. Chairman. Today we have discussed privacy and medical confidentiality in particular. The Secretary of State has made a number of commitments. We are very pleased that he will enter into consultation with the VNG in order to ensure that there is on every site how data is handled. We consider it very important for parents, children and young people that this is transparent and ask the Secretary of State when he will return to the Chamber. The ministerial arrangement will be sent to the Chamber in the short term. It's good to hear that there's going to be a breakdown between the different youth aid units. As long as there is no ministerial arrangement, according to the Secretary of State, there will be no material control. We ask him to inform the Chamber about the moment that material control is started and about the information about it to the people. The letter on the regulatory pressure will be sent to the Chamber before 1 April. It will also address the proliferation of products.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u139	That letter will be sent to the Chamber before 1 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u140	You're sharp as ever, Mr. Chairman. It is important that we not only get a trial agreement, but also a real solution. I would find it disappointing if we received a letter on regulatory pressure and then we had to talk to each other. I hope that we will also hear some results. D66 considers it important for municipalities to be able to do their work, to exercise control, but it is important that there are also limits to privacy and medical confidentiality. We have had an intermezzo on the amendment to item No. 17 of D66 on diagnostic information. On this point, we are convinced that you should not interfere with current agreements. That is why we are withdrawing the Amendment No 2. 17 in. Instead, we are tabling a motion because it is important for D66 to clarify the subject. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the exchange of diagnostic data between youth aid providers, prevention providers, certified institutions, the Children's Protection Board and certified behavioral scientists on the one hand and municipalities on the other is undesirable;]] [[Whereas diagnostic data will be used until 2018;]] [[considers it undesirable for sensitive data, such as diagnostic data, to reach municipalities;]] [[Considers that the diagnostic data are not necessary for the processing of a declaration by municipalities and that alternative methods can also be chosen, e.g. using general data on the intensity of a treatment (light, medium, heavy) and its duration;]] [[calls on the Government to actively work on an alternative to diagnostic data and to inform the Court in spring 2017, so that an alternative can be worked out from 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34191-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u141	Is the intention of the motion that the auxiliary form be communicated with the municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u142	It's not D66 about the treatment. I think you're gonna need it to run a check. With us, it's really about the diagnosis. We think you should do everything you can not put that kind of information on an invoice. We don't think you need to be able to control that. It is also not used in the basic ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u143	We share the point that the dbc structure is not appropriate. There is a difference between the diagnosis and the help form provided. A municipality should be able to control the form of assistance provided. Diagnosing is something else. It's got to be a professional who's been studying for that. I'm sure you can check the aid form for a civil servant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u144	I agree with Mrs Ypma. That's where we find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u145	I'm just gonna look for the controllability. I am not a fan of all diagnoses and products, but I do have the controllability. We also have this system in the adult-ggz. What does Mrs Bergkamp think about that? Apparently, that's where it works. Why does she distance herself from the Youth Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u146	There has been a great deal of discussion in the adult-ggz. It's not like everyone's applauding this system right now. I therefore welcome the fact that the Secretary of State is talking to the sector to find an alternative. I also asked him whether he had ambition in that, and that was the case. It is also not used in the basic ggz. I actually want to ask the question back, but I will not, because then we will have a long debate. It's not necessary in the basic ggz either. Then why in the specialist ggz? We say: get off that now, it is privacy-sensitive information that is not being handled properly at the moment. That is our ambition and we have shared it with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u147	Thank you for this explanation. I understand that it is intended that checks can be carried out in one way or another, but that other forms may be sought. That's clear. Does it also mean that Mrs Bergkamp supports that we should send as much as possible to social outcomes? Then a lot of these kinds of problems are solved automatically. Does she support that, too? I think she supported that motion at the time, but I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u148	It is of course very nice to establish outcomes with each other. If that's possible, that's good. I do point out to the VVD and PvdA that it is very difficult to determine outcomes. It's not that it's easy and you can realize that for all kinds of help. I don't wear pink glasses anymore. Wherever it is possible, it is fine to do so, but I would like to draw attention to realism on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u149	It's special to get blamed for wearing pink glasses. I've never heard that before. I'm generally very realistic. People always say it's so complicated, but I don't agree with that at all. I think it's just a matter of: go do it. If you're just gonna do it, you're gonna find it's a lot easier than the 140,000 product codes that they came up with at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u150	We are not going to have a new debate on this now. I would like to thank Mrs Bergkamp very much for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u151	I'm not done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u152	Oh, actually, that's what I was assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u153	Yes, you may have hoped, but I'd like to finish my story. Two of the D66 amendments were not really welcomed by the Secretary of State. My group regrets that, also because this concerns a number of open standards in the legislation. We have tried to tighten it up. My group will look at how this all relates to each other. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the privacy impact assessment. I found the Secretary of State's reply to this question unsatisfactory. The point is that there is just a privacy impact assessment. That's the intention of the motion. This must certainly be done in the case of a law in which privacy plays a very important role. I should therefore like to draw your attention to this. In my view, the Secretary of State would make another attempt in his second term to get closer to one another as far as my amendment is concerned. I'm looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u154	I'll leave it at one time, Mr. Chairman. I have now received the text of the motion. I wonder why Mrs Bergkamp chooses ambition for spring 2017. It is now April 2016. Shouldn't we speed this up a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u155	Look, I'm glad. I share Mrs Ypma's ambition. If the Secretary of State also thinks it could be brought forward, we're definitely gonna change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u156	That is a question for the Secretary of State. I must also mention the withdrawal of the amendment officially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u157	Mr. Chairman. It's not customary for me to stand here in the chair with a cell phone in my hand. But it's like the devil's playing with it. The Secretary of State says it's great with the construction regime. He loves it all. He says we've had that for eight years, so what is the SP talking about? He says, "I'm doing great." I've just read a message on NU.nl The message is from 21.18 hours, so really hot off the needle with the title: Centre for addiction care Victas declared bankrupt. It is more common with liberalisation in the care that an organisation is declared bankrupt. In recent years, we have already experienced the necessary bankruptcies. The problem with Victas, however, is the high cost of real estate. In 2012, the healthcare institution moved into a new building in the center of Utrecht et cetera, et cetera. Under the old regime that would not have been possible. That's what I'd like to tell the Secretary of State. Previously, these capital charges were collectively covered. Through the Building College, this was also assessed collectively. The Secretary of State wears pink glasses when he says it's all going so well. Maybe he can take off those glasses. I have already said in my first term that capital costs are just as high as, if not higher than in the past. I'd like to have that reported anyway. I'll come back to the retention period for those files. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the retention period for youth care files has been chosen to correspond to the time limit for keeping medical records;]] [[noting that both the De Winter Committee and the Samson Committee in its recommendations on extending the retention period of files;]] [[Whereas in youth care, much more than in the care sector, the development of the person plays a role, which may lead to a different need over the years in relation to the desire to see the file;]] [[Whereas the Government is preparing a legislative proposal extending the retention period;]] [[calls on the Government to temporarily suspend the destruction of youth care files until new laws and regulations have been adopted by both chambers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34191-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u158	Of course I listened to the Secretary of State very carefully. He says he is going to speak to the institutions, but we want to see a real commitment to results on this point. That is why I tabled my motion. I hope the Secretary of State will take over the motion. It seems to be possible these days, but I don't know if this can be done with SP-motions. It would perhaps be a novelty if the Secretary of State took over our motion so that it would not have to be put to the vote in the Chamber. That would be a nice end to this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u159	I'm not gonna joke about this right now. I note that Mrs Voortman does not wish to make use of her second term. I call Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u160	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his first-term response. He said he was willing to send the ministerial arrangement governing the processing of privacy-sensitive data to the Chamber, but not through an official suspension procedure. That is not enough for the CDA and D66 groups. That is why we will be tabling an amendment which includes a slight pending procedure. Next, a comment on the College building care institutions. The Secretary of State referred to zorgopdekaart.nl. I think that's a little skinny. We're short tens of thousands of adapted care homes. In the past we had the College building care institutions, which had a role in determining the capacity of inpatient places. No one's gonna keep an eye on that anymore. In doing so, we must also wait and see what the waiting lists will look like when the bridge care is introduced, on the basis of which people will only have to accept the house offered thirteen weeks after the creation of an in-house indication. Against this background, the answer of the Secretary of State for the CDA Group is very lean. We have considered submitting an amendment which stipulates that the College of Buildings will at least continue to exist legally, because we think that we will need that college in a number of years' time. For the moment, however, I think it is sufficient to consider whether we can agree to the amendment tabled by the SP Group. I was just standing by the interrupting microphone to point out to the Secretary of State that, in my view, there is almost the same amendment to the Youth Act in this bill as in the bill passed this afternoon. I have only checked again, because before I say that I was wrong here, I want to be sure. But I don't think I'm wrong at all. Under Article II (A) of the draft law, which was discussed this afternoon under Section 34279, a third paragraph of Article 7.3.1 has been amended, including a reference to a new Article 7.3.17. The present bill under Article III (E) refers only to the part of that Article 7.3.1, third paragraph, of Article 7.3.11, fourth and fifth paragraphs. You're either a lawyer or you're not! The present law comes later, so it could be that Article 7.3.17 will disappear again. I don't think the First Chamber likes this kind of sloppy, so maybe it's good to send a letter of amendment. In any event, I am now discussing the content of the fifth paragraph, so that the ordinary people too understand what I am talking about, and that there is a ministerial arrangement on the basis of which rules are laid down concerning the information that may be provided and the way in which. There is nothing about breaking medical confidentiality. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is possible to lay down detailed rules for the exchange of information referred to in paragraph 4 of Article 7.3.11 of the Youth Act, including the exchange of information by professionals covered by the WGBO;]] [[Notes that this has not yet been done to ensure the legal basis for the exchange of medical data only as necessary in the light of the under-supervisory situation;]] [[calls on the Government to include this in the Ministerial Arrangement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34191-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u161	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions and for the commitment. I look forward to the meeting with the municipalities, the branches, the professionals and the client organisations to encourage buying, steering and accountability on the basis of social outcomes. I am also looking forward to the feedback of the results of the State Secretary in the May letter on administrative burdens. I also think this is such an important point because the report by the Children's Ombudsman shows that parents and children are becoming more dissatisfied with the assistance, because they do not know what to expect. You solve that par excellence with this way of accountability, buying and steering. My questions about the process with the Dutch Data Protection Authority have not yet been answered by the Secretary of State. I had asked whether, in the run-up to the advice on the Youth Act, this authority's advice might have been discarded or not included in its entirety. I myself find it undesirable to have to be repaired afterwards. So I just want an insight into this process. I myself have been very careful in dealing with the Youth Act. I haven't been able to find out, but I just want to make sure. I would also like to know how we can prevent this in the future; perhaps the Secretary of State would like to do so in consultation with the Personal Data Authority. Especially when it comes to ICT systems, it is extremely real and costly to have to repair afterwards, apart from the misery for parents and children. That is why my group has always been in favour of privacy by design. This means that such an authority might be able to anticipate this in a different way. I'd like to get a feedback from the Secretary of State on this. Finally, the ministerial arrangement. I understand that the final regulation will at least ensure that checks can be carried out. We can't do that in the temporary arrangement. However, I am not entirely satisfied with the time when we can look forward to this arrangement, given that there is no control or very limited control at the moment. I think that's pretty serious. In April the consultation is, but what is the time course? I also assume that we will be fully informed when the opt-out is introduced. The question was whether this was necessary. If this system is introduced, how will it be ensured that the possibilities for combating fraud and control remain? I do not think it is justified that public funds should be spent, but that there should be no control over them. I do not think that is justified by all those people who contribute to this. We want to keep it that way in the interests of all those parents and children, but also of all those older people who need care and support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u162	That brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Secretary of State says he needs one minute to study the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u163	We begin with the second-term response from the Secretary of State, only after I have said that Mrs Ypma has waived her second term and that we were indeed done with that. That's so neat to say. There are three motions for resolutions before us and, as far as I know, three questions are also open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u164	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bergkamp asked a number of questions about when the Chamber will be informed about the ministerial arrangement. I had already indicated in the debate that the ministerial arrangement would be available in mid-April, as it could be consulted. This means that the Chamber will be informed at the same time. I expect the ministerial arrangement to go to the Personal Data Authority in June, too, a little in response to Mrs Van der Burg's question to make sure that there is no misunderstanding that both the field and the Chamber and the Personal Data Authority have all been able to comment on the ministerial arrangement. The Chamber is, of course, the last to do so, after having taken note of all the opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u165	My question was about material control. The Secretary of State indicated that first the ministerial arrangement comes and then the material control. We fully agree with that order, but the question is whether the Chamber can be informed when that material control starts and also in what way people are informed about it. Those were my questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u166	I think so. Let me remind you that material control can therefore start when the ministerial arrangement is in place. This means that we will have to look at how and by whom people will be informed about this. I'll let the Chamber know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u167	The ministerial arrangement will be sent to the Dutch Data Protection Authority in June. When will she be determined? I can see that this will go over the summer and I'm a little worried about that, given that we can't control anything now. I'm not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u168	It is not that nothing is being checked, because the declarations must of course be looked at and then we look with the material control how you do a number of additional checks on them. However, I do see Mrs van der Burg's objection. For my part, therefore, I would like to make every effort to speed up that process, but I cannot, of course, predict how long the Personal Data Authority would like to do about the ministerial arrangement. For my part, I will send the scheme to the Authority as soon as possible. Let us hope that she can also advise very quickly. I also expect this, because the comments of the Dutch Data Protection Authority have already been incorporated into the legislative proposal in the preliminary draft law, also in response to the questions of the Court of Justice. I expect and hope that the Authority will also be able to give rapid advice on the ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u169	Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to do everything in his power to ensure that, for example, the Chamber can deal with this ministerial arrangement before the summer recess. That seems important to me, given a bit of an open end, namely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u170	In any case, let me say that it will not be up to me. I will do my utmost to send it to the Personal Data Authority as soon as possible. Given the preliminaries, I expect she could do that soon. Let's try to do that, but I really need to make a reservation on the Authority's activities. I shall return to Mrs Bergkamp's motion in a moment. Mr Van Gerven and I may differ on the advantages and disadvantages of the construction regime. I am not dealing here with an individual case of bankruptcy, of which I do not know the causes. It seems to me to be particularly annoying to the employees and clients involved. I note, however, that one of the reasons for looking at the construction regime in a different way at the time was that it was precisely this method that led to a large number of institutions building new buildings and other buildings, sometimes larger buildings, without weighing up whether they were so sensible in terms of costs and in relation to capital costs and healthcare costs. I think both systems have something to say. There's no such thing as a good system. I note, however, that it was also a point at the time that the institutions were very busy building and less concerned. This is, of course, an integral consideration which, as far as I am concerned, should be in the interests of care. Mr Van Gerven will agree with me. The comments on the construction regime also apply to questions put by Mrs Keijzer. I would point out that, together with Mr Blok, we are looking at what is needed to ensure at local and regional level that living and care and home-care combinations are possible in many different forms. This means that supply and demand must be identified at regional level. There are also a number of activities for this and they will follow, in view of the plan of approach to housing-care combinations, which I am working on together with my colleague Mr Blok. I cannot help but mention Mrs Keijzer's comment on the law that has just been passed and which the CDA has voted against. In my view, there was an amendment from D66 to extend precisely that thirteen-week period. The CDA voted against it. The CDA did vote in favour of the law that provided for the thirteen-week deadline. So I see that it may be something else; at least I have a different perception of this than Mrs Keijzer put it. I'm going into the motions now. In the motion in part No. 23 is asked to actively work on an alternative to the diagnostic data. I have expressed my ambition on that point. I'm going to see if we understand each other. Diagnosis data may be needed for access, in the sense that the professional must assess which assistance someone is eligible for. Whether these professionals work with the municipality or a healthcare provider, they should of course be able to exchange those diagnostic data when determining what help is needed. That's different from the municipal processing that the motion is about. It is being asked whether alternatives can be found and whether they can be done with ambition. If I interpret the motion correctly, I think we understand each other and I would like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u171	Opinion on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 23 is: Judgment Room. I saw Mrs Bergkamp nodding. Maybe it's useful if she says something in the microphone after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u172	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, you're absolutely right. A question was asked following an interruption debate with Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u173	About the term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u174	Exactly. Until spring 2017 it will take a very long time. Can we turn that into the end of 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u175	Thanks to Mrs Ypma, I will try.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u176	Then we look forward to the amended motion, as far as that deadline is concerned. The opinion is: Judgement Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u177	With regard to the motion on No. I actually share Mr Van Gerven's view, but I have a formal point to make, namely that there is now a retention period. The discussion is about whether we are going to extend that deadline. If I say now that we are temporarily suspending this destruction until there is new legislation and regulation, I am actually in breach of current legislation. I would ask Mr Van Gerven to withdraw his motion, with the remark that I agree with him. I hear from the audience shouting "take over," but I can't. The current law sets a deadline for destruction and I cannot temporarily suspend it until there is a new law. I think I can make very good agreements with the sector on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u178	I'm holding the motion, because the Secretary of State is kind of meeting it. I get his point, of course. Could the Secretary of State inform us of the outcome of his consultations with the institutions on this matter? When can we expect that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u179	Perhaps it is an idea to include that in the progress report on the Youth Act. I think it's gonna show up before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u180	That's before the law enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u181	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u182	All right, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u183	At the request of Mr Van Gerven, I propose his motion (34191, No. 24). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u184	In the motion in part No. 25 is asked for the legal guarantee the principle that only medical data necessary in the light of the under-supervisory situation may be exchanged. I thought we had the necessary exchange of views in the debate. This was also the subject of an amendment to the cooperation protocols at the time. I consider it unnecessary to make further regulations applicable to this matter and advise against the motion. I have one more amendment, I believe in item No. 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u185	That's right, that's the amendment to point No. 26 of Mr Keijzer and Mr Bergkamp concerning a veil, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u186	Of course, I have no objection in principle to such a request. I do have a comment. The veil can only take place after consultation of client organisations after the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. It'll take some time together. We may then run the risk that we may not be able to make it for the purchase of the care in 2017. Hence my proposal to send the version that goes to the interbranch organisations for consultation also to the Chamber. Perhaps we could agree that we could debate this if the Chamber had any comments on it. In that case, although it is not formal, the Court is still able to comment on it. If that is a good compromise, this amendment might not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u187	We do not want to frustrate that this is happening in a good way. This bill still has to go to the Supreme Court, where it has to be adopted. Is this actually intervening with the purchase periods, or is this wallpaper an existing right at the time the purchase takes place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u188	The ministerial arrangement regulates the conditions to be met, including for the new situation. Everyone can take note of it, but we can only act formally when there is a ministerial arrangement. I understand the Court's wish that Members should have something to say about the arrangement at an early stage. Hence my proposal to send it to the Chamber at the same time as the consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u189	I think it would be wiser now for us to discuss the matter. If we withdraw the amendment, we will do so before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u190	That also makes it clear to the other Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u191	Finally, I have a very technical answer to Mrs Keijzer on the two Youth Law provisions. I promise her to include her question explicitly in the further process. Maybe I can tell her about this outside this meeting. If the law containing these two provisions is made law, then indeed the relevant amendment to this law will no longer have to enter into force. This means that these two routes are, as it were, interspersed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u192	If only in the Royal Decree determining the entry into force, this will be excluded, otherwise you will delete 7.3.17 again. The reason I raised this is that I want to ensure that there is a technically sound law in the end. I think that has gotten through to the Secretary of State and his official support. I am confident that something sensible will be done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u193	I would like to thank Mrs Keijzer for her legal insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u194	Apparently there is a question that is stubbornly not answered, namely the question about the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The question was how that process went and how we can prevent it in the future. I do not want to see each other, but I want to prevent it from happening as much as possible on these subjects as necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u195	Let me get this straight. The commentary on the temporary ministerial arrangement in the otherwise broadly positive opinion of at the time the Personal Data Protection College was still processed. Public comments were then requested on Article 7.4.0 of the Youth Act. The final ministerial arrangement we are going to make will again be explicitly submitted to the Personal Data Authority. In this way the comments on the temporary scheme, the law and the final scheme have been processed. By the way, I agree with Mrs Van der Burg that we should not only look at the response to the rules, but that privacy by design should be the standard way of working, because then you will look at the privacy consequences much earlier in the process. We are also currently conducting this discussion with the Dutch Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u196	Thank you for this commitment. Perhaps something about this can also be reported in the progress report, otherwise it will remain words. Privacy by design is not something new for our group. I think it is important that this should be done with all these ICT systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u197	That is indeed what I agree with Mrs van der Burg on a rather different way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-28.u198	We have come to the end of the treatment of this collectible law. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and his officials very much. I would also, of course, like to thank Members for their contributions. The amendments and motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
