ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the reply by the initiator. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. With your permission, I shall begin immediately with an assessment of the amendments tabled. The first is the amendment to item No. 13 by Mr Ulenbelt. This amendment regulates an obligation for pension funds to accept transferred claims. I cannot see what the scope of this amendment is beyond the initiative legislative proposal. It also puts pension funds at a disadvantage if they were the only ones to take over this obligation. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u3	I will allow Mr Van Weyenberg an interruption, but I shall first look at the author of the amendment. Mr Ulenbelt has no questions, I note. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg to answer questions in the context of the assessment of his voting behaviour in relation to this amendment, but I would ask him not to take long reflections and to watch over the repetition of his actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u4	My question is whether the Secretary of State will also comment on this amendment. I understand that Mrs Lodders cannot see it, but I am still looking and I hope that the Secretary of State will also say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u5	We all do that in one round. The Secretary of State advises. In the public gallery, I say that the Secretary of State is present on behalf of the cabinet in this debate, but that the initiator of the Chamber is concerned with the opinions on the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u6	Absolutely, you say it quite correctly, but in this case I attach particular importance to the reaction of the Secretary of State because I cannot oversee this and neither do the initiator. Mrs Lodders will now comment on the amendment I have tabled. For the sake of order, I would like to point out that an amended amendment has now been tabled which has been co-signed by Mrs Vermeij and Mr Omtzigt. The change from the original amendment, which Mrs Lodders now has in front of her, is that the original amendment states that the high-low structures should be introduced, whereas this has changed in the amended amendment so that it can be done. So a will-determination becomes a possibility. The amended amendment has just been tabled, but I thought it appropriate to mention this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u7	This relates to the amendment on item No. 15 which is replaced by an amended amendment. We will hear from the initiator whether she thinks this explanatory statement is clear enough to give an opinion on the amendment. After these obstacles, I give the floor again to the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u8	First of all, I come to the amendment to item No. 14 by Mrs De Vries in which an opt-out variant of a collective variable pension is proposed. In the case of a variable pension offered collectively, the employer plays an important role. I understand Mrs De Vries' idea that a certain mass is needed to make a collective variant work. This was not part of the initiative proposal, of course because it does not contain a collective element. I would like to leave this amendment to the House. However, I would like to point out with care that if the individual variant is chosen for a variable pension, the default is still a fixed pension and, as far as I am concerned, if the amendment were to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u9	This relates to the amendment on item No. 14?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u10	That's right. I shall continue with the amendment on item No. 15. In the meantime, therefore, an amended amendment has been tabled which has been co-signed by Mrs Vermeij and Mr Omtzigt. This amendment concerns projection interest rates. Many questions have been asked on this subject and a number of interrupting debates have been held. The amendment proposes that the projection rate for both variants, both the individual variant and the collective variant, be brought to risk-free interest rates. I can say a great deal about this, but I have heard the debate in the first term and the contribution of the Chamber in the second period. I would actually like to propose, unless the authors would very much like to put the amendment to the vote, to accept the amendment. It's consistent with the original bill. We have made a choice to merge the legislative proposal as it stands, but given the broad wish of this Chamber, I would like to accept the amendment. In doing so, I hope to have answered a large number of questions indirectly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u11	This is possible under Rule 100 if none of the Members present in the Chamber opposes accepting the amendment. That is the case, unless Mr Omtzigt throws soot in the food.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u12	No, I don't want to throw any soot at all, but there are three options to take over on the table. That is Mr Van Weyenberg's original amendment, the amended amendment that is still being tabled and my amendment. There are very subtle differences between them. I ask for the legal history of which of the three is taken over. If that is Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment, I will withdraw my amendment immediately; so that is not the point, but I would like to know exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u13	This is a legitimate and careful question from Mr Omtzigt. As far as I am concerned, that is the new amendment that is still being tabled, with the three signatories, with the addition of Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u14	The can-determine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u15	Yes. I don't have the new number yet. So I can't report that. Perhaps it would be a good idea to formalise this at the end of the speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u16	We will monitor that from here too. The amendment with the possibility clause has been accepted. I understand that this has withdrawn Mr Omtzigt's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u17	Then I come to the Van Weyenberg amendment to item No. 16. The aim of this amendment is to extend shopping law so that shopping can always take place. I understand Mr Van Weyenberg's wish, but the legislative proposal focuses on the possibility that everyone can make a choice between a fixed or variable pension. A broader shopping right belongs in my view to the broad pension discussion. I would advise against accepting this amendment. The law of shopping as it is now incorporated into the law helps people to choose both a variable and a fixed variant. I say to Mr Omtzigt that I do not want to impose an obligation on performers to offer both variants. It is not my preference to require an executive by law to offer a particular product at the time when an performer wants to offer only one variant. Then I think it's more important that people can shop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u18	Very thoughtful but determined, Mr Omtzigt walks towards the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u19	The question Mrs Lodders raised was actually Mrs Vermeij's question. The question I asked was a slightly different one. If you only offer the fixed benefit as a pension fund, as a participant in that pension fund you are entitled to purchase a variable benefit somewhere else, but if you choose as a pension fund to offer only the variable benefit, you do not have a default option because your own pension fund does not offer it. What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u20	That question will be dealt with at the time of the answer, but I can report it immediately. In this case, the pension administrator will continue to invest the capital risk-free. When no choice is made, when it is relevant to the investments, the capital becomes risk-free; at least, the phasing-out will take place. At the time when there is no choice at the pension entry date or when the fixed pension would expire due to default, the pension administrator is obliged to invest the capital risk-free. And with that, it's actually a fixed pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u21	I would like to take a look at the letter we received in the letter of amendment (34255, No. 11) which contains almost a whole new law, so let me just say for a moment. There's page 3 under "default is fixed pension" the following. "Participants with a contribution scheme must therefore consciously and explicitly opt for a risk variable pension. If not, the pension holder must pay a permanent pension for the person concerned, or if the performer does not offer a permanent pension................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If there isn't, then this is kind of a mandatory time to hand it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u22	This is a mandatory time if the participant makes the choice. However, it is also possible that the pension administrator cannot find contact with the participant. At that time, the pension administrator is obliged to invest the capital risk-free.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u23	In both cases that has been clarified for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u24	The amendment in part No. 17 has been revoked. I shall now turn to the various questions. A lot of questions have been asked. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I'll go through them. They may not all be grouped equally well. Mr Ulenbelt asked if I would not withdraw the letter of amendment and go back to the old proposal. The pension is already dependent on the return. That was the point Mr Ulenbelt made in his speech. There was an explicit request, including from Mr Ulenbelt, for both legislative proposals to be brought together. I therefore believe that Mr Ulenbelt fully understands that I will not withdraw the letter of amendment. Mr Omtzigt pointed out that a large number of changes had been made to the own-initiative proposal and asked why the title had been kept intact. The title has been changed, namely in the Improved Premium Scheme Act. The two legislative proposals complement each other. Of course, the original initiative proposal did not contain the collective variant, which is highly desirable. Mrs De Vries spoke about bank savings, possibly supplemented by the longevity risk at the benefit stage. That is one of the possibilities that could be discussed. In one of the investigations carried out by the Secretary of State, attention has been paid to these possibilities. However, the impact that was now before us offered more perspective. Of course, Mrs De Vries is always free to make a motion on this or to come back to it at a later date. Then I'll go into spreading windfalls and setbacks. Mrs De Vries asked whether windfalls and setbacks would be made unconditional. That's the case. The five-year deadline will be explicitly discussed at the time of distribution. Mrs De Vries also said that the letter of amendment refers to the explanatory memorandum to the government's legislative proposal, while that bill is not dealt with. She asked whether these references were going well. The law has been filed and the documents remain. That can also be referred to. Mr Ulenbelt expressed his concern about the moment of choice. He said a decision must be made at the age of 45. He asked if all that's gonna work out. In fact, this has already been said enough in an interrupting debate. Participants shall be properly informed. The operator must be informed in a balanced manner. This means that he has to share both the advantages and the disadvantages with a participant. Several scenarios are presented. If the participant does not dare, or if a participant cannot oversee it, he can always choose the fixed variant. That's why I think the default for the individual variant is so important; then a participant can never be surprised. There's gonna be an evaluation. An evaluation clause has been included in the law. I think this is one of the important elements, precisely in order to see if the default works in a good way. First of all, let us take a cautious step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u25	I'm gonna interrupt you for a second. We have a public gallery, which is constantly being updated. Not all people know what a default is. Perhaps you could explain that word. Now that I have the floor, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the amendment with the designation and the generous signature, which has just been mentioned, has received number 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u26	In addition to that, I would like to say once again that, as the initiator, I am in favour of the amendment on item No. 18 take over. It is therefore part of the bill. I hope I say it that well, Mr. Chairman. "Default" means that when participants do not make a choice, as it were, a choice is made for them. That is called "default" in very nice Dutch version, to which I am quite rightly addressed by the President. Mr Krol asked whether a participant could always choose between an individual or a collective contract. Yes, as a participant, you decide whether to join a collective. Once you're in a collective, of course you can't get out. That's what you choose. That's the consequence. Questions have been asked about the General Measure of Governance. The Secretary of State will deal with this later. The question is, in particular, whether it is being put forward. Mr Omtzigt asked whether a unit allowance should not be maintained. A benefit in units can still be paid, even in the manner described by Mr Omtzigt. However, there are several ways. That is precisely what is so great about this bill: practitioners have more room to offer a variable pension within the legal framework. A payment in units can be made quickly, because it is an existing product. Mrs Vermeij has asked about communication, because it would be more important than ever. She called the concepts "fair" and "clear." I very much agree with Mrs Vermeij. I think we are also talking about pension communication in this house at regular intervals. I also think that a number of steps have been taken in the Pension Communication Act. A balanced communication is very important. A number of new provisions have also been added to the present legislative proposal. They shall ensure that the participant is informed in a balanced manner. They also guarantee the duty of care for the performer. The duty of care ensures that the performer aligns his work with the individual. So it's not: big steps, quick home. The individual is indeed being looked at, and that is, I think, very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u27	The Van Weyenberg amendment c.s. (Part No 18) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr Omtzigt of the CDA had a number of questions about shopping law. For example, he wanted to know why pension funds are not obliged to offer both fixed and variable. I just said something about that. I think it is important that everyone can make a choice between a fixed pension and a variable pension. If we want to ban products, we have to introduce obligations into the law. I am not in favour of that. Shopping law, as it is now included in the bill, at least offers people that choice. I think a broader shopping right really belongs in another discussion. Can the performer only offer a variable pension scheme in the current proposal? Yes, that's the case; hence the limited shopping right. I think I have already given sufficient consideration to what happens if people do not make a choice. What is being done for those who have bought their pension with the current low interest rate? I know that the Secretary of State will respond to that in a moment. I am confident, as I have just said in the interrupting debate, that the sector, listening to this debate and certainly to the participants in it, will take steps to do so, although, of course, a motion for a resolution can always help. In my view, I have also given sufficient consideration to the question of Mr Van Weyenberg's right to shop. Mr Krol asked whether the default chairman, sorry that I use this word again, was always best for everyone and referred to the letter from the Foundation of Labour. Probably this isn't always the best thing; the law doesn't have "improved premium scheme" in the title for nothing. The law aims at a better pension. But because this is a new product and because the level of a variable pension may vary, I think it is very important to opt for the fixed pension if people do not make a choice. An evaluation clause has also been included for a reason. I have already addressed the question of variable alone. Mr Omtzigt of the CDA has asked a number of questions about projection interest rates, but I assume that by accepting the amendment we will have sufficient clarity and clarity for the participants on this point. Mrs De Vries announced a possible motion for an inquiry. This motion has not yet been tabled. I'll wait for it with interest. The CDA asked a question about the coverage of the obligations. The question was whether it could be clarified how the liabilities are always covered if the defaulters are not immediately passed on into the pension. The liabilities are always covered by the immediate and unconditional inclusion of defaulters in future pension benefits. The distribution ensures that a fifth of this is reflected directly in the pension. The remainder of the setback is incorporated unconditionally into pensions and subsequent years. Mrs Vermeij asked what you can choose. There are a number of choices to be made individually, I say in response to that. You can opt for a fixed or variable benefit, for individual or collective, for all or part variable. These are the choices that a participant can make on the basis of the information obligations that exist. The risks, the composition of an allocation circle and the periodic fixed reduction in the benefit, especially now that the amendment is part of the law, are, of course, a number of steps that, so to speak, take place under the bonnet. It's the contracting parties who agree. So it will not be the case that each individual is presented with the calculations under the hood. I do think that it is perhaps a bit strange to say that here as initiator, where in future I may go again as spokesman on pensions. In view of the layeredness of communication, we should also keep our finger on the pulse and look closely at how that is going. I also consider the evaluation clause to be very important in this respect. After all, it's a new product. On the question of what is now on the board of the pension administrator and on the board of the participant, I think I have covered this in sufficient detail. Mr President, I believe that I have now tried to answer the questions, partly at your request, on a speed train.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u29	This was partly at the request of a number of Members, because there was a general discussion again at 3 p.m. This brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the initiator. I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mr. Chairman. Again in my role as advisor, I'd like to answer the questions that remain. Mr Van Weyenberg just asked, in the event of interruption, whether the government would also like to give an appreciation of the SP amendment. He will not be surprised that this appreciation is the same as that of the initiator. I also advise against this amendment, because the pension funds, like all the other executives, now decide whether they want to take over the implementation. The proposal to require funds, as the only type of exporter, to take over the implementation, puts them in a more unfavourable position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u31	We are now talking about Amendment No 2. 13, I presume?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u32	Exactly. Moreover, many participants have accumulated claims on more than one pension fund. Which fund will then be obliged to take over the implementation? That's a practical question. Anyway, I advise against this amendment. I have also been asked whether there are possibilities for a rematch for those who have not been able to make use of the pension cut in the period between January 2014 and July 2015, in the sense that they can still be offered a variable benefit by the performers. It is, of course, up to the contracting parties concerned to consider how an adjustment of the pension already in force is financially beneficial for those concerned and whether this is desirable. The Alliance of Insurers is currently carrying out analyses to gain insight into them. On 22 March I discussed with the insurers. I would then like to send the results of these analyses and of those consultations to the Chamber. I and, as I understand it, the Association of Insurance Companies also have a positive approach to solving the problems outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u33	I am glad that there is a discussion, but we would have liked to have seen it before the votes, because only then can we put pressure and possibly table an amendment. I know I ask a lot, but does the Secretary of State see opportunities to sit down with the insurers before Monday and send a letter to the Chamber for Monday night? Then we know whether we need to table another amendment or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u34	May I say something in the interim before the Secretary of State responds? At the end of this whole process, I intended to propose to the House that we vote tomorrow. This may lead to an order debate, but if so, it might be useful to submit Mr Omtzigt's request and the force major requested by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u35	That's quite impossible. That's not gonna work. How do we deal with this now? It is in the interests of all of us that we vote quickly. On March 22, I'll talk to the insurance companies. Then I'll let the Chamber know immediately how or what. If anything results from this, either from my side or from the side of the Chamber, then we can change it very quickly in writing and we are still well in time to do something before 1 July. I'm just gonna try and get a scratch and nail right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u36	The rams and nails are a problem. There are two options. The first option is that you do it in good consultation. The second option is that you make it a legal obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u37	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u38	We would, of course, like to have that stick of the legal obligation behind us, in order to make the first option a success. We'll have that stick, especially if the order proposal makes it, and I think there's a good reason for voting tomorrow. So I can see why that proposal is coming. Is there another legal trajectory where we could bring this in at any time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u39	I'd like to look into my department to see if we could find another vehicle, but I'm afraid that's not the case. Then I'll have to say that in all honesty. So I would really like to introduce the route I just outlined to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u40	This takes the House into consideration when determining the position in the possible still to be held order debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u41	We also have a third term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u42	Yeah, but it's gonna happen before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u43	Okay. Then I'll move on to staccato. We have already discussed the question of how we deal with the AMvB in our first term. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that I am very keen on the Omzigt procedure. I would like to consult with the pension field and the supervisor this week, so that we can see what these administrative burdens really look like. Then I would like to send the Chamber the concept AMMB very quickly. I would very much like the Chamber to respond quickly, because then we can move on to the Council of State. Then we'll have the place neatly in the Official Journal before 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u44	I very much appreciate that order if there is one further commitment, namely that the government, if the Chamber were to say by majority that it wants a change in the AMvB, would also implement that change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u45	If we get a very big difference of opinion on this, then we will find each other again, but I do not expect that to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u46	I see this as a commitment that it will then be implemented. Because there is no formal veil, it does not have to be, but I do see this as a commitment. If the House says in a majority here: we want to see this added to the AMvB, then so will the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u47	In formal terms, I must say that, of course, the government must always reserve the right to make its own assessment, but, in material terms, I cannot imagine that we would not be able to meet in such a case. I have to change this this way, but I'm taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u48	Well, that's a lucky break, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u49	Then there is a question from Mr Omtzigt about the life expectancy of a group of participants in a PPI, which may differ from the average life expectancy. I do not think Mrs Lodder has yet responded to that. According to Mr Omtzigt, this puts the PPI at a biometric risk, and it should not be because of the law. The life expectancy of participants in a PPI can, of course, differ from the average, as with funds and insurers. The specific life expectancy of the performer is taken into account in the amount of the pension. If the evolution of life expectancy in a PPI differs from the average, not the average life expectancy of all Dutch people is calculated in the pension, but the mortality result of the PPI membership group. This is the core: the PPI does not ensure the longevity risk, but the participants of the PPI collectively share this risk. I think I have answered the supplementary questions for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u50	The last answer surprises me, because even that expected return on life of the PPI may differ from the final realization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u51	What's the PPI?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u52	The contribution pension institution. That's a new vehicle that should never have come. But that's a whole different story. Mr Ulenbelt and I can talk about that again. It is a pension institution that should not take biometric risk. So she shouldn't be at risk for things like long or short life. Of course she does. It will be reduced by what the Secretary of State says. PPIs do indeed have the possibility to adjust the specific life expectancy within the circle. But that remains a life expectancy and not a realization. Between expectations and realization, both the government and pension funds still have a difference. You expect us all to be 85 on average, and then there'll be a circle where they'll all be 86. That's charged, but it happens. Does the PPI run a biometric risk or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u53	It is, of course, at the heart of the matter that the participants of the PPI collectively share that risk. So that's not what they're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u54	The PPI is at risk, because it is difficult to stop cashing out because the participants all live just a little longer than they thought. That risk is inherently borne by the PPI. If the last insured person dies too early or too late in relation to the expected date of death, does the PPI run a biometric risk at the end of its term? Then there's a biometric risk, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u55	The PPI does not ensure the longevity risk, but the participants in the PPI have a collectivity allowing them to support each other until the end of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u56	The moment that PPI drains, you have the problem that you can't share any more risk. Then it's the risk of that PPI. Then there's biometric risk in that PPI itself. Is that reasoning correct or is that reasoning incorrect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u57	I shall come back to this in my third term, because I fully follow Mr Omtzigt's approach and he is not entirely semantic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u58	I have every interest in concluding this for three hours, because then we will have a debate on the Work and Security Act. That's not unimportant either. I have a question on Mrs De Vries's amendment to item No. 14 on default position. The applicant has said: Judgement of Chamber. I explicitly ask the Secretary of State because it is precisely in this that there is a distinction with her legislative proposal. I'm sensitive to a default, though, that if you haven't chosen a standard, you get a flat-rate benefit, which is the same every year, every month. There is now an exception. How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u59	I listened very carefully to the debate. I understand very well in the first term on the part of the Chamber that the whole Chamber actually said that this fixed default is a great thing. I now see in the second term that, in the context of the amendment to that part, with opt-in and opt-out, the Chamber considers this to be an improvement. That is why the initiator and the cabinet have said to each other: we leave this amendment to the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u60	There is a need for a third term, which can start immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mr. Chairman. We have just heard about a motion on banking savings. I would like to table the next motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current legal framework for premium and capital agreements may hinder an optimal pension outcome;]] [[Considering that the Law on Improved Premium Scheme provides more opportunities to achieve a better pension;]] [[Whereas bank savings, which may be supplemented by long-term risk insurance, may also contribute to a better pension outcome during the benefit phase;]] [[calls on the government to investigate the extent to which bank savings can contribute to a better pension outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34255-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u62	In the first term we briefly discussed a motion on projection interest, a motion that will be tabled by the PvdA on our behalf. Mr Krol had announced a motion, but unfortunately he had to leave. That's why I'm filing her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u63	Can I make up for a passing? Mr Krol had asked me to report that he could not be present because of an obligation elsewhere in this house. I thank you very much for that omission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u64	The motion concerns a subject that has been discussed extensively, namely contracts and people who have already concluded a fixed contract and who would still like to participate in the present proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the extension of the legal framework for premium agreements may provide a solution for people who purchased a fixed pension benefit from 1 January 2014 to 8 July 2015 in the event of a very unfavourable rate of interest and that the pension cut was not possible during that period;]] [[invites the Government, together with the Association of Insurers, to examine whether entering into a new contract for a variable pension benefit is feasible for insurers and can be advantageous for those concerned and, where this proves to be the case, to promote the possibility of amending contracts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Krol, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Vermeij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34255-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u65	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the initiator and the Secretary of State for the reply and anyway for the initiative. I think that without this bill we would now be in this Chamber to solve the problem with the retirement cut. It remains to be seen to what extent this bill is going to solve this problem, but many people were obliged to buy a life-long benefit at 0% interest rates. We've been talking about that for years. Then it is to be praised when a Member of Parliament takes the initiative not only to deal with a motion or difficult parliamentary questions, but also to write a legislative proposal. However, we have the problem that there is an extremely complicated legislative proposal of almost twenty sides left. Fortunately, the amendment on projection interest rates has just been accepted, but whether it is easy and feasible, I have to see for a moment. I have argued in several debates on pensions for better transparency on the costs of the pension-payer. This transparency is also important in the case of a variable pension. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pension administrators should be transparent towards members about the costs they incur for the management and payment of the pension;]] [[noting that the costs are directly deducted from the assets of the participants;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly include in the lower regulation that the pension administrator ensures transparency of all costs charged to the members of the variable pension,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34255-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u66	Then I have one more question about the law of shopping. It is now clear that I am not in favour of changing the current shop law, but there seems to be one loophole left in the law. Many insurers place all their insured schemes and other schemes in an apf. That's a pension fund. If it is placed in an apf, the shopping law is completely gone and that may not be entirely the intention of the initiator. It may be able to go into this further. I am very curious to hear the answer to the PPI question. I am sympathetic to the motion that has just been tabled, but I really hope that we can get a signal before the vote. If not, my group is considering tabling an amendment tomorrow. We will also table an amendment to clarify the rules when DNB is allowed to require a PPI to be re-insured as a whole. Moreover, we have doubts as to whether the PPI should be able to implement this, but I await the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u67	I would appreciate it if we could have the reaction of the author to any amendments before the vote so that we can determine our voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u68	Let's take a quick hit. I see the performer nods yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u69	I will try to submit this in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u70	To make things even more complicated, do you need an opinion from the Secretary of State? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u71	Thank you for being so helpful. I saw the petitioner and the Secretary of State looking at each other. Maybe they can react together. That sounds fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u72	I see that yes is nodded by the Secretary of State. Let me make this clear for the Acts. Where were we? Mr De Graaf has waived his term. Then we arrived at Mrs Vermeij on behalf of the PvdA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mr. Chairman. I am just looking at the text of the motion that we have prepared. Perhaps we should amend it slightly in view of the adoption of the amendment. This is about projection efficiency. We are taking a step forward by laying down the amendment already in the law, while we do not yet have everything in our head. Nevertheless, I would argue for doing two things at once, so a level playing field in the law and at the same time looking carefully at all variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u74	You mean a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u75	A level playing field. Thank you, Mr President, thank you, thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the legislative proposal for an improved premium scheme for individual agreements involves a projection rate based on expected return and collective agreements with risk-free interest rates;]] [[Whereas this does not necessarily improve the comprehensibility and level playing field between different contracts and pension practitioners;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate the advantages and disadvantages of all possible variants of projection interest rates for individual and collective contracts, including the expected (practical) return and risk-free interest rates, on the basis of a single interest rate;]] [[invites the Government to send the results of this investigation to the Chamber by 1 May 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Vermeij and Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34255-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u76	So we still have to look at the text in the first paragraph. I thank the applicant for all her answers. It remains for me to wish her incredible success from this place in the First Chamber, across the Binnenhof. I would also like to thank the government for the answers given and for its commitment to achieving a single whole. I am very grateful to everyone for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u77	That brings us to the end of the third term of office. I understand that the applicant needs a few minutes to prepare her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mr. Chairman. One question has been asked to me and it is generally pension fund, the apf. Mr Omtzig asked if shopping law would then be gone. No, if no variable or fixed pension is offered, then there is the possibility to shop so that it can. It is actually a very simple answer, but I see Mr Omtzigt standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u79	That will not prevent Mr Omtzigt from asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u80	I must say that this Member of Parliament is learning very quickly. She knows how to explain things that are really not beautiful in a very beautiful way. As far as that is concerned, she could be in the cabinet. This is what we are talking about. In an apf you may not freely choose whether you want to go to another performer with your variable pension. It's okay to go to an insurance company. An apf is a special pension fund. It is the vehicle that insurers are now massively choosing to use their insured schemes. They can cut short. There are all kinds of nice things for the insurance companies. But is it true that the people who are in an insurance company's position as a result of this law have far less rights than those who are in a traditional insurance scheme with an insurer? If so, does the applicant consider that appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u81	If I understand correctly, Mr Omtzigt asks about the difference between insurers when a contract is transferred to an apf, a general pension fund, or becomes part of it. For a general pension fund there are other conditions and rights. I understand Mr Omtzigt's question in such a way that he wants to know whether shopping law is gone. That is true in the broad variant, because it is a general pension fund, but people who are participants can still make the choice between fixed or variable, because if either is not offered, they can choose to put it down with another performer. I see some doubts with Mr Omtzigt, but for the sake of time I should like to propose the following. Mr Omtzigt announced that he would table two more amendments. In that context, I would suggest that we also deal with this explanatory question in writing, if Mr Omtzigt agrees, of course. No further questions have been asked to me. The Secretary of State will advise on the motions because they involve a request to the cabinet. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their constructive contributions and for their commitment to further optimising the law, which I naturally refer to the amendment. Thank you very much for that. I hope we can solve the problem of the participants quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs Lodders. Then we go to the further advice of the Secretary of State in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u83	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to comment on the debate on the PPI that we had with Mr Omtzigt in our second term. The proposal provides that the Netherlands Bank may require a PPI to be insured or transferred, if necessary in connection with actuarial or business technical risks associated with the variable distribution. You could say that there is too much risk in a declining pool of participants, for example. The Netherlands Bank is in a position to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u84	Madam Secretary of State, we now have a new audience in the gallery. So PPI's up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u85	Premium pension institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u86	In doing so, the Secretary of State admits indirectly that they bear a biometric risk. So we can't carry them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u87	You know what: I am going to dig into this, because it is of course a pleasant idea that the Dutch Bank already has this guarantee. However, we have just said that we are providing a little more insight into the apf. The phenomenon of "PPI" in the context of biometrics will also be provided with some further colouring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u88	That's nice. I would also like to hear a limitation when the Dutch Bank is allowed to intervene. The now proposed law allows the Dutch Bank the freedom to require a PPI to do something at any time. The Dutch Bank must have some, but not the full policy space. If there were a description in there, it would be enlightening for the history of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u89	Perhaps we can mention a few examples; I mentioned one just now. So that's got to be doable. I'm gonna go over the motions quickly, starting with the motion in part no. 19 by Mrs De Vries on banking savings. We would like to do this research. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House's discretion. In the motion in part No. 20, also by Mrs De Vries and co-signed by Mr Krol, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Vermeij, the government is invited to "assess with the Association of Insurance Companies whether a new contract for a variable pension benefit is feasible for insurers and can be beneficial to those concerned and, if so, to promote the possibility of changing contracts." I shall also leave this motion to the House's judgement. In the motion in part No. 21 the government is invited to "enable explicitly in the lower regulation that the pension administrator ensures transparency of all costs charged to the members in connection with the variable pension." This has already been settled, because the operators must be transparent about the costs. They should include them in the annual report and publish them on their website. So we've already taken care of that. I find the thrust of the motion very sympathetic, but it is a little superfluous. I will leave her to the judgment of the Chamber, but I will look at the author, Mr Omtzigt. I'm sure he's drawing up a plan; that's how I know him. In the motion in part No. 22 the government is invited to "examine the pros and cons of all possible variants of projection interest rates for individual and collective contracts, including the expected return and risk-free interest rates, based on a single interest rate to be used." As Mrs Vermeij herself has just said, we have already taken a step forward in this respect, yet I shall also leave this motion to the House's judgement. It is good to carry out the wide-ranging research. We're doing the best we can to make it to May 1. If that doesn't work, I'll let the Chamber know. I'm out of motions. For my part, too, I would like to thank the applicant. I think that traffic with the Chamber has been very pleasant. We will also go to First Chamber together, I will again be in my role as advisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u90	I thank the Secretary of State for her advice. I thank the initiator for the initiative and wish her every success with the follow-up. I propose to the House that tomorrow we vote on the amendments and motions tabled and take a very clear look around to see if they can be accepted. Mr Van Weyenberg, if you want to say something, you should put it in the microphone, otherwise it will not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u91	That seems fine to me, but we will still have new amendments and the letter from the cabinet. I assume they are well before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u92	They will have to be there for the votes, otherwise it will not work. I said that we are going to vote on the motions and the amendments, but of course we are going to vote on the legislative proposal itself.
