ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, especially the people in the public gallery. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. It was this Secretary of State himself who said that carousel fraud is the worst form of tax fraud. It amounts to around EUR 50 billion a year across the European Union. The money that is being cheated there must be raised by the honest taxpayer. Yesterday we could see in ZEMBLA that documents were found in the caves of Bin Laden with evidence of this carousel fraud: a structure that affects the Netherlands, which affects Denmark and affects Italy. That's where VAT fraud was committed. That money was used to finance terrorism. In the Netherlands there were so-called buffer-e.g.s. The money was mainly extracted from the Italian state treasury, but was placed here out of sight of the investigative authorities, so that it could be used later. It could be used against the states themselves. Although there is no damage here, the Dutch government does not dismiss the obligation to make every effort to ensure that these criminals are convicted, here or elsewhere. That is why I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. How does he explain that ZEMBLA does find links with terrorist financing, while according to the letter we have just received, no links have been found in the completed FIOD investigations into VAT carousel fraud? Have the Tax Department, the FIOD and the Public Prosecutor's Office investigated the companies that were named as a link in the network? Have these companies been prosecuted in the Netherlands? Are the fraudsters still active? Are they, for example, carrying out carousel fraud on products other than CO trading, which is now virtually stalling? Has the Netherlands been requested by Italy or another Member State to assist in the prosecution of these criminals? Finally, is the approach of Dutch buffer-e.g. in the context of countering terrorist financing a priority of Tax Administration, FIOD and OM or is too little attention paid to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I have spoken earlier in several AOs, especially during our Presidency, about the extremely undermining effect of VAT carousel fraud. It's not only wrong where the money comes from, it's also where it's going. We have talked about this several times. I recognize the 50 billion. It is also very likely that money could go to terrorist financing in Europe. In the completed Dutch investigations, this link was not found, but I think that with Mr Omtzigt I believe that it is very likely that in general there is a relationship between VAT carousel fraud and terrorist financing. That is also being investigated. The money flows are being monitored. This was not found in the completed studies. There are also new investigations. The FIOD is currently doing eight, so eight investigations into international carousel fraud. In the field of VAT fraud in general, almost 1,000 investigations are under way at the Tax Administration. I'm sure that includes carousel fraud. There is not much I can say about ongoing investigations into specific companies. The FIOD won't let you do that either. I was just talking to the boss of the FIOD and he feels greatly hindered in his investigations when all names go over the table here. Then there is Mr Omtzigt's third question. In general, the following applies. If VAT carousel fraud, as is the case with CO certificates because of the reverse charge measures, is eliminated, then it is often very quickly switched to other products. For the CO certificates, we had the cell phones. It also happens a lot with computer parts. So we need to be permanently on top of it. The Netherlands has developed an IT tool in an international context, together with Belgium. During our Presidency, the Commission has taken on board this and now it is being rolled out in other countries. I betrayed some fanaticism in this area during the AO's, including Mr Omtzigt, because I do not think it was fast enough. To my great pleasure, that has now been smoothed out. It is certainly the case that the FIOD also investigates the facilitating companies, the buffers or the Germans, as they are also called, but certainly not just the wrong ones. The losses are the companies that cause damage to the Dutch tax authorities. However, VAT carousel fraud is always international and that is also where the FIOD is after the facilitating companies, especially there. This makes this a priority fraud both for the Tax Administration and for the FIOD as well as for the Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u4	We share the commitment of the Secretary of State and the Union, but I am afraid that no link has been found to terrorist financing in the completed investigations. Nor have I received an answer to my question as to whether Italy or another Member State has requested assistance in this particular case. We submitted this question to the Secretary of State in general consultation on 29 September, and it could have been answered in this letter. After all, these networks are not yesterday's; they are many years old. Even the Italian investigation has been going on for years. This is not the theoretical framework for whether countries should cooperate. We have here a fraud investigation which the Italians themselves say is that 1 billion has been cheated and that goes to the jihad. If there is no cooperation, my question is: when? Is there cooperation in this particular Danish-Italian case and have requests been made to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u5	Which case exactly is the case is not entirely clear. There are several international issues in the field of CO certificates. The oldest case has been triggered by the Netherlands. A FIOD study was carried out in 2009, with extensive international cooperation. The countries concerned were: Portugal, Spain, France, the UK, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands. We've worked closely together, and that case is now with the D.A.'s office. Without international cooperation, it won't work. The ICT tool is also a tool with data from different countries. Cooperation is the only way to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u6	This is the answer that scares me. I understand that the programmers of ZEMBLA have contacted the Tax Office and the FIOD. I thought it would be clear, at least as a result of the broadcast, what is the issue. I can happen to send the documents from Corriere della Sera from 2014 and from the Danish newspaper Aftenposten..... the two countries where I have lived.... to the Secretary of State. And if he is not clear on what issue, is he prepared to contact ZEMBLA and let us know in a few weeks whether in this particular case of 1 billion, with documents traceable to the caves of Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan, a request has been made to the Netherlands to cooperate and whether we are going to resolve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u7	The 2009 case is with the state's attorney's office; I can't say much about that. As far as other current cases are concerned, unfortunately, I cannot say much about this either. I can only say that we are doing this in close cooperation with all those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u8	I am not concerned about whether the Secretary of State for Finance can tell us exactly what is happening on this matter. The only thing the CDA Group wants to know is whether this particular case, with these documents, is being investigated by the FIOD and the D.A. We want to know if any questions have been asked by Italy. If the Secretary of State cannot give the answer now, I would be happy to receive it in writing within a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u9	I'm just gonna see if I can make this kind of statement on current cases at all. That is a matter that my colleague Van der Steur always knows a lot more about. I don't have that ready. The information I could give on a case that would then become clear which one it is, I will also give. That is the promise. That doesn't mean that this will automatically yield anything. I have to ask how we deal with current affairs in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u10	We were shocked by yesterday's broadcast at the PVV, but I do not feel that the Secretary of State is so shocked right now. In the broadcast we heard comments from the Secretary of State as: yes, that is serious and that is a bit scary. The debate we have just had shows that the Secretary of State does not know anything about the past few years. He must contact Mr Van der Steur, the Minister for Security and Justice. A number of years ago, people from Deutsche Bank were convicted. The Netherlands has done everything in its power to keep its own tax revenues up to date, to at least keep the treasury filled. But now it's about the security and the fear that we all have. This is also about the jihad, IS, Al-Qaeda and the war against the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u11	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u12	Now the Secretary of State says, "I don't really know anything about it." What's the Secretary of State going to do over there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u13	Puh, puh, puh.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u14	Was that the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Netherlands has been the frontrunner in the fight against carousel fraud for many years. Together with the Belgians and the Luxembourgers, the Netherlands has developed a tool that is now being rolled out at European level. During the Presidency, we took the initiative. We have informed and trained all kinds of other countries, including Eastern European countries, in dealing with this tool. The Netherlands is very advanced and takes this very seriously. Personally, I think it is one of the worst forms of tax avoidance. It's retrieving something you never paid for and using it for something that it should never be used for. The Netherlands has played a very catalysing role in this. I take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u16	Does Mr De Graaf have a second supplementary question? Okay. Shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u17	The Secretary of State again only hangs with the tax revenue, while these organizations have declared war on the Netherlands. The Islamization of the Netherlands, that's the story. What does the Secretary of State say? The greenhouse must remain filled and for safety the Dutch citizen will pick it out himself. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u18	I have talked about the fact that I think VAT carousel fraud is one of the worst forms of tax avoidance, not only because the money comes from somewhere where it cannot come from, but also because it goes to something that we do not support at all, which is undermining. That is why I referred to this as the double evil: at the expense of the taxpayer, fighting the same taxpayer. That is why we take this very seriously. We are at the forefront of this and we are taking other countries with us. That's exactly what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u19	I think everyone agrees that VAT carousel fraud needs to be tackled hard. I would also like to talk about the other side, namely where the money goes, the financing of terrorism. I don't hear the Secretary of State about the Financial Intelligence Unit at all. How does it work? We also have a law aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. How did that law work in this case or did the law not work at all? What else is missing? What solutions are needed to really tackle these problems so that terrorist financing is no longer possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u20	In doing so, we work with the Tax Administration, which often finds things. It'll be passed on to the FIOD and eventually it'll end up at the D.A.'s office. The way things are with the D.A.'s office, I'm not supposed to interfere with that. It's a good tradition not to. Not even my colleague Van der Steur does that. All kinds of organizations play a role, such as the Financial Intelligence Unit. Information is exchanged in all kinds of ways. It is even more important that international information is also exchanged. There is a very large database, which leads us not only to the trace of carousel fraud, but also to where it might occur. Sometimes we find carousel fraud before it is committed. We have developed a tool with which carousel fraud sometimes does not last three months but three days. That saves a lot of damage and terrorist financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u21	50 billion is a staggering amount, especially if it goes towards the Middle East and if it finances the jihad. The Secretary of State mentioned the international cooperation that is needed. I tabled a motion, which was not supported by the CDA, but which was adopted, to give Europol access to Eurofisc, the information exchange system. My question is what is the situation with regard to the implementation of that motion. The Netherlands would be committed to giving Europol access to that international information exchange system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u22	I don't have the latest state of affairs in front of me. I'll figure this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u23	Will we then receive a written reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u24	Yes. Sure. Maybe that could be included in the same letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u25	The Secretary of State says he's on top of this and that the FIOD is on top of this, because this is a priority. I note that this is EUR 50 billion. At the same time, I note that the number of book surveys has decreased enormously. Barely a book survey is carried out once every 50 years, and as an entrepreneur you will have to deal with a book survey when we need the inspectors to see whether everything is going right and right on the spot. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make sure that there are simply book searches again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u26	The Tax Administration is currently investigating 899 suspicious cases in the field of VAT fraud. I'm sure there's some book searches in there too. This is really a priority, because this is doubly harmful. The IRS, the FIOD and the D.A. are really on top of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-2.u27	Thank you.
