ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome Mrs Pia Dijkstra. She is supported in box-K by Sophie Meijer, collaborator of the fraction of D66. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the examination of this bill. Today we are discussing the first-term response by the initiator and the minister. The second term is scheduled at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Wednesday in Nieuwspoort there was a walk-in consultation organ donation. Members of parliament were able to talk to, among other things, people on a waiting list, transplanted and doctors. There were impressive stories to hear, such as the gratitude that spoke from the story of a girls who got a heart transplanted. When she was asked how old she was, she had to think. After all, she no longer celebrates her ordinary birthday, but her heart age. Furthermore, there was a young man who spends nine hours at home on a dialysis machine every night. No one has been found in his area who is fit to donate a kidney in life. That's why he's been on the waiting list for two years. It took him a lot of energy to get to that walk-in meeting, but that's what he'd like to do. For the past week he has needed to recover from this effort. He spent most of his time sleeping. There was also the story of a 22-year-old young woman waiting for a new heart. Now, in general, waiting is often seen as a standstill, but unfortunately this is not the case. For her, waiting is going backwards. She's getting less and less from declining cardiac function. These are stories that touch you. That's why I want D66 to make this law change. I have also in mind Yvette van der Schaaf, who has advised on this law at an earlier stage. But legislation is a long process and the time that has passed has unfortunately made it impossible for Yvette to experience the treatment of this law. She died of kidney disease. It was her last wish that the adoption of this bill could save more lives. In fact, we are all in agreement on this, as the first term has shown. There are too few organ donors in our country. Every year almost 150 people die waiting for a donor organ. There's another 1,000 people on the waiting list. They have a greatly reduced quality of life. I just described that. This also prevents them from fully participating in society. They can't work anymore, they can't do any activities. There's no movement. We have all said here that we do not think that is acceptable, that we want to change that and that something needs to be done about it. Especially since every poll shows that people want to be organ donors, but unfortunately do not record that. We have agreed on this for quite a few years, because in 2008 there was a Master Plan Organ Donation, which proposed measures to increase the number of registered organ donors significantly and structurally. All measures in the master plan were implemented and taken over by the government, except for one measure. That's what this bill is about: Active Donor Registration (ADR). I will briefly explain my proposal before I answer the questions put to me by my colleagues in the Chamber. Each Dutchman aged 18 years or older receives a letter asking to register his own choice. If you don't respond, you're supposed to have no objection to organ donation. Anyone who fails to respond will receive this request again. The letter then clearly states that those who do not make a choice will be included in the Organ Register as "yes, I am an organ donor." A confirmation will be received after registration. By the way, a choice can easily be changed at any time. I would like to point out that the most important thing is that people's own wishes are met. That wish may be to become an organ donor, but also not to want it. Whatever you choose, you're free. But that which you choose is very important. That is why I should like to begin my reply in a moment to the questions on information. Next, I will address the difficult ethical questions that each proposal on organ donation raises. It is, as I have just said, a subject that affects everyone, a subject that asks people to think about their mortality. Then I come to the important role of the next of kin and the way in which doctors will talk to them. Then I will address in detail the many questions about the protection of those who are unskilled. I will continue to respond by looking at the possible gains that can still be achieved with the current initiatives and with new techniques. In conclusion, I would like to comment on the likely effectiveness of the proposal. My first term is therefore divided into six themes, on which I will answer the questions asked. I hope that today we can get a little closer together, because together we have that one goal: more registered organ donors. I shall begin by stressing the importance of information. Several Members have asked me about the way in which information is to be developed. This information is especially important to make people understand very well what this change in the way they register means: in the new situation you must actively do something if you do not want to be an organ donor. This also applies to the current situation. There's a lot of misunderstandings about that. Even now you have to register "no" in order not to become a donor, or at least inform your family of the decision not to want to be a donor. I have not explicitly included the form of information in the legal text itself, although this is addressed in the explanatory memorandum. It is clear that information must be provided, but the way in which it can best be designed changes with time. A few years ago, for example, you had Hyves. That was a very useful way of reaching out to young people at the time, but that is already completely out of date. Developments in this area are moving very quickly. I did not think it appropriate to formalise in the law how this information should be provided. Of course, I have some ideas about information. I like to share it here. I would also like to invite everyone here to think further about this. Mrs Wolbert did. The amendment lays down the public responsibility for information and public campaigns on organ donation. I'm fine with that. I, too, see an important role for the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport. I also see this for the Dutch Transplantation Foundation, because it has many years of experience in providing information and organizing the Donor Week. Donor Week reaches many people: around 80% of the non-registered. This therefore provides a perspective for explaining the ADR system to large groups of people. Mrs Wolbert and Mr Pechtold asked whether we could learn from the Wales campaign in relation to information campaigns. I'm sure we can do this. In Wales, a large-scale campaign took place last year to inform people of the forthcoming change. As of 1 December 2015, very recently, Wales has moved to a donor registration system where consent is assumed. More than two thirds of MEPs were convinced of the usefulness and need of changing the system in order to help more patients on the waiting list. Moreover, 61% of the Dutch population, i.e. a large majority, are in favour of changing the system. I'm gonna give that to you. I will come back to that later. The new system in Wales is a "soft opt-out system," as they call it there. You can still register "yes" or "no" yourself, but if you don't, consent is assumed. So that is very similar to the ADR system that is before us today. In Wales, a great deal of information has been done in the months preceding the transition to the new system. The emphasis was on explaining the changes. For example, there is a video of a second or 40, which explains very clearly and briefly what the change actually means and how the system works. In the opening, Wales says: we are proud of this new system that makes the choice of organ donor easier for people. Actually, that's telling. Informing your family members about your decision, 'tell a loved one', also played a role in this campaign. In the Netherlands too, of course, communication should highlight the importance of discussing your choice with family members. If they are aware of your wish, they will not be attacked, should the question of donation be raised. In addition to television communication, there must be clear information leaflets. Wales can also serve as an example in this area. A special brochure was produced in Wales. It explains, in very simple language and with the help of drawings, what organs are, what organ transplantation means, why the system changes and how you can pass on your decision. Should that brochure still be too complicated for people, they are advised to ask a friend to help them. There is also a telephone number that can be called if you want to ask questions. This touches on the various questions that have been asked here about informing people who are low-lettered. Those are legitimate questions, because this concerns a large group of people. They too must understand what the change means to them. This is what I have been talking about with the Stichting Lezen & Schrijven. It is important to explain active donor registration not only in a letter, but also in images and sound. This can be done with the help of videos in which people explain or, for example, with drawn animated films. They could be shown on television, for example, which is often present in the waiting rooms of general practitioners, hospitals and pharmacies. After all, there are often low-literate people in these places. It's a well-known fact. People also need to know where they can go if they need additional explanations. The donor form contains a phone number that you can call if you want help filling out the form. Also the general practitioners post, the community center or the library can be places where you can go for additional explanations. The Minister already indicated that general practitioners can provide information on organ and tissue donation, for example during an intake interview with new patients, or when young people become 18 years of age. I would like the form and the accompanying letter sent at home by any unregistered over 18 years of age to be examined by the so-called test panel of language ambassadors. The language ambassadors in this panel have themselves been low-lettered. They can therefore assess whether the forms are too difficult for the low-literate. They can also give advice on the choice of words, sentence building and so on. We must therefore make the most of the information we can. Everyone's supposed to understand the change. If you do nothing, you agree to organ donation: that must be the message. It is important that someone's current wish is known. After all, you can change your registration at any time. People should therefore be reminded of the fact that they are registered and of the way in which they can change that registration if they so wish. On donorregister.nl people can view and change their registration. More than 12 million Dutch people now have a DigiD. Their viewing and modification of the registration will therefore take up to five minutes. Mr President, I see that Mr Öztürk wishes to interrupt me, but in my coming remarks I will go into what he said in the first term. It's okay to stand by the interrupting microphone, 'cause I'm almost there. I mentioned the site donorregister.nl. There are 12 million Dutch with a DigiD. However, you can also get this by post and you can make changes by post by sending a new form. The possibility to view and modify the registration should be regularly pointed out, for example when they receive a voting pass, or a passport, ID or driving licence. Municipalities can play a more active role in this. Mr Öztürk was quite right to point that out. At present 79% of the municipalities are already engaged in activities in this area, I say to the Minister and Mr Öztürk. As far as I am concerned, it is up to the Minister to encourage the last 21% of the municipalities to play an active role there, as requested by the Chamber in the Pechtold motion, I believe, 2010 or 2011. I do not think that Mr Öztürk's proposed solution to oblige people to have a completed donor form taken or filled out on the spot by a municipal official is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u3	It started out so nicely. I thought it would end nicely, too, but unfortunately it doesn't. We believe that every citizen should be able to take a decision knowingly and knowingly. Unfortunately, we are dealing with low literacy, despite all the efforts of the government. I have listened to Mrs Dijkstra's solutions. She says that low-lying people can go to libraries, but I guess they don't go there often. She also says they can go to GPs, but a healthy low-literate person will not go to the GP or the hospital. This person does not read and understand the letters from the government, but is forced by Mrs Dijkstra's initiative to make a choice. That's a right to a person's self-determination. My party expects more efforts before we can give our support, because that group of over 1 million people really needs to be well informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u4	I fully agree with Mr Öztürk that we should inform people as much as possible, at all times and wherever possible. That's why I made this move. I also fully agree with Mr Öztürk that we should give the municipalities an important role in this so that they can either give a form or put it next to the window, at least in a place where it is clearly visible. But it seems to me a step too far to give municipal officials the role of advisor on organ donation. This would mean that all civil servants would have to be retrained. That would have huge consequences. I do not think it is the right way to impose this obligation on municipalities. However, I believe that the last 21% of the municipalities that are not yet active in this area should be encouraged to do so. That's very important. I fully share that point with Mr Öztürk. I go very far with his suggestions, but it is really too far for me to force municipalities to force people to fill out the form when they come to collect their passports or driving licences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u5	You can find very creative solutions for that. For example, the images that Mrs Dijkstra wants to make can be placed on an information column at the entrance to the waiting room of the municipality. Officials will not have to provide information for half an hour. So you're saving time. Officials should alert people that they take this information and ask them if they are prepared to become donors. Make people aware of that doesn't have to cost much. Officials can be trained to alert people that there is a new law and that the Chamber expects everyone to make a choice. I think we can make my solution creatively functional.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u6	I think it is a very good suggestion from Mr Öztürk to pay attention, as I have just described, to the waiting room television in the town halls. It may sound a little weird out of my mouth, but I do object to the fact that we're asking, are you willing to be a donor? With this bill, we want to leave room for everyone, by giving information and letting people decide whether or not they want it. We want to ask people, above all, that is what this legislative amendment is about in principle, that they register that choice. I would therefore never ask the question that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u7	I think that the answer to Mr Öztürk's question, and also to the Wolbert amendment that goes in that direction, may be clarified by Mrs Dijkstra. I walk past a lot of counters and I see flyers everywhere. It is important that someone gets such a flyer and does not send "we ask for your organs" to be said, to put it briefly. The question where anyone can find out more about it must be answered by the people in the library, the town hall or anywhere else. I have a question of my own. What role does Mrs Dijkstra see for the general practitioner? The leaflet is there, but I can imagine that you might want to talk to your doctor about it, for example about specific organs, which you wonder if they have anything to do with it at all, and more of those kinds of questions. Does Mrs Dijkstra see a role for the general practitioner, also in the inviting atmosphere, to talk about if anyone has seen such a leaflet? And do the health insurance guys have a place for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u8	I certainly see an active role for the general practitioner, but it is also an issue between the general practitioner and the patient. As I have just mentioned, it could be discussed if the general practitioner receives a patient for the first time in his practice. There will then be an introductory meeting, in which many topics are discussed, which are often on medical-ethical ground. By the way, that depends a little on the patient's age. You could imagine that the GP actively refers to the ability to become an organ donor and that he provides information about it. Mr Pechtold also asked about the role of health insurers. I talked to them about possible information: what can you do? They have an interest in ensuring that their insured patients receive good treatment and get back on their feet quickly. Healthcare insurers The Netherlands said: we are open to it and we want to make a positive effort to discuss with all the different health insurance companies how to alert people that they need to check that they are registered as organ donors. For example, if the new policy conditions are sent out annually, attention could be paid to this. That's one of the cases I've been investigating. I was just talking to Mr Öztürk about what to do at the town hall. If you apply for a passport, and you pick it up after a week, there's a week in between. That is a problem, because if you are faced with that question by the official at the first time, you will have to answer it next time. That is too short for me, and we have proposed in the amendment that people should have the opportunity to do so twice for six weeks. After the first six weeks there will be a letter. They'll get another six weeks to think about it. By the way, after that there is still the possibility to change your choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u9	My question fits in well with Mrs Dijkstra's speech; she is still on the point of information, so that is a good thing. I have no doubt that Mrs Dijkstra is going to discuss the issue of willlessness and that sort of thing. That's the point we're gonna touch. Wilson qualified are a large group. But there is also a very large group of people in the Netherlands who really have trouble with normal life. I am thinking of people who are leaving piles of mail, people who are temporarily confused and people who have a very serious debt problem running away from their creditors. Those aren't exactly small groups. Are we not at risk with the applicant's bill, that these people are almost all automatically registered as donors? Isn't that contrary to what the applicant herself wants, namely that these people consciously make a choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u10	These are the people who need information. How do you reach people who are in this situation? They often deal with municipalities, with municipal authorities. They also generally come more than average to the general practitioner. Of course, you always have a certain group that keeps itself completely out of society. You want to try to reach them too, and that will have to go mainly through the provision of aid and care. In doing so, it will be necessary to consider how to inform these people. How do you get that on your retina? But you could also call on people who have such people in their family to pay attention to this and see if these people are aware of this. So you actually need to identify anyone who still has contact with these people who don't open their mail and have trouble with it. Then you should try to give as much information as possible about this. In the current system, you certainly don't reach everyone. If people now find themselves in a situation that they would be suitable as organ donors, they've never let on and there's no next of kin or environment, then it's also not known what's happening. There is another important point. In general, when people come into the situation of being an organ donor, doctors are aware of a number of aspects of the patient they are dealing with. There is often contact with the general practitioner, and if someone is not familiar with him, with others, with the municipality or with anyone else. There's time for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u11	It is good to hear that Mrs Dijkstra admits that this is a difficult group, which requires a great deal of attention. There are all kinds of ways to reach that group. She mentions all kinds of ways to get in touch with these people anyway. Indeed, aid has been provided very often, but it often concerns, for example, debt issues. He's gonna need all the attention he can get. Or there's a health problem that needs all the attention at the time. How do we guarantee that this conversation, of all those people, including family members, is suddenly about organ donation? My guess is that these conversations are about the immediate, acute problems these people face. I don't think they're talking about organ donation, and so these people are automatically registered with a yes. Is that what Mrs. Dijkstra wants? Does she want more people to be registered with a yes, even if they are mainly people who, for whatever reason, do not look back at the post? Or does she really want people to make a conscious choice? And if that second is true, how does she tackle this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u12	We want people to make a conscious choice. We also want this bill to ensure that people whose conscious choice is to be an organ donor but who do not get to register have the opportunity to be an organ donor. There will always be a group that is very difficult to reach. That's what you need to focus all your efforts on, but you can't secure and close everything 100%. Mr Rutte spoke about people who are dealing with debt relief and who do not talk about organ donation with their debt relief workers. I would point out, however, that there is also a great deal of paperwork involved in the provision of debt relief. We are therefore looking at how people should deal with this and how they can be helped. The following standard could be included: if it is right, have you received a letter asking you to be an organ donor and if you do not respond then you are, but do you really want to be? People will be aware of that. You should take care of that as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u13	With my amendment, I also believe that I have shown the importance I attach to good and structural information and information. I hear Mrs Dijkstra now talking about what you could do, who could be involved and at what times. However, you can also point people to something so long and so often in all kinds of places and ways, that there is some kind of information fatigue. Has Mrs Dijkstra thought about how this can be prevented? Such information and information must be provided in a proven effective manner. Who would Mrs Dijkstra want to invest it with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mrs Wolbert is right to say that. I mentioned all those things because they're all possibilities to reach people. I wouldn't want to do all that at the same time. I have also referred to the Dutch Transplantation Foundation and to the Ministry, which has a lot of experience in reaching people, including when it comes to other domains. That's why I didn't want to lay down in the law how you do that. But it has to be done, it's clear. If we have arrived at the time when this legislative amendment would be adopted, we need to look very closely at how we are shaping this information. This must be done in such a way that information fatigue does not arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u15	Then who would Mrs Dijkstra want to place that responsibility on? After all, there is a clear difference between what a government can do and what a municipal government could do. Does it have the impression that it is the responsibility of the Empire to coordinate this well and to make it as effective as possible? Or does it want to put it low in the country and closer to the people, in other words to the municipalities? What picture does she have of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u16	I believe that both the government and the local authorities play a very important role in this. I refer, for example, to libraries or town halls. Local authorities are, of course, very important in this respect. I'd really like to put the direction in the hands of the U.S. Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u17	I appreciate Mrs Dijkstra's commitment to information and the importance of reaching everyone. However, like Mrs Wolbert, I feel that the fact that we are reaching everyone with the new system proposed by Mrs Dijkstra and the importance of registration depends on a number of coincidences. Those coincidences are related to the context in which you operate. I have a feeling that in the end more people will not be reached than we would like to. Can Mrs Dijkstra respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u18	It's not about coincidences. It really needs a very clear policy. With my examples, I wanted to show how you could do that. Moreover, I do not have the impression that Mrs Wolbert has just said that it is connected with coincidences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u19	I'd like to respond to that. That's exactly why I'm standing here on the interrupting microphone. I didn't use the word "coincidence." That was not at all the use of my interruption. I am therefore committed to correcting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u20	I wouldn't have understood that myself. Mrs Dik-Faber may have taken a different view. I wanted to point out that there are a lot of opportunities to reach as many people as possible. The government has very often wanted to reach every citizen. There are many possibilities for this and we must choose the most effective way to reach the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u21	If I have misread or misunderstood Mrs Wolbert, I should like to begin by apologizing. Once again, I appreciate Mrs Dijkstra's efforts to set up a structured system. I understand that the U.S. Department should be in charge of this. I wonder how the Minister looks at that. My concerns go out to the group of people with a different cultural background, for example a group of Moroccans or a group of Surinames. The number of registrations is significantly lower for them than for the Dutch population. How are we going to reach them? I also have reservations about the group of people who, for whatever reason, do not want to register at all, who simply find it difficult to make a choice. That group is now forced to make a choice. How do we deal with these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u22	I will come back to that in more detail, but I would like to make it clear that, as far as I am concerned, every choice is a choice. That's the nasty thing: not choosing is a choice either. That's how life works. I'll be right back on this. I fully agree with Mrs Dik-Faber when she says that special groups should be given special attention. We also need to reach these groups through their own language or in any way. It is important to include these target groups in the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mrs Dijkstra's explanation is clear. There are two aspects to the information campaigns in the answers. On the one hand, Mrs Dijkstra states that we cannot guarantee 100% that we can reach everyone. On the other hand, we do not want to create information fatigue. What government campaign does Mrs Dijkstra think is successful at the moment? What campaign does she see as an example of how you want to reach people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u24	Every comparison is a bit tricky, because it concerns very different subjects. I mention, for example, the Bob campaign. It's a huge success. I don't think there's a lot of people who don't know about that campaign. That is an example, and there are more examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u25	The Bob campaign is indeed successful. About 90% of people recognize that campaign. How do you make sure it goes from 90% to 100% and that you really reach everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u26	That is what we are aiming for. At the same time, you should not have the illusion that it is always 100% waterproof. I would like to point out that this is certainly not the case in the current system. When I look at how many people I encounter who really have no idea what the current system means, although we have put campaigns on it a number of times, I have to say that it has not been enough. So you have to continue it much more and you have to remind people. We must realise that. A lot of people don't realize that if it comes to it, the next of kin decide for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u27	Given the figures of 2015, the recognition of the campaign on organ donation from the government is around 72%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u28	It's 80%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u29	The other aspect is the memory of it. It's only around 41%. You may remember seeing it once, but it's possible that you also understand what it is. The step from 42% to 90% is already quite a step, but before everyone recognizes it and interiorizes it, there is a decent way to go. What are the three key issues that Mrs Dijkstra says: we should do differently now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u30	I've already indicated myself what really needs to be different. We have to start at zero again. In fact, I am referring to the campaign in Wales; so I have him in my head. You start with the following questions. What are we talking about when it comes to organs? What's organ donation? How do we do that? I think we need to make a very intensive effort to get the other percentages informed. But of course it starts with the fact that you get a letter on the bus around this change of law and that six weeks later you get another letter on the bus and that you are then confronted in all sorts of places with the question of whether you know how you are registered and with the request: look it up; you can do it that way and that way. The attention remains high in that regard. Mr. Chairman. I do not go into the role of the municipalities, because I have already given sufficient consideration to this. I have also answered the question about healthcare insurers Netherlands. I come to the ethical dilemmas. It is, of course, an incredibly important issue that we are discussing here, and that brings with it ethical dilemmas. Several speakers talked about the right not to choose. Shouldn't that be standing up? In order to answer that question, I would first like to address the system we now have. At the moment there is the possibility not to register. However, there are legal consequences. If you don't decide for yourself, you leave the answer to the question of whether or not you become a donor to your next of kin. That is the case at the moment for nearly 9 million people. They have no choice. A choice has to be made when the donation question comes up. Doctors will then ask next of kin to make the choice. So you have the right not to make your own choice, but in practice this means that someone else does that for you, namely the next of kin. He'll decide eventually. That is why I would like to ask again: do relatives have the right not to choose? For them, the decision they have to make for another at an extremely emotional moment is almost impossible. You can hardly ask people, but they do, because it's the only way people haven't registered. I'll come back to that complicated position of next of kin later. I believe that the choice of next of kin should be left alone when someone explicitly chooses to do so. And next of kin will know what they're up to. If the doctor's next of kin is told that it is stipulated that they are allowed to make the choice, they will know in any case that their next of kin has given them the freedom to make their own decision. Therefore, the choice to leave the decision to the next of kin or to a specific third person remains valid in the legislative proposal before us today. Mrs Bruins Slot pointed out that there are people who cannot make the choice "my next of kin or a specific third person." That can be; those people can be there. Those who cannot or do not want to make decisions will have to decide for themselves. No matter how you arrange it, you can't go left or right. You can't choose. You can't make the choice that someone else chooses for you. That's basically what it's about right now. The importance of thinking about organ donation is widely recognised. Research carried out by TNS Nipo in 2011 shows that almost everyone thinks organ donation is a useful topic, that affects all people and that it is worth thinking about. That makes me think it is justified to proceed to a new way of registering, whereby the pressure to make a choice is increased and this is no longer as voluntary as it is now, with 60% of the Dutch making no choice at all, with the consequence that the next of kin make that choice. No or yes could come out of that. Mr Rutte mentioned self-determination. I would like to refer to him: when it comes to real self-determination, you have to make your own choice. The VVD says in its election programme that it wants to promote that all people make a conscious choice to donate their organs after their death. The way in which I propose to register is much more transparent than the present one in its consequences. After all, it is not clear whether the next of kin will choose yes or no. In my proposal, you know that if you don't do something, you'll agree to become an organ donor. If you don't want to, you register in a different way. But then there's definitely what you've chosen. The consequences are clearly explained and you have every opportunity to say no. Everyone is regularly reminded of this. I say it again explicitly: it is not the government that makes the choice for you; you are the one who agrees to the choice "yes, I become organ donor." "Because with that, I can save lives," I add. If I ever need an organ of my own... the chance of it is much greater than the chance of becoming a donor myself... I hope others have made a choice too. In this way we can maintain a solidarity provision, but that requires a choice from everyone: yes, no, or I leave it to a next of kin. You choose. It is true that in this proposal, the government has expressed a preference for yes. That also makes sense, because it is in line with how the population thinks about organ donation and is in line with the fact that, should it be necessary, everyone would like to receive an organ. Ms Bruins Slot asked whether the right not to choose was based on Article 11 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the ECHR. That right does not follow from those articles, but it does include the right to inviolability of one's own body and the right to self-determination in these articles. But the right to untouchability of the body is not unlimited. A law may restrict this right and the current Law on Organ Donation (Wod) is such a restriction. That is also what the Council of State says in its opinion. After all, even without express consent, someone can become an organ donor, namely if the next of kin gives permission to do so. The regulation I am proposing is such a restriction, but it is nothing new compared to what we already have. Such legislation must serve a legitimate purpose. In this case, this objective is the same as in the current law on organ donation, namely promoting organ supply. In addition, such legislation should provide for proper information on the legal consequences of the failure to react after repeated encouragement. We have just discussed this in detail. In establishing the current Vod it has been considered that a non-objection system is not contrary to the Constitution, because Article 11 leaves room for such a system. With regard to Article 9 of the ECHR, I would like to refer to the fact that a majority of European countries have a non-objection system in which, if you do not record anything, you are supposed to be a donor. A non-objection system or proposed ADR system is therefore not contrary to Article 8 of the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you for this legal explanation; I always like that. Did I understand correctly that Mrs Dijkstra indeed states that it is an infringement of Article 11 of the Constitution, but that it can be justified on the grounds she herself has indicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u32	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mrs Dijkstra has just argued that there are indeed people who do not want or can let another decide, but that they really have to make a choice themselves. Do people or do they not have the right not to choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u34	If they don't want to choose, they can leave it to their next of kin. That is the way forward in this proposal for people who do not want to choose for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u35	Earlier in her reasoning, Mrs Dijkstra also indicated that letting your next of kin choose is actually much worse than not making a choice. Is that what Mrs Dijkstra means?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u36	No. Someone can say, "I just don't know, and I don't really care what happens when I'm dead. It may be much more important for the next of kin and that is why I leave it to the next of kin." In the current system it is very clear what the consequences are if you do not register or if you... No, I have to put it differently: if you do not register, what the consequences are. Then it is very obvious, I assume, too, that people who choose to let their next of kin decide on this will discuss it with their next of kin. Nor can I imagine that next of kin who have no idea what the deceased wants and how the deceased is registered would say: then let's give him an organ donor. I think Mrs Bruins Slot should be aware that, even if you do not want to choose, it is a choice. The same applies to the current system. If you don't choose right now, your choice is to leave it to the next of kin. So you don't know what it's gonna be. In the system I'm proposing, you'll become an organ donor if you don't do something. If you don't want to, you can choose other options.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u37	I think Mrs Dijkstra's explanation is very clear. No matter how different you can judge it, the facts are in any case very clear and clear. However, there is the point that if you register yourself that you leave the choice to your next of kin, the real self-determination is, but if you do not register it and your next of kin therefore have to decide as a consequence of the current system, it is actually a lack of self-determination. Isn't that very theoretical? Doesn't it really matter in practice whether you explicitly say that you leave it to your next of kin or that it is the consequence of the system that the choice is for the next of kin because you don't make a choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u38	It is very interesting that Mr Van der Staaij asks whether that is not very theoretical. In practice, all the letters from the doctors involved in transplant transplants.................................................................................................................................................................................................... I can imagine you'd say no. So that's what a lot of people do. They describe that just when there is a registration, it is much clearer for next of kin in which direction they should think. Doctors can be much more focused on accommodating the next of kin if there is a yes. If you leave the choice to the next of kin in the modified system, the next of kin also know that it was explicitly the deceased's wish that they decide. They'd have a lot less trouble figuring out what the deceased himself would have wanted. That is left to them. At the moment, relatives have to think very much about it: it was a very altruistic person, but yes, we never talked about it. That's what you have to do while you're dealing with that huge sadness over that loss and everything that comes at you. So it really is a different starting point. That's the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u39	Is it really important in practice whether the choice lies with the next of kin because you did not fill in the box yourself or because you explicitly filled in the "choice to next of kin" box? Isn't the difference in practice much more if you do have any idea what the deceased thought about it? Isn't part of the solution that, whatever system you have, you should have talked about it a lot more, so that next of kin have any idea what opinion the person had on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u40	Of course it would be nice if everyone here in the family or in the circle of friends talked about it, but the reality is that this does not always happen. We cannot, of course, force people to talk about this with each other. That is the reality of everyday life that we are dealing with. That is why we say: in our system it is much clearer. If you have decided to leave it to the next of kin, then the next of kin may feel completely free at that time to do what they deem appropriate and what they say so I would like to say, perhaps at that time. When it is left to next of kin, you see at this moment that it is very often a no; that is the fact. You can also see that people will regret it later, when they have had time to think about it. The latter you promote with this transparency. If you have explicitly chosen the next of kin, at that very difficult moment they don't have to wring themselves in all those turns to think of what someone would have wanted. He didn't want to do that. He leaves that too. Now it's just that you don't really know; or sometimes you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u41	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u42	Finally, should there not be more focus on this than is now the case in education or in raising awareness about it: make sure that you talk about it in your family and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u43	I agree, but I find it and-and. I think it's hugely conducive to the position of next of kin. It is very important, but I would not want to do so without making this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u44	I am listening carefully to Mrs Dijkstra and I wonder whether we would not be able to combine a number of things by changing the system as suggested by a number of political groups in the first term: if people do not register, they will not be filled in by the state 'yes, I am a donor', but will be filled in by the state 'yes, my next of kin decide'. Then we'll leave it with the next of kin. At least that seems to me more attractive than the government making a choice. Next of kin will also know that this question can be explicitly put on their plate at that perhaps painful time. Would that be a passable path for the performer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u45	We have reviewed all the possibilities, but we have not proposed them. If you do that, then not much changes compared to the current situation. In the Masterplan Organ Donation a number of possibilities have been placed next to each other. It has been shown that this makes little difference and also results very little in terms of effectiveness, because the decision remains with the next of kin. Since you didn't let me know, the next of kin has to decide, as is the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u46	Survivors are now confronted with a yes which they do not know whether it has been an active or passive yes. I also hear Mrs Dijkstra say herself that she makes a distinction between the situation that next of kin are being asked in the current system because the deceased has not registered and the situation that next of kin are being asked because it has been an explicit choice of the deceased. The latter would be in favour of adapting the system in such a way that if people do not register, what next of kin decide will be filled in automatically. Then that is more explicitly laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u47	My proposal explicitly states that people can choose to do so. I don't quite see what Mrs Dik-Faber means. In my view, it will not be sufficiently effective, because you are already dealing with people who don't decide anything. Then the next of kin has to decide. If you change that into "if you don't register, your next of kin decide," then we have the current situation. Then we don't have to change anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u48	Something's gonna change. If you do not respond now after two calls, you will be filled in that the next of kin may decide. We can explicitly focus the information campaign on the fact that if people do not sign up for registration, it is automatically filled out that next of kin decide. The choice to do nothing leads to next of kin deciding. This is clarified, which makes it easier for the next of kin to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u49	I insist that that is actually the same system that we have now. If you want to do that, you need to set up an intensive information campaign in the hope that people will talk about it with each other. The aim of the legislative amendment is to get more clear registrations. That is precisely what is being asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u50	Can the applicant indicate whether research carried out in the group of non-registered persons reveals the percentage which an organ would like to give up but has not been registered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u51	I do not have precise figures ready, but it is well known that most of the Dutch want to receive an organ if necessary. We know of 40% of registered persons whether or not they want to donate an organ. There is a very large group of people who, when it comes to it, would like to receive an organ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u52	The latter seems obvious to me; it is well known. I'm just assuming that out of the group of non-registered people, two thirds to 70% are willing to give up an organ, just like those registered with the group. Suppose that's the case and we can assume that percentage. How can it be that, in the present situation, in which the undocumented have to decide the next of kin, up to 70% of the next of kin decide not to make available an organ of the loved one who died? Can the performer indicate what that difference is? After all, that is very big.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u53	That is precisely what I have said a few times, namely that it is an incredibly difficult question for relatives to face the loss of a loved one and at that time to decide whether or not to donate an organ. Then there is no time for rational decisions. If you can think about it quietly, you might think: I would like to receive an organ myself if I need it, so I should actually make my organs available. That's what you can talk to each other about. None of these questions can be asked in that time frame. There's no way to think about it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u54	Finally, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u55	Shouldn't you conclude that with a "yes, unless" system, the Active Donor Registration System, it is likely that more is being done to meet what non-registered people want than is the case in the current situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u56	Could you repeat it for a moment, Mr Van Gerven?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u57	My point is this. If you assume the Active Donor Registration system, the "yes, unless" system, you can expect that the next of kin will not be followed, but that the line that has two thirds of people will actually be followed, namely that they are willing to give up their organs. We've seen that with the registered. Of the non-registered, that is less known, but you can assume that percentage is in the same order of magnitude. My conclusion is that the 'yes, unless' system does more justice to what people want, though it is not registered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u58	I fully follow Mr Van Gerven's reasoning. That is exactly why we are making this proposal. I shall come back to the role of the next of kin in detail. However, I think we should say that the most important thing is for people to indicate what they are now indicating in all these investigations and conversations. It doesn't matter who you talk to, who you talk to about this. There are very few people who say, "No, I don't want that." They're all actually saying that they do. However, with the system we now have, we are not able to get those people registered. That's exactly the heart of the legislative change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u59	I did not want to limit the number of interruptions, but I would appreciate it if Mrs Dijkstra would have the opportunity to deal more with earlier questions. This is her first term. The Chamber has taken every opportunity to ask questions and believes that the initiator should have the opportunity to answer them. It is true that Mr Rutte does not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u60	I very much agree, Mr President. That is why I usually keep my interruptions very short, even in two and not in threes. I'd like to give you that. I have very pressing questions about next of kin, but Mrs Dijkstra will come back to that in a moment. Then I'll probably be standing here again. It's no different. Even then, I will be brief. Now I have a question about the right not to choose. We know that in more places. You are not obliged to choose whether you want to be cremated or buried. That is one of the things I myself put forward in my first term and I have mentioned many more things, but let me give you an example in the medical sense. Almost all parties in this house have said with regard to the electronic patient file that it is very far-reaching, so as a patient you must actively choose to participate. D66, too. We would find it very strange to say: we do it nicely electronic and if you do not want to, you should report it to the doctor. That's far less far-reaching than just being registered as a donor. Does Mrs Dijkstra agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u61	At the EPD, all general practitioners had to ask the patients if they agreed. So that's what they had to report. I find the comparisons made with other subjects, such as funerals and cremations, very difficult. Mr Rutte did so in the first place. By the way, I understand he's making those equations. I have to say that I've tried to live very intensively in people who have trouble with this. Each time I notice that what drives me and my party to change this law is that we have in mind all those people who are now waiting for an organ. Over 1,000 people on the waiting list are dead. Of course, Mr Rutte thinks that is undesirable and unacceptable. If you see what measures have been taken over the past ten years, realizing that the Law on organ donation has been in existence for twenty years and you see what that has brought us, then you must note that that is not enough. If you're buried or cremated, that's the end of your life. That's it. What this is about is that at the end of your life you can still mean a lot to others. Mr Rutte will then say: I will do so myself. But we all feel that if it happens to us, an organ is available. This social and solidarity provision is shaped in several ways in our society, and I refer to the healthcare system. Then you can say, "Let's do everything we can to get it done." Then we do not deprive people of free choice on this point, no, we give that choice very explicitly. But we're gonna ask you to record it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u62	That was a very comprehensive answer, albeit not to my question. I made a comparison with the EPD, which we may have to come back to later. Mrs Dijkstra is constantly weighing up a very big social problem, which I agree with her and the solution in the form of more organs. But she doesn't care what people choose, as long as they choose. These things, of course, are not in line with each other. Doesn't Mrs Dijkstra just want more people to be put on yes, so that more organs will be created? That is the great social importance and that is what she chooses. That is a reasoning, I say it very harshly in the category 'the end justifies the means'. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u63	It's not. The goal is indeed to obtain more organ donors. We now know that because people do not register what their choice is and relatives in large majority say no, because they find that difficult at the time, a lot of organs are lost from people who, if you could have discussed that with them in advance, would have decided differently than their next of kin. That's one side of the story. What do you want to do? You want that solved. You want a lot more clarity about what people want. I know that Mr Rutte has doubts as to whether that is what the expectation is, so the effectiveness of that is what I am going to come up with, but we are seeing more registration in all the countries where it is arranged in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u64	I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u65	The current law on organ donation assigns an important position to the next of kin. We have discussed this issue in detail. 12% of the people currently registered leave the decision specifically to the next of kin or to a third person. Mr Van der Staaij wonders why, in our proposal, Article 11 (3) was chosen to leave the decision to the next of kin if the designated person is inaccessible and how it relates to the donor's self-determination and the inviolability of the body. I would like to point out to Mr Van der Staaij that this is no different from the way in which it is regulated in Article 11 (5) of the current law. Also on the donor form that people fill out themselves, it is very explicit: in the event of inaccessibility of the designated person, it is the next of kin who decide. Well, that's how it is now. In the current legislation, therefore, it is largely the next of kin who make the decision on organ donation. I have said it many times: it comes at a heavy and emotionally charged moment. The Council of State also sees the burden of such a situation, but at the same time notes that the survivors have been given an important position in the current law on organ donation, because they are closely involved with those who have just died. The Council of State also considers that survivors can be an important source of information, for example in the case of persons who are incompetent or actually incompetent. I have taken note of the comments made by the Council of State, which you will have noticed and given a more important position to the survivors in the present proposal. They can, as the Council of State rightly pointed out, have information that shows, for example, that someone did not want to be a donor or was not reasonably able to properly appreciate his interests. Mr Van Gerven, Mrs Bruins Slot, Mr Rutte and Mr Van der Staaij asked how next of kin could make this plausible. In practice, a doctor always has a conversation with the next of kin about organ donation, even if the deceased himself has indicated that he wants to be a donor. Then the next of kin will not have to be asked for permission, but the next of kin will receive more information about the donation procedure during that conversation. In my proposal, during this conversation, relatives can tell why they know someone didn't want to be a donor. Of course, the doctor will ask carefully at such a time, but in the end the doctor will respect the vision of the next of kin, even in the legislative proposal that is now before us. I would like to stress that the association of doctors with the next of kin is human work and that it remains so. Doctors will not ask relatives for papers to prove that or for proof, but they will mostly listen to them. If there is a written will decision that does not correspond to the registration, that written will decision applies. It stays that way in the bill. That could also be a document that takes that into account. It could be euthanasia, life-long treatments and that kind of subject matter. So a written declaration of will will always be given priority, but if there isn't, relatives will be able to tell their story and explain why they are sure that the one who died was registered as a yes, but really didn't want to. A doctor's behaviour is therefore not subject to legislation and regulations, which depends on the situation. That space, that trust and that responsibility already have doctors and they will keep it in my proposal. On the specific role that relatives have in relation to will-successful people, I will come back in detail in my reply. Several colleagues have asked me how a doctor makes the assessment to depart from a yes registration because of major emotional concerns among the relatives. At the moment, in about 5% of cases where the deceased has indicated that he wants to be a donor, he is not making donations, because the survivors object seriously. It's not legal. It is a consideration that is made at the appropriate time by the treating physician. On the website of the government, it is described under the heading "heavy reasons" as follows: "A next of kin may, for example, fall into severe psychological distress if the donation would continue. The doctor concerned shall assess whether this is the case." In the event of major problems with the next of kin, the doctor will talk and try to find out where these concerns come from. But if they cannot be removed, there will be no donation against the express wishes of the next of kin. The ADR does not change this. The ADR therefore does not affect the way in which the doctor will respect the views of the next of kin. I can therefore answer the CDA's question as to whether the proposal respects the important role of the next of kin, with a full yes. However, the ADR has an influence on the way in which the conversation with the next of kin is organised. After all, a doctor will no longer have to deliver the difficult message: nothing is registered; do you want to give permission for donation? This can help doctors in their work, as they themselves have said in a reaction. The doctors most affected in practice by organ donation are the medical specialists working in intensive care, the intensiveists. They are at the bed of potential donors every day and accompany the families of these patients. Intensivists are said to be frequently confronted with the undesirable situation of the low percentage of registrations in the current consent system. Survivors are confronted at a very difficult, emotionally charged moment with the choice of donation, because a registration is missing. This has great implications both for family members and for patients who are waiting for an organ. The Dutch Association for Intensive Care, the association of intensive care professionals, believes that a comprehensive registration system is not only important for addressing the donor shortage, but that this will also benefit the donation conversation and the supervision of relatives. The NVSHA, the Dutch Association of Emergency Aid Doctors, also stated that its members expressed their support for this amendment to the Law on Organ Donation at the General Assembly. This association considers that, despite all efforts, the current level of registration is insufficient. The introduction of an ADR system ensures a registration rate of almost 100%. They consider this desirable for relatives of potential donors and for patients awaiting a donor organ. It was also asked whether one kind of yes would not lead to confusion for relatives and doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u66	Before Mrs Dijkstra starts a new block, I will come back to the following. Mrs Dijkstra says two things that are difficult to combine. First of all, she said that the bill for active donor registration does not affect the position of the next of kin. She then explains that it makes the conversation a bit easier for the intenses. That's exactly my problem. Last week, I was at that meeting with all those patients and all those organizations. I spoke to an intensivist who said he wanted this law, because he could go to the next of kin and say: we have agreed in this country that people are basically organ donors and so this person is basically organ donors. The next of kin is therefore not confronted with the question "has he registered or not?" But with the announcement that we just made an appointment and that everyone is an organ donor. Is that what Mrs. Dijkstra wants? Does it recognize that in such a conversation the position of the next of kin is not equal to the position of the next of kin now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u67	In my view, the doctor, the intensivist, would say that the deceased is registered as an organ donor. When I hear this, I think there should be some effort to do so. In the conversation afterwards, when the family asks, he can explain how the system works and what the system is and then he can explain very clearly what is going on. But you know what I find so complicated? I find it so hard to imagine that people, if asked, wouldn't know if someone insisted on not being an organ donor. So the conversations with the next of kin are now much more about what the deceased would have wanted. Now we're assuming yes registration. It's all the same. I also come to the various types of yes, to which various spokesmen have asked. But there's one yes registration. If someone does not want to be an organ donor, the family is generally aware of that expressed wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mr. Rutte. But you don't have to. I can see you're having second thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u69	Yes, you are, Mr. Chairman. I get the feeling that Mrs Dijkstra doesn't want the conversation to go this way either. I think that's a win. But there's still a concern there. I'm gonna keep going on this. About a month ago, my party organised a fairly extensive meeting on organ donation. There was also an ethicist present, namely Mr Engberts of the LUMC. He said: "We are a country where the great role of the relatives is deeply rooted in culture. It is an illusion that a change of law changes people's behavior. This was not the case with previous system changes either. Apparently, it's not wanting to give consent to something that's very deep in people at such an emotional moment. Saying 'I don't know if the deceased would have wanted it' is perhaps just a way to give words to that." If you know that, if that's true, then the deceased's next of kin will be overwhelmed when an intensivist says, "We made the deal that everyone here is an organ donor?" Then you're not gonna account for the grief at that difficult moment, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u70	Mr Rutte shows exactly why, in our view, this amendment of the law is so terribly necessary. That is really the key problem. The next of kin are confronted with that question and say "no" because they don't know. Then you say "no" rather than "yes," because then you take it for granted. Mr Rutte says to me: you are not going to change that if you consider people who have not registered themselves, who do not object and do not say 'I do not want to', as people who say yes. But just by doing that, it becomes clear to next of kin when they get that question. The question should not be: do you know that the system is so and so in the Netherlands? The question should start with: the deceased is in the organ donation register and that means the following. That's a very good starting point for talking to the doctors. That's what I understood from the doctors I talked to about that. They say: if you have a registration, you can have that conversation other than in a situation where you should know nothing about it with family. So that's a difference from how it's arranged now. I come to the different kinds of yes. I have been asked whether this does not lead to confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mrs. Bruins Slot would like to ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u72	I see your non-verbal message, Mr. Chairman, so I'll be brief. My question to Mrs Dijkstra is: what types of psychological distress are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u73	It can be expressed in different ways. I find it difficult to give an example of this. Psychiatric distress may be that someone gets totally off the hook if it would go on. Or someone who is already psychically confused gets very serious problems and, so to speak, goes crazy. You can imagine anything. But I'm not a doctor. So it's hard for me to judge exactly what that psychic distress means. I wouldn't want to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u74	The criterion "psychic distress" is now applied only if someone has actually registered as a donor and therefore consciously opted for yes. That criterion is not included in the conversation with next of kin if the deceased person had not made a choice. How does Mrs Dijkstra see it that in all hospitals where organ donation is taking place, doctors in the same way make the assessment of "psychological need"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u75	It won't be any different than it is now. Each doctor has his own professional responsibility in assessing that situation. I don't see any difference from the way it's handled right now. I've already mentioned the doctors and the conversation they're having. I was talking about the different species. I have already dealt with this when Mr Rutte asked for it. The intensivists are the ones who stand at the patient's bed and have the conversation with the next of kin. They have indicated that it is very undesirable for a possible non-objection system to distinguish between explicit and tacit consent, precisely for the reason I have just mentioned. We want someone's wish to be respected. If that's a yes, that's the wish that doctors have to pass on to the next of kin. It is of course important that people are aware of each other's choices. That is why I shall come back to what we have discussed before. This will also be emphasised in the information campaign. Mrs Dik-Faber asked me to respond to the position of the KNMG. The KNMG is neutral on the website compared to a choice for a legal system. It is also part of the Coordination Group on Organ Donation. Mrs Dik-Faber further asked for the possibility of the KNMG drafting a directive on the conduct of a conversation between doctors and relatives because there are still many relatives who refuse donation. Communication training has been deployed throughout the Netherlands as part of the master plan. This training was followed by a majority of doctors in intensive care. Nevertheless, the national figures show that the refusal rate is barely falling. In the question put by Mrs Dik-Faber, the reason for this rate of refusal has already been decided. I quote Mrs Dik-Faber: doctors need to talk to relatives at an extremely sad and emotional moment. So the no of next of kin isn't weird. Promoting that next of kin say yes is very difficult. We cannot change the extremely difficult situation in which they find themselves. This is also not affected by a KNMG Directive. However, we can remove ignorance. I do not think that we should try to increase the number of donations through the next of kin. That is what I am saying to Mr Rutte. We need to make sure that a registration is known of everyone. I'm gonna get to the wiles. A lot of questions have been asked about that too. How does the proposal provide for careful handling of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u76	I'm getting more and more obsessed with asking a question. It shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u77	That's not the point. This is law enforcement. I just wanted to give Mrs. Dijkstra some space.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u78	And that's quite right, of course. I don't mean to let Mrs. Dijkstra tell her story. I'm trying with my questions to make sure she can. The block on the implicit and the explicit yes concludes Mrs Dijkstra. I think this is an incredibly important point. At the moment 3.5 million Dutch people have explicitly registered with a yes. Mrs Dijkstra may know that I am one of them; I am very much in favour of organ donation. Those people are basically known to want this too. They chose it. They have taken that step consciously. Mrs Dijkstra chooses in her legislative proposal to mix the people who have expressed this yes with those who do not respond. However, that is a very different group of people. People who don't respond didn't explicitly choose a yes. If we do that, we will never be able to separate those two groups again. Survivors will never again know whether someone has explicitly said yes or not. Then why choose? Why does Mrs Dijkstra choose to mix in the registration the people who do not respond with those who respond very explicitly and have made a conscious choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u79	The bill will still aim to ensure that people register actively. I have already mentioned a few times why I think it is important that people who do not respond are also registered as yes. Information and communication on this legislative amendment must ensure that everyone knows that it is. This also means that this very large group of people who do want to be organ donors, but who do not want to register themselves, do not have to do any actions. This therefore fits in with the fact that a very large group says: I do want to be an organ donor, but it is not possible to record that. It communicates to them: if you do nothing, you are an organ donor. It also means that the people who do not want to be, because of course there are, can also record that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mrs Dijkstra referred to other countries in her earlier reply, but also in the legislative proposal itself. She referred to Wales again today. In all these countries, anywhere in the world where there is an opt-out system, people can register with "yes" or "no" or "no objection." It's not for nothing. They can register that they have no objection to organ donation. If they don't do something, they'll be put in that group. They are thus explicitly not mixed with the people who have indicated that they want to be an organ donor. There's a reason for that. If Mrs Dijkstra mixes these groups with this bill, does she not risk reducing the number of actual organ donations, because relatives really don't know what they're up to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u81	I've turned that in a couple of times. This system, in which all yes are a yes, gives a clear picture. This means, for next of kin, that they are faced with a yes registration. As a result, they no longer have to make a very difficult decision at the time, except when they are sure that the person did not want it. They can discuss that with the doctor. We have understood from all the doctors that it is very important that this difference is not made. Otherwise, you'll still have the discussion you're having. That discussion is what makes so many people say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u82	I am standing here because it is also a very important point for my group. I cannot imagine that mixing these groups would make the discussion easier. Survivors will never know if it has been an active or passive yes. This can lead to so much uncertainty for relatives that they will not agree to it, because they do not want their deceased loved one to be available as an organ donor. So the opposite of what Mrs Dijkstra wants with her legislative proposal is actually achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr Rutte makes the comparison with other countries. He says you can report "no objection" anywhere. In these countries, however, there is no question of whether they can still play a different role. I think it's important that you keep in mind that it's supposed to be there, but it's not asked there. Mrs Dik-Faber says that it is difficult for relatives if they do not know whether it is an active or passive yes. I've just said that if you're related to someone who dies from whom you know they object to donating their organs, or if you're confronted with a yes registration when you're sure this wasn't the case, you can bring it in. So that is explicitly addressed, so that people know if someone didn't want to donate. That still gives the next of kin a role. Is it getting harder for the next of kin? The doctors note that it provides more clarity for the next of kin if it is explicitly registered that someone leaves it to them than if they have no idea what it is about. If there is a yes or a no, that also offers much more clarity for the next of kin. The key point of information remains that everyone is aware of this. Whoever is registered as a yes can therefore assume that this is also a yes. We're asking people to register. If they don't, they're a yes. If they don't want to, we say, "Let me know."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u84	Honestly, I don't think it's gonna get any easier. I share with Mrs Dijkstra the need to remove the pressure from next of kin. That is why it is very important that in life there is already talk about death and someone's wishes. But if we want to take one step and make it easier for next of kin, my plea is that if we do not register that it is left to the next of kin, so that there is no government check on "yes, I am a donor." In the latter case, you mix the groups of active and passive yes registration. Survivors will never know if anyone has explicitly chosen it. That explicit choice is, as Mrs Dijkstra says, just so important to the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u85	In dealing with the previous block, we have already talked about it. We're gonna stick around a little bit in the same position. By communicating about the change of law, through information and through everything around it, a yes, even if it is not explicitly registered, is a conscious yes. That is precisely the large group that is now saying that it is a conscious yes but that it is not possible to register. For that group, we make it possible to be a donor if you don't let us know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mrs Dijkstra said that we were discussing this just now. It was then about the question of what the difference is: in one case the choice is left to the survivors as a result of explicitly ticking a box, and in the other case that choice is left to the survivors, as an effect of not making a choice. At that time, however, Mrs Dijkstra stressed that it is really very important, compared to an implicit choice, to have that choice explicitly. Then I don't understand why she suddenly doesn't think the difference is so relevant when it comes to the difference between explicitly yes or even more an implicit yes. Can she explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u87	We're talking about two different yes's, or a wish to leave it to the next of kin. I was just talking to Mr Van der Staaij about the moment that next of kin know that they are allowed to decide and that, to put it bluntly, they do not have to take into account what the deceased might have wanted. If he has indicated that he has left it to the next of kin, then the difference is that that gives the next of kin clarity. In the end, there is no difference between explicit and implicit yes. This must therefore also be reflected in the way the registration takes place. In the case of a yes, it is also clear to the doctors what the patient wanted. It is, of course, a question of making it clear to people in our legislative proposal and throughout the communication around it that this is the result of non-registration. So I'm making a distinction between the situation in which next of kin have to decide, and the situation in which you, by yourself, live, decide that you don't object to the fact that you become an organ donor, and that you're okay with that, but you don't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u88	The paper and language are patient to formulate it in such a way that explicit and implicit are ultimately the same. But isn't it still an important difference, even in the experience of next of kin, whether it is an express wish and choice of the person concerned to make his organs available, in case of a yes, or whether this is the result of a legal system, and people simply haven't made a choice and we're going fictitiously with a yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u89	I have also looked at the countries where this is already very common and where next of kin also have a role to play. I've been looking at how many problems left. This point does not make any sense. I therefore think that this may have a role to play for some, but I have the conviction that it is of course also a question of getting used to how you manage this as a society that ultimately provides a great deal of clarity for the next of kin. I would now like to turn to the question of how the proposal provides for careful handling of people who are unable to give a reasonable appreciation of their interests in this matter. In short, it's about dealing with the unskilled. The questions related to this also deserve a comprehensive answer. First of all, it is important to note that the current law does not contain specific measures for non-skills. Article 9 of the current Organ Donation Act states that adults and minors aged 12 and over, who are able to give a reasonable appreciation of their interests, can give permission for organ donation. It follows implicitly that will-be-skills are excluded from post-mortem transplantation. In fact, they are not allowed to donate after their death. However, the current law does not contain any provision to prevent it from happening. Willow skills are also written into the current law and could fill out a form. There's probably no way it's gonna happen, but there's no way it's gonna happen. Registration does not check whether or not the person concerned is willingly qualified. In addition, if the donation question is asked, the next of kin could give their consent. Well, technically, that's not supposed to happen. They can't give permission if someone's incompetent. In practice, this depends on the next of kin and they should refuse to do so. Doctors also have a responsibility here. They are generally also aware of the will of their patient on their own observation, thanks to contact with the patient's GP or as a result of conversations with the family. The present legislative proposal provides in Article 10a, paragraph 5 that the legal representative can fill out the donor form on behalf of a willful person. Article 10a (4) provides that as soon as it is plausible that an authorisation for registration relates to a will-incompetent person, that registration is replaced by a registration authorisation left to a particular person, being the legal representative. It has been chosen to leave this to the legal representative. This is based on the idea that this fits in with the role of the legal representative. That is what I am saying to Mrs Bruins Slot who asked why we chose to do so. The legal representative is involved in all important decisions and can act on behalf of the willless, including on medical matters, for example when it comes to handling it or not. I believe that a legal representative who has been allowed to make all kinds of far-reaching decisions during the life of the willless, before and in the interests of this person, should also be entitled to do so after the death of the willless. Moreover, the legal representative is not the only one who is competent to ask the Minister to change the registration of a willless person, but others can do the same. The most obvious way in which that will go into its work is also a question from Mrs Bruins Slot using a doctor's statement. The Minister will undoubtedly assume that they are correct. Mrs. Bruins Slot has asked how fast that can go. I refer to Article 10a, fourth paragraph of the bill. The person concerned must have received a confirmation within six weeks. If someone's already in the hospital, they could be six weeks too long. In that case, Article 11, second paragraph, is important. Then the legal representative must confirm a consent registration after the death of the person concerned. If he doesn't, or if there is no legal representative, whatever can naturally occur; not every unwilling person has such a legal representative, then the next of kin decide. I would also point out that in today's Wod, Article 4, there is no exclusion from living donation, under the conditions that it is a regenerating organ, that it will not have any lasting effect on the health of the donor and that it is only for the benefit of a blood relative up to and including the second degree that is in danger of life and of interest to the donor. It is then primarily up to the legal representative to decide on this. That is why I think that legal representative is also the right person to make a decision on post-mortem organ donation. The legal representative can also assess whether this is appropriate for the willless, for example because this person always wanted to help others and was very concerned with his fellow man. That's the legal representative's assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u90	Not all non-skills have a legal representative. How does Mrs Dijkstra intend to deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u91	In the case of those who have no legal representative, the next of kin can decide. We were just talking about the people you don't find because they never call in anywhere, don't open the mail and hide a little in society. This is such a point. When it comes to unskilled, family members will know that someone is incompetent and they can report it. I have already mentioned this in the text that I have spoken for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u92	Let me take a look at the current situation. What is Mrs Dijkstra's view of this information? How can we specifically reach those willless and actually incompetent people in such a way that they but also their families understand what to do? It just needs to be arranged properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u93	That is the important point of information and communication. We must ensure that the family and any legal representative are aware of what they can do. We must also ensure that those who do not have a legal representative but who are somehow in a care situation are reached through those channels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u94	Of these, Mrs Dijkstra indicated earlier that an attempt is being made to achieve 100%. The question is, how do we achieve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u95	I have already said in an earlier part of this meeting that I can never say that it can be 100%. That's just impossible. There's no law that can guarantee that. But what you can guarantee is that everything is being done to reach out to those people and that you use the channels that you know people are dealing with and can be informed in that way. I think it is very important, and that is what I am tasting from Mrs Bruins Slot's questions that when the question is raised whether someone who is willless can donate organs because he died or died, then the next of kin will be consulted. The doctors are saying at the moment: we always know that, we know who we are dealing with, because we seek contact with a general practitioner, family or anyone else. If there is a yes registered because the person in question has never responded, then the doctor knows at the time that he is dealing with a will-incompetent person and will ask the next of kin. Contrary to Mrs Bruins Slot's assumption, the draft law does contain a provision allowing the removal of organ donations for those who are unwilling to act without legal representatives. Actually, I just said that. I just have to stick to the text, so I might be able to keep it a little shorter. I refer to Article 11 (2) which provides that, in the absence of a legal representative, the survivors who have to confirm or nullify consent shall be registered as an incompetent State as a person who has given consent. If survivors are also missing or unreachable, this may be important for Mrs Bruins Slot.... the consent is deemed not to have been granted. I'm coming to the practice. I would just like to remind you that while the current legislation formally excludes non-profitable persons, there is no additional provision in the law to ensure that they do not become donors. We've just talked about it in detail. It turns out that doctors always know whether the patient is willing or not. But of course, it is also possible for someone to come in as a victim after a road accident. Is it known, then? Is there enough time to figure it out? I would like to emphasise that in 2014 only 6% of donors were traffic victims. That's similar to previous years. Also then the doctor will approach the family and the general practitioner. There's plenty of time for that, too. Ordering the donation takes a few hours to a day. This means that it is not a requirement within the ADR that the written will not be able to do so at the time the donor form is sent. As in the current situation, we can assume that this becomes clear to the doctors when the question of donation is raised. I'm here to improve the donation process in the hospitals. I've been asked how the current system works. Is there still a profit within the current system? The aim of the master plan and of the minister was to reach 800 transplants in 2013. The master plan dates back to 2008. It would be 25% more than the average between 2005 and 2007. I would point out that this is the lower limit in the master plan. They wanted an improvement of 25% to 50%. That increase had to be structural. We didn't make it in 2013. In 2014, there were better results. In 2013 there were 706 transplants and in 2014 there were 782 transplants. There was an increase of 23% compared to 2005-2007, while the lower limit was 25%, but it was a good result. In 2015, there was a slight decrease. The annual report that has just been published shows that 759 transplants took place in 2015. That is also an improvement; I give it to everyone who says it, but it is not a structural improvement. In 2007 the Great Donorshow took place and a year later the masterplan appeared. Everyone agreed at the time that it could and should be better, but we hardly see an improvement at that time. In the year that everyone said it was really time to change it dramatically, there were 728 transplants. In the meantime, we have stretched the criteria for organ donation. In 2011, the age limit for non-heart-beating donors was increased from 65 to 75. In 2012, for heart-beating donors, those brain-dead donors, the age limit for donating kidneys and livers was reduced. In short, there have been huge changes in the criteria. For other institutions, the maximum age limit shall be 75 years. The increase in the number of potential donors in recent years is therefore mainly due to the extension of the criteria. That is also what KPMG Plexus writes in his report. Mrs Wolbert asked if the hospitals could perform at the peaks of them. Can they still learn from each other? She asked the Minister to do the same. That will undoubtedly give her vision. What I see is that in the current situation hospitals already work together a lot. Since the master plan, meetings and conferences have been held regularly to exchange information among themselves. The Netherlands is divided into seven donation regions. They're all controlled from an academic hospital. Within each donation region, hospitals work together and jointly analyse the results. They exchange experiences with the people in the workplace who are directly involved in the donation process and who are related to donors and their families. Then they can give each other advice, and they will. The design of the donation process in the different regions is largely uniform. There may be a single difference, but the process is basically arranged everywhere according to the model of the pilot in Groningen. That's a successful pilot. So there are no major differences, I say to Mrs Wolbert. The fact that it can always be done better is undoubtedly true, but I would like to ask whether that is enough. The visitation system mentioned by Mrs Wolbert could certainly contribute to this. That is a very good suggestion as far as I am concerned. Mrs Bruins Slot asked about the pilots carried out under the Master Plan Organ donation under the heading quality improvement in hospitals. She says: you actually have to wait and see the results before you come up with a legislative amendment. I just mentioned Groningen. The pilot aims at improving the donor recruitment structure within the donor region, with the focus on identifying potential donors, the consent interview with next of kin and the donation procedure. KPMG Plexus concludes that there appears to be a cautious increase in the consent rate and number of transplanted organs, but a specification of the quantitative results is difficult. The other pilot was the pilot Leiden. It provides for independent take-out teams. Such a team consists of a transplant surgeon, an assistant surgeon, an anesthesiologist and two Ok assistants. This pilot has now been rolled out in all regions and is used in organ donation procedures in almost all hospitals in the Netherlands. The doctors in the independent take-out team are specially trained and have experience with the take-out, making time savings, which improves the quality of the organs. KPMG Plexus concludes with respect to this pilot that a slight but not significant increase is visible in the number of transplanted organs. So I think that the pilots have continued until 2016, and so do the results, I say to Mrs Bruins Slot. The pilots on improving the quality of hospitals have just been proposed in the Master Plan Organ Donation together with the introduction of the ADR system. They must be complementary and mutually reinforcing. I'm pleading for and-and. The improvement that has been made with the pilots in the hospitals and which can be made even further, can certainly benefit the number of transplants. That still doesn't take away, with all the pilots you run, that people have to register as an organ donor. We do not know about 60% of the Dutch. You can do a lot in that quality improvement and in the organization, but with everything you do, you need organs. Waiting until these pilots have been completed and the final evaluation has been done is therefore not, as far as I am concerned, a prerequisite for a new registration system. Ms Dik-Faber mentioned a number of issues affecting the number of donors, including the organisation of the donation process in hospitals, the average age of donors, developments regarding relevant mortality, the approach of survivors and public information. She asked if I agree with her that there is still much to be done on some of these points. I have just said that in recent years a great deal of energy and time has been put into improving the donation process. It turns out, for example, that donor recognition is going very well. Doctors receive training to conduct the donation interview with the next of kin and a lot of information has been done. Those are valuable developments, but it still lingers on the percentage of people registered in the donor registry. That's gonna sting around 40%. I refer again to the Coordination Group Organ Donation (CGOD), which represents all field parties and patient organisations. He sent a letter to the Minister on this subject, mentioning the low level of registration as the main bottleneck. That is the core problem within the current system. Initiatives in other areas cannot solve the negative effects of this low level of registration. I would therefore like to draw Mrs Dik-Faber's attention to a passage in a 2008 note from her own group. Her group then supported a motion by Mrs Kant of the SP to move on to the Active Donor Registration System. The note states: "The group was prepared to take a major step in 2005. At that time, this did not lead to the support of a majority in the Chamber for the motion we wanted. But in the field of information, the necessary measures have been taken. In any case, it is wise to wait for the results first. If these results are disappointing, the question again is "what now?" As far as I am concerned, the question 'what now' is really on the agenda. The ADR system, which is in place today, really meets the conditions of the Christian Union. It is a system which, in any case, excludes the risk of incorrect registrations, respects the role of survivors and does justice to the different views that live. I therefore hope that the Christian Union will reconsider this amendment. I have also been asked to reflect on the possibilities that the technique can offer. You can see very nice developments and innovative opportunities. Mr Rutte talked about improving organs in the perfusion machine. This can make lungs and livers that had to be rejected earlier suitable for transplantation. In the perfusion chamber the organ is provided with oxygen and nutrients. It's better to keep an organ on ice. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that the expectations of the perfusion chamber are not too high, because for kidney and pancreas transplantation there are no data yet that show that machine perfusion leads to an increase in transplantable organs. We also need more organs to make organs available for transplantation by means of technology. So we need organ donors. The reason we have an organ perfusion chamber is not purely positive. In the Netherlands, we use relatively many organs of older donors and donors who have died as a result of a circulation freeze. These are lower-quality organs, which now need to be improved with the help of machines. That that can be done is fantastic. It helps, but it's not enough. With the standard use of mobile machine reservation, excluded kidneys are better stored and transported. Mrs. Bruins Slot mentioned stem cell technology. That technique will make it possible in the future to grow organs for people in, for example, pigs. Although it's gonna take a lot of time. At the moment, the CRISPR-Cas method referred to by Mrs Bruins Slot is still in the lab phase. I'm sorry about the jargon, but Mrs. Bruins Slot knows what I'm talking about. I do not think that we have a long way to go, either, because we still have a lot of ethical questions to discuss with each other before that happens. In the short term, therefore, it does not offer a perspective. There is no example of a system that works exactly the same as my proposal, the D66 proposal, although the system introduced in Wales on 1 December 2015 comes close. I now come to effectiveness. Mrs Wolbert asked what motivation was behind the change in the system in Wales. The main reason for the government in Wales was that too many people, who could otherwise have been helped with a donor organ, die on the waiting list every year. Furthermore, the population in Wales is a large majority in favour of organ donation. As in the Netherlands, it did not translate into the number of registrations. Of the total population in the United Kingdom, only one third registered with yes in the donor register. If the donation question had to be asked to the next of kin, 40% of the next of kin refused. Wales thought that too often, because if there is a registration, only 5% of the next of kin refuses. The expected effectiveness of the soft opt-out system was also reason to do so in Wales. Research underlying the proposed change in Wales is based on an increase of 25% in the number of organ donations. You can almost make this one-on-one apply to the Dutch situation. In the Netherlands, too, people die every year, because no donor body becomes available on time. Surveys show that the Dutch population is willing to be organ donors by a large majority, but only 25% are registered as yes. If there is no record, 65% of the next of kin will refuse organ donation. Finally, it emerged from the Master Plan organ donation that the introduction of an ADR system, supported by accompanying measures, could lead to 25% more organ donations. That also looks very much like the Netherlands. I would actually like to say to Mrs Wolbert that the situation in Wales is very similar to the Dutch situation and that it really is Wales' motivation to increase the number of registered organ donors. I have been asked to compare the various studies carried out on the impact of the registration system. It is clear that not all studies show a clear picture. There are many factors that differ from one country to another and they make these comparisons very difficult. The Minister has already stated that there are several investigations and that they contradict each other. She mentioned Coppen's research, which shows that another donor registration system is unlikely to produce more donor organs, but she also cited Horvath's research, which shows that in countries where people are automatically donors, more kidney transplants occur with an organ of a deceased donor. By the way, you can see that there are fewer living donors there. The differences between the investigations made that the Minister did not want or dared to take the step at the time, I do not know; the Minister himself will tell us something about it to move to a no-objection system. I assume the Minister himself will take this into account. However, the data clearly show that having a non-objection system is consistent and very strongly associated with having more donors. Of the ten countries in Europe with the most postmortem organ donations, nine have a non-objection system. A very comprehensive study from 2007 compares 34 countries and concludes that a non-objection system generates 21% to 26% more donors. In 2012, a study was conducted in 44 countries and this study shows that the number of post-mortem kidney transplants is higher in a country with a non-objection system. It is concluded that the number of post-mortem organ donations in these comparisons is really higher in countries with such a non-objection system. In countries with a consent system, the number of living organ donations is higher again, but even if you take them with you in total, more organ transplants take place in countries with a non-objection system. This effect was still present in this study. I think it is important to say that it also corrected the number of road victims, the gross national product, the number of ic-beds and religion. All this has been taken into account and these figures are known on this basis. However, you will always be able to give examples of countries with a non-objection system that score worse than countries with a consent system, because the effectiveness of a donor system is very much linked to this, and we have already talked about this with the other measures that are being taken, such as organisational measures. This can be seen, for example, in the system change in Sweden and Italy. Mrs Dik-Faber felt that the system changes in Sweden and Italy had had no effect at all. I really need to nuance that image. In Sweden, the number of post-mortal donations rose from 11.1 in 1996 to 12.6 in 1997 and 14.4 in 1998. The fact that this increase did not continue is mainly due to the lack of accompanying policy, the aspect that we consider so important in the master plan. By the way, Sweden is not one-on-one comparable to the Netherlands. For example, the Swedish system differs from the proposed ADR system, because Sweden does not have a closed registration system. Only 15% are registered. If no registration is known, a yes is assumed, but the next of kin make the final decision. In addition, only brain-dead donors are used in Sweden. That is also an aspect that we must look at carefully. In the Netherlands, donors who died after a circulation stop are also used, and they account for more than half of our total number of donors. If you compare Sweden and the Netherlands in terms of the number of donors per million inhabitants and if you only look at brain-dead donors, you can see that Sweden is doing twice as well as we are doing. Mrs Dik-Faber also mentioned Italy. There, a legally non-objection system was introduced in 1999, and you can see that there the number of organ donations has increased to 21.7 donors per million inhabitants in 2013. With this Italy is clearly doing better than the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, we had 15.9 donors per million inhabitants in the same year. Interestingly, there were strong regional differences within Italy. This was partly caused by the organizational design of the donation network. Again, I see the evidence that accompanying policies are very important. I would also like to draw attention to other countries where the introduction of a non-objection system immediately had a strong effect. The number of kidney donors in Belgium increased by 86% following the introduction of a non-objection system. In the five years following its introduction, the number of donors increased by 55%. Mrs Voortman asked how the debate on self-determination took place in Belgium. The current legislation in Belgium dates back to 1986. There was then a very large majority in the Chamber of Representatives who agreed to the legislative amendment. I checked it again in the Acts of the Belgian Parliament. Of the 190 members present, 154 agreed. There were 31 votes against and 14 abstentions. Nor was it the ethical debate as we know it in the Netherlands. The non-objection system seems to be widely accepted in Belgium. You're an automatic donor, and if you don't want to do that, you're gonna have to set up the hallway to get a record that you don't want to be. The objection is therefore much more difficult than in the system proposed by D66, as I say in reply to Mr Rutte's question why we did not opt for a non-objection system. In Belgium, by the way, about 190,000 people have objected. That's less than 2% of the population. More people went to City Hall to register yes. About 215,000 people have actively said yes. In that case, next of kin have nothing more to say about donation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u96	Let me see if you're done with this cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mrs Klever also mentioned Belgium. She said the relationship between yes and no is fifty-fifty there. That's about right when you look at the people who registered, but there's only a very small number registered. In total, about 98.3% are registered as yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u98	Earlier today I referred to Mr Engberts, an ethicist at the LUMC. At the same meeting I referred to earlier, he said: I know almost no foreigner abroad than Belgium; if I cross the border in the east of the country, I come to a country that looks a bit like the Netherlands, but I cross the border in the south, then I really come abroad. It is sometimes complicated to compare Belgium with the Netherlands. The countries are different. Self-determination is a much larger theme in the Netherlands and there are also cultural differences. That might explain something, but still. Back to Belgium. Mrs Dijkstra also acknowledges that the system in Belgium is really different from the legislative proposal she is putting down here. In Belgium you have a no-objection system. You can explicitly register yes there and explicitly no. In all other cases there is indeed a conversation with the next of kin, but it is said that no objection has been registered, you can object. If Mrs Dijkstra believes in such a non-objection system, why didn't she put down a bill that looks like this? I don't understand, with all the confusion this bill causes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u99	I was explicitly asked about that comparison and that is why I make it. Mr Rutte is now pretending to think that this is a better system. No, I'll describe that. I think I should give a very honest answer. I also have to say that this is how it is regulated in Belgium. When comparing countries, you always have to take into account the culture of such a country. On the contrary, I do so very explicitly in the ADR, because self-determination is paramount in the ADR. That means making your own choice, more than at the moment. I do not understand why so much emphasis is being placed on the next of kin here. Mr Rutte is quite right that in the Netherlands we are much more concerned with self-determination and freedom of choice for the individual. Now we're gonna say, if we're gonna table a bill like that, the next of kin will have to make that decision eventually. I would have liked to have said that in the direction of Mr Rutte. I have really tried to empathize with the major objections that apparently live with the VVD against our bill. I always come out on the left or right that we all have the same goal. The end does not justify all means, but we do want to find the means that brings us closest to our goal. In our view, this is the means that brings us closest to our goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u100	I am thinking so much about this, because the legislative proposal, the explanatory memorandum and now the explanatory statement always refer to other countries that have opt-out systems, as if they were all the same and as if Mrs Dijkstra's bill would therefore be equally effective. I do not make that comparison; it makes the performer herself constantly to prove that her bill is good. If she believes in this, why does she make a bill so fundamentally different from how the law works in Belgium, for example? I can't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u101	I did give you that answer. We are looking at a system that fits the Dutch situation. We look at a system in which you arrange for people to register and choose for themselves. Mr Rutte asks why I do not rule that they should not object. Look at Belgium. There are very few people there who object. What's the background to that? We choose much more for ourselves: let us know. If you want to decide for yourself and you want to be an organ donor... So I'm not used to you getting notes. The Minister does. I'm getting distracted right away. That's how it goes. So we opt for a system in which people let themselves know. If you want to be an organ donor, but you find the hassle to let me know and it doesn't come out then you're an organ donor. We're very consciously communicating that. Therefore, there should be no difference between one yes and the other yes, in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u102	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u103	I was talking about Belgium. I have already said to Mrs Klever that this 50% applies only to those who are registered. Furthermore, a very large proportion of the population is organ donor. Mrs. Voortman asked me about the French system. France has a no-objection system since 1976. Objection can also be made there in a special register. In July 2015, there were only 120,000 people who had objected in that large country. Despite the supposed consent, which the French system assumes, survivors can still object to organ donation. In 2013, 32.9% of potential donors did not make organ donation because they refused to do so, which is really too high in France. That is why they are now in the process of amending the law to strengthen the principle of supposed consent. If that law is passed, no organ donation shall be made unless opposition has been registered in the national register. The family doesn't need to be asked for permission anymore. That's pretty far-reaching. This also goes far beyond our ADR system. Mrs Wolbert asked about Austria and Spain. They also have a no-objection system. Spain has been the frontrunner for years. Contrary to what is often thought, this is not about a larger number of road accidents, because this has been decreasing for years. Austria has had a no-objection system since 1982. Between 1982 and 1990, the number of postmortem organ donations quadrupled. I think I've made an exhaustive comparison with overseas. There is one important study which was referred to by colleagues in the Chamber and that is the investigation into the effectiveness of the research firm Panteia. This study compares three systems: the current consent system, a compulsory selection system and the Active Donor Registration System that I propose. Mrs. Wolbert asked me how I look at that investigation. It was said that it would not be effective. The analysis of the effectiveness of the current system is based on the survey's replies rather than on the actual figures. According to the investigation, 27% of people in the consent system would not make a choice. The reality is that 60% doesn't make a choice. According to the investigation, 40% would itself authorise organ donation, i.e. actively register. In practice, that is only 25%. The effectiveness is then calculated on the basis of those percentages, i.e. those virtual figures generated by the survey. The whole practice of 18 years Law on organ donation is ignored. In addition, the investigation also reveals that if no registration is known, 13% of the next of kin will certainly object and 21% may object. I'd almost say, "Dream on." Because in practice 65% of the survivors object. There's a lot of work to be done on this investigation. I would like to give this to those who consider this study to be very important in the assessment of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u104	Like Mrs Dijkstra, I have heard a lot of criticism of this investigation. However, the question is whether there are research data that are more reliable and valid than these. Or should we do it with some sort of assembly of all sorts of numbers from all kinds of other investigations? Isn't that unreliable, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u105	I have indicated the figures on which this study is based. I find that quite remarkable. The master plan also looked at the different forms of consent systems or active donor registration systems. On the basis of the figures at that time, the effectiveness was taken into account. As far as I am concerned, these figures are still very reliable, also in view of the parties who are part of the Coordination Group on Organ donation and who have designed this master plan. That's a very reliable partner if you want to know what to look at. But of course, the system we are proposing does not exist in other countries. So it's very difficult to compare. However, you can say one thing about all those countries where the non-objection system applies. For example, Wales has something very similar to our system. The number of organ donors almost doubled in the first few months following the legislative amendment. In those two months, six out of 15 donors were due to the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u106	I wouldn't dare draw that last conclusion, at least if you just look at it numerically. There was indeed a new system, but a new system is always accompanied by a lot of publicity and campaigns. I would not like to take over Mrs Dijkstra's one-to-one redirection. However, I agree with Mrs Dijkstra that Panteia's research is not valid, to say the least. That is not helping us with the decision-making process. However, does this not mean that, if a decision has been taken, we should also look at it at European level? Doesn't that mean that, where we can make a comparison, we should do it right for once? The decision-making process and the systems are changing throughout Europe. It would be extremely helpful in the future to obtain as many comparable figures as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u107	As I have just said in the little debate with Mr Rutte, the culture of these various countries is very important. So it probably remains very difficult to make a direct comparison. That is why it is very important to look at the effect in practice. I'll get to that in a minute. I come to the end of my speech. Mrs Voortman asked an important question about measuring effectiveness. Shouldn't an evaluation clause be included for this purpose? It is true that there is no explicit assessment clause in the legislative proposal. The current law on organ donation, which amends this bill, contains an assessment clause in Article 35 (2). It states that within three years and then after five and seven years after the entry into force of this law, the Minister shall report to the States General on the effectiveness and effects of this law in practice. As far as I am concerned, this provision will continue to apply to any amended law. Whether the proposed system is effective should therefore come out of that evaluation. Mr. President, I'm almost there. I would like to thank everyone very much for their attention and the colleagues from the various groups for their questions. I am convinced that a change to the registration system is an important step, which we should not delay further. This can lead to an increase in the number of donors and transplants. Actually, I'm assuming, but I'm still making the next call. I hope that each party will come to a very careful balance, considering that there is division in its own constituency, but that the majority of the Dutch are in favour of a change to an active donor registration system. I would very much like to conclude with a quote from the Coordination Group Organ Donation. In 2007 that's nine years ago.... said he: "In conclusion we note that we should not be walking into the pitfalls of the past ten years. Improvement actions cannot be successful if they are isolated from other activities. Expressions that there should be "better campaigns," that "the doctor should ask the next of kin more often" or "it" in hospitals should "just be better regulated" do not make a substantial contribution to the discussion and do not lead to a solution-oriented approach." Her conclusion was as follows: "Integral and solidarity must therefore be the key words for the donor debate of the future, leaving behind for good the non-committalism, which has run through the subject for ten years as a thread." We are now almost ten years away, but unfortunately it is still topical. I hope we will not have to say that again in ten years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u108	Thank you, Mrs Pia Dijkstra. The Minister would now make a brief contribution in her role as advisor to the Chamber, but before she does, I would like to suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u109	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Dijkstra very much for her passionate speech and for the energy she has put into the legislative proposal. It's quite a job. Questions were also put to me during the first period of the plenary debate on the initiative proposal. I'll be happy to answer that. Before I do that, I'll give you a few considerations. We are talking about a subject with numerous medical, social, ethical and practical dilemmas. This was already apparent during treatment in the first term. This is also evident in the social debate on organ donation. It's one of the greatest gifts you can give to another, alive or after your death: one of your organs. It's important that you make a conscious choice about that. The fact that this is close to my heart is demonstrated by the fact that I made that choice at the age of 12. Ever since I could do it, I've been carrying a donor codicil. I would very much like every Dutchman to make that choice so aware that as many people as possible register as a donor and that we can give the more than 900 people on the waiting lists a new life and prevent nearly 150 people from dying every year due to a lack of donors. Unfortunately, this is not possible with simple solutions. It's about a sensitive subject on the border of life and death. The greater the social and political support for a system, the greater its impact. A lot of research has been done over the years on the different systems. There are many countries with different systems. There are also many countries that have moved from one system to another, with varying degrees of success. In accordance with the coalition agreement, I do not express an opinion on the own-initiative proposal on the ADR. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. The way in which the Court has spoken about this in the first place gives me the confidence that it will make that judgment very carefully. The most important thing is to answer the key question: will a change in the registration system actually lead to more successful transplants and thus save lives? A system of active donor registration is a means, not a goal. It is also a major tool. You don't just put that in. In my opinion, it must be clear or at least plausible that it will make a significant contribution to achieving your objective, namely a significant increase in the number of organ transplants. There are doubts about that. Any spokesperson will be able to weigh those doubts himself. I have a number of considerations for which I would like to draw the attention of the Chamber. Are we sufficiently convinced that a new system will significantly increase the number of organ transplants? That is what my first consideration is about. Research does not clearly show that another decision-making system in the Netherlands will lead to significantly more organ transplants. Whether an objection system, such as the ADR system, is much more effective than our current consent system, is unclear. National and international investigations contradict each other on this point. That is also very practical, because for any opinion you can find an investigation that supports that opinion. Experience in other countries also does not provide a clear picture. On average, countries with an objection system perform better than countries with a consent system. In Europe, in opt-out countries such as Spain, with 90 transplants per million inhabitants, and Austria, with 92 per million inhabitants, there were clearly more transplants per million inhabitants than in the Netherlands, with 78 transplants per million inhabitants. That makes 12 and 14 transplants per million more per year. Mr President, I see someone at the interrupting microphone. You want me to finish this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u110	Maybe that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u111	But in opt-out countries like Belgium, with 83 transplants per million inhabitants, and Sweden, with 80 transplants per million inhabitants, there are 5 and 2 more respectively. This is not very different from the number in the Netherlands. Moreover, the Netherlands has relatively many transplants for an opt-in country, mainly due to the large number of living donors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u112	What does the Minister mean by "significant"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u113	I just turned that in. If you look at the results in Spain and Austria, you can see that there are 90 donations per million inhabitants compared to 78 in the Netherlands. That's considerably more. However, if you compare it with Belgium and Sweden, then I do not think two are significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u114	I agree with the Minister, although, of course, we are literally talking about life and death here. This legal treatment has already shown in detail that it concerns people who are in uncertainty for a long time. I always find it difficult to make comparisons, but if we could change the number of road deaths by 10% or 20% by means of a registration system, we would proceed very quickly. In this case, there's a waiting list, which means 150 people die unnecessarily every year. I deliberately make the percentages very small, but doesn't the minister think they're significant when you look at the individual and the stories behind them? I like to get a reflection from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u115	I shall come back to that in my further speech, because I have three major considerations. They stand on their own, but you can choose to want all three of them or find one interchangeable with the other. It is a huge monk's work to read them all through, but it is not really clear from those studies that the sec is due to the system that there are obviously great differences and certainly not from the research that Mr Pechtold asked me to look at, in which a comparison between 48 countries was made. That is also very clear in the conclusion. If you look at the system for a second, there is not a very clear conclusion to draw. There are a lot of aspects around it. I will come back to some of them, but the first point I want to make is that the system alone does not show any unambiguous results. Of course there are studies in the package that show it on one side and do not show it on the other. That's also the hard part about this story, because you're gonna beat each other up before you know it. That's why I only put it all together a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u116	In my view, one thing can be identified from all these studies, and that is that it will not make the situation worse and will increase the chances of the number of donors increasing. Surely that's the conclusion you can draw from all these investigations if you stick a satepokker through it. Because the Minister took the word "significant" a few times and we are talking about relatively small numbers in practice, I think it is so important and we cannot ignore the fact that the average of the studies and their results is a substantial improvement on the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u117	But I am talking, for example, about Spain, with 90 per million inhabitants. It should be noted that in the system in Spain a doctor is paid per donation. That also seems to me to be a not negligible incentive. So what's it about? Is it the ADR system, the payment or the hierarchy between doctor and patient that you clearly see in Spain while you are more partners in the Netherlands? The point is, it's much more complex and diffuser. The more research you read, the less bright I actually think it's gonna be. Let me explain this further. Those are the images I would like to outline, but I leave the weighting to the Chamber itself, of course. The Netherlands looks pretty good, but that is mainly because we have a large number of living donors. As I have already said, it is difficult to attribute the differences between countries only to the decision-making system. Other factors also play a role, such as the hospital approach, the way in which information is provided and the number of road victims substantially higher in other countries than in the Netherlands. I would like to draw your attention to the report on road safety in the European Union which has just been issued. Fortunately, the Netherlands scored very low with 28 road victims per million inhabitants. Only Malta scores 26 lower. Spain scores 36 higher. The EU average is 51 and in Belgium there are 64. So there are considerable differences between them. But the age of donors is also important. In addition, the interaction with donation in life and the role of next of kin appears to be an uncertain factor. Culture and religion in a country are also involved. For example, the relationship between doctor and patient in Spain is much more hierarchical and managerial. In the Netherlands, the doctor and the patient are much more of each other's partners, as I said. I also said that doctors in Spain are paid for every donation. I do not read that aspect in the studies, but it is an inexplicable incentive. The Court may imagine that next of kin would then be more compellingly informed about organ donation. Countries whose inhabitants are predominantly Catholic also have a somewhat greater willingness to donate. In the Netherlands, for example, the number of registered persons is highest in North Brabant and Limburg. We also see a difference in the quality of donated organs. For example, Spain has many older donors, which means that the percentage of only but rejected organs in that country is high. It's a big distortion and it makes it difficult to compare. When we look at the countries around us, it is striking that Belgium has shown a positive effect on the transition to an objection system. The situation in Belgium in 1986 was very different from that in the Netherlands. The transition in Belgium took place at an early stage of kidney transplants. Countries such as Austria, Italy and Sweden also have an objection system. There is no clear effect from its introduction. In Austria and Italy, for example, there was already a strong growth in the number of donors. In Sweden, the number of donors decreased just after the introduction of an objection system. A transition to the opt-out system in France and Brazil had a damaging effect on donation, partly motivated by more distrust towards doctors. 2014 Council of Europe figures show that the Netherlands is in the top ten EU countries with the highest number of transplanted patients per million inhabitants. Our country is hardly inferior to countries with an objection system, such as Sweden and Belgium. As I said, this has to do with, among other things, the relatively high number of donations in life. Some studies suggest that the effect of introducing an objection system may be to reduce significantly the number of donations in life. Even if we look at the number of patients on the waiting lists per million inhabitants, the Netherlands scores better than other countries, also in comparison with countries with an objection system, such as France and Belgium. In conclusion, whether transition to another decision-making system in our country leads to more organ transplants is uncertain. Neither research nor experience in other countries is conclusive on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u118	There is a second consideration. Research carried out in October 2015 shows that 57% of respondents are willing to donate organs and/or tissues after their death. However, only 26% of people over 18 are registered as donors. It's not for nothing that there's such a big difference. There are all kinds of considerations... oh, sorry, chairman. I didn't even notice the interruptions. Are they going over the last block? Then why don't I stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u119	Then the Minister will stop for a moment and I shall first give the floor to Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u120	...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u121	Oh, the mic was off. I always leave it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u122	I'll bring my own batteries next time. The Minister forgives me that I will allow the barrage of numbers from her interpretations of the investigations to work on me again quietly through the Acts. I have a question about the first block. In it, the Minister began to say that she had a neutral attitude in accordance with the coalition agreement. I believe, however, that the Commission has mainly taken the restrictive and negative aspects into account in the investigations. Or her officials happened to look at the preparation of the text with those glasses that day. Spain, for example, was often mentioned by the Minister. You can also see that the number of donors has increased, while the number of road victims has decreased by 72%. These figures therefore show a positive effect. But that is how we get very deep into the matter and I do not want to challenge the Minister for that. I ask the Minister, after she has read out all the figures from those reports, whether the cabinet is still in a neutral position when it comes to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u123	Yes, but the proposal for an own-initiative act does entail a significant change in the system. Then I think it is also my job to look at the investigations into the purpose of this system change. This is a means; it is not an end. Then it is clear that we are looking closely at the investigations. You could also ask me: why did not the cabinet itself make this proposal? The answer to that question lies partly in looking at the investigations. I am not saying that a change in the system will reduce the number of donors. I'm saying it's insecure. You specifically asked me to look into one investigation. I read that one more time last night. You were all still working here, so I could follow two things with one eye at a time. I have noticed that a lot of comments have been made on revenue, which I would like to mention here in the debate. I have indicated in my text that the non-objection system leads to more donors and more transplants, but there are a number of comments. It is my job to make those comments to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u124	I am pleased that almost the entire cabinet last night has been busy serving the country and preparing for today. We don't expect anything else. Well, let me put it a little more clearly. If the Minister summarises all these reports, it is of course her job to comment on them, but I do not think that these reports are entirely realistic. If you throw it all into a pile and if you look right through it, you can see that this system is leading to improvement. That is why my question was also what the Minister meant by'significant'. That's what I think we agree on. Of course, but every human life counts and I would say: if a new system leads to a reduction in those 150 deaths a year by 10, 20 or 30%, it would be incredibly important for my group and I hope for this cabinet as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u125	Yes, of course. We all strive for the maximum number of donors. I think the way you look at the subject is inspired by the success of the proposals you make. Ethical objections can outweigh one proposal, because they have less results than the other. I could imagine that. The study I have just mentioned, with the 48 countries, makes it clear that, despite the fact that you are getting more organ donors after death, in systems the number of living donors is much higher. That's right. That's what you see in the Netherlands. If you look with a big eye at what I have in front of me here, unfortunately we don't have a beamer here, then you see a whole picture spread over Europe and then the Netherlands is pretty good. That is a very different place from the one I am listening to, from which I could draw the conclusion that we are actually doing very badly. That's just not true. The need to do better is obvious. We work on that every day. I'll get back to you on that. The central question today is what is the best way to do it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u126	I see a couple of interrupters standing by the microphones. I think Mr Rutte was the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u127	I like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u128	Well, that's great. In her first-term reply, Mrs Dijkstra made a few firm comments on a Panteia report to which I referred in my speech. I knew I had something else somewhere that had similar conclusions, namely the Master Plan Organ Donation itself. The Panteia study, which Mrs Dijkstra believes would be wrong, because it concludes that ADR can produce up to the same number of actual donations as the current system, has drawn the same conclusion as Van Raij and Taels in the Master Plan Organ Donation. It states: "The effectiveness of alternative decision-making systems and repeated actions, i.e. the expected number of donors per year, does not exceed the effectiveness of the current system. Although the ADR system with two types of 'yes' scores percent higher in this study, the final number of consents for donation does not appear to be significantly higher than among other systems." Further on, it says that this is mainly due to the next of kin consents that might be worse in the new systems. Does the Minister agree that the two investigations in which the Dutch situation was examined are indeed correct, and that the conclusions should therefore also be taken seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u129	I myself have not come to the conclusion that one system is more effective than another. I'm just saying that we now have a lot of donations in life and that number could decrease if the number of donations on death goes up. Well, that's a lot to come back to in the studies. However, we do not know whether that is the case. So I do not want to say very clearly: one system does this and the other one does that. The Panteia study is a study of people's motivations, using surveys, because there is no practical information available in two of the three systems. As Mrs Dijkstra said, all these systems have their own peculiarities and characteristics, and each system is unique. This is why the Panteia study has chosen surveys of the motivations of people. The fact that surveys have been carried out is well known: it is included in the projection question. I don't think you're doing justice to Panteia research by putting it away easily, but you have to judge it based on what's been viewed. You don't have to draw any conclusions that you can't draw from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u130	That would be the last thing I want. However, two extensive studies have been carried out in the Netherlands on the effectiveness of the new system within the Dutch situation. This could not be tested before, because the ADR system did not exist anywhere. Does the Minister agree with me that both investigations come to the same conclusion, namely that in the best case case you come to the same number of donations, and not to more, unlike in the foreign systems when you compare them with the Dutch system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u131	Investigations draw their own conclusions. The studies that we have been going through before this debate have raised the standard very strongly. If it's the standard in a country that you're a donor, people think it's the norm rather than the standard that you're not a donor. How that works in the Netherlands is very difficult to predict. It is quite clear that it is a trend that you see coming back in those investigations. I've tried to look at all these investigations as neutrally as possible. My conclusion is that based on those investigations, I can't say that if you switch to an ADR system, you're sure of more organ donations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u132	I agree with the Minister that we are doing very well with the current system in the Netherlands. We do it reasonably in a European comparison. The Minister rightly notes that we have many donations alive in the Netherlands. The next step in her reasoning is that she doesn't know what happens to organ donations when we switch to another system. There is even hesitation as to whether the number of donations in life would not go down. I'd say the glass is half full or half empty. With the current situation in the Netherlands, we are not getting anywhere: we are not moving forward, we are not going backwards; we are doing well, but we can do much better. It may be a difference of interpretation, but I note that the Minister interprets this data more negatively than I would. Are there any data from which you can easily conclude that the number of donations in life, when the system changes, does not remain at the same level? Because that means you have a lot more growth space for the number of donations after death. Shouldn't you bet on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u133	The study by Shepherd et al in BMC Medicine in 2014 states that the percentage of donations in life is higher under opt-in than under opt-out. It also states that there are still significant waiting lists under opt-out systems and there are still organ deficits. So I would just like to say that it is not the ones who oppose this change, the fact that there are people on waiting lists and all the dramas associated with it, and that people who are in favour of the system change, solve that with that system change. On the basis of the investigations, I would like to make a nuance of what we should expect from such a system change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u134	My question is exactly what the Minister is getting out of this investigation. The Minister concludes that the number of donations to life would be reduced. But you cannot conclude that on the basis of the investigation the Minister himself quotes. The Netherlands has a relatively high number of organ donations in life and there is no one who says that goes down. The only conclusion that can be drawn from this study is that the non-opt-out countries have a lower level. No one's saying it's going down. If we manage in the Netherlands to keep the number of donations alive at the level we have now, a change to an ADR system could indeed lead to a lot more donations, because the number of donations in case of death would increase. You'll have a lot more donations on balance. That's my reasoning, and the Minister doesn't say anything in my opinion that contradicts that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u135	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u136	My reasoning is that the glass is half full or half empty. No one says that the relatively high number of organ donations in life in the Netherlands would go down in a system change. It is important to note that. That's one of the reasons why I think it can only grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u137	I haven't noticed that at all. Mrs Wolbert puts something in my mouth that I do not see. I notice you have an opt-out system and an opt-in system. Research shows that in opt-in systems, the number of life donations is higher. I can see that. Does that mean that we suddenly see that number fall in the event of a system change? You don't have to do that. I'm not distracting from anything. I can't see that that happened either. I'm just noticing what I'm getting out of these tests. I do so at the request of Mrs Wolbert, who asked me to give a sketch. This is what I get out of it. I don't prelude at all to a decrease. All I'm saying is that if you put these investigations next to each other, if you look at the situation in those countries and compare them, then I have to say that the number of donations in the Netherlands, compared to other countries, is very high. Even if you compare it to other opt-in countries. Germany has a much lower number of donations in life and that also has an opt-in system. So I'm not saying that all opt-in systems all have high living donors rates. That's not true, either. I am only drawing the conclusions from the study that Mr Pechtold specifically asked me to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u138	I have three questions about numbers. It's complicated, but I think it's important. First of all, a question about Sweden. The Minister says that when the system was changed, the increase in the number of donations was not substantial. But is it true that the figure in Sweden was 11.1 in 1996 and that it rose to 15.8 in 2013? That's my first question. The second question concerns the figures mentioned by the Minister. There would be hardly any difference in the number of donations per million. Is it true that she made this comparison, including the number of living donors? Wouldn't it be more correct to compare the number of post-mortem donors? Does she want to make such a comparison again? My third question concerns the Panteia research, which has been criticized by several people. What do the researchers of Panteia themselves say? "There is therefore perhaps a difference between intent and behaviour when completing the survey, which makes people overestimate their propensity to give permission." This concerns the propensity of next of kin to consent. Panteia assumes that only one third will not give permission and that two thirds are inclined to do so, while the practice is reversed: two thirds of the next of kin does not give permission at this time. Does that not indicate that Panteia's conclusion that the different systems do not make much difference is actually not sustainable? After all, the Panteia research is based on a fictional survey. We have to put the real figures aside, and they are much more worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u139	Is there gonna be another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u140	Three questions have already been asked. I'd like to answer that first. When you ask about people's motivations in surveys, you get an answer to the question about people's motivations. That's Panteia's investigation. You might get socially desirable answers. This is demonstrated by a comparison of the practice of surveys and what is actually happening. Mr Van Gerven asks me to make a comparison with only post-mortem organs. I can do that, but Mr Van Gerven assumes that there is no connection whatsoever. But it's about how you score as a country with available organs and how you can enlarge the organs as a country, so you're off that wretched waiting list and people can actually be helped. With those eyes, you look at it. Of course, the Netherlands is obviously much lower in postmortem. We'll boost it up with our living donors. There's no misunderstanding about that. The third question was about Sweden. I just said that in Sweden, the number of donors fell after the introduction of the Objection System. In terms of total score, it is remarkable how close the Netherlands and Sweden are to the number of donors. That's what I said. These are factual observations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u141	Then the conclusion I have drawn remains that a theoretical survey does not correspond to reality and that it is very relevant that in practice we know now, the refusal by two thirds of the next of kin to make organ donations of their loved ones turns out to be negative. In reality, that's more negative than Panteia concludes. I think this is essential. Then the point of living organ donations. Is it not true that this is a second best solution and that in the situation where the need is high we in the Netherlands have found people willing to donate alive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u142	And what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u143	Shouldn't it be that we shouldn't need living donations because we have sufficient post-mortem donors? It is commendable that it is happening, but it is actually a signal that we do not get what should be in it in terms of post-mortem donors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u144	Here's the question. Ladies and gentlemen, can we agree that the questions are a little more concise? You have a second term at some point. These are a lot of reflections, and the questions you have to look for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u145	Panteia conducts research in which three systems are put side by side. Two of these three systems have no practical information. A method has been sought and that is that you ask with the help of surveys about the motivations of people. You can judge that as you wish, but that's the investigation. No more and no less. Secondly, you are pretending that I do not want to have any more post-mortem organs at my disposal. I'd really like that. I wish we didn't have a waiting list at all. We have a search with each other to get the number as high as possible. That's what this search is about. Then you have to see what will and will not work. Part of it is watching coffee. That's all we get together. It is true that living donors generally improve the quality of organs. That's very nice. If it weren't necessary, I'd love it. If there was a choice, I'd love it. I want to solve this problem like no other. The question is what solutions you are looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u146	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u147	So far, we have been debating it in three terms. It's a legal procedure. If the President will allow me, I would like a third deadline for this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u148	The last few months have always been used here to apply two deadlines. If it's three times, it's three times, but then I'm gonna ask you again for some conciseness. I am constantly hearing a lot of reflections. The Minister is here as an advisor to the Chamber. That is an important role and it is an important subject, but I would like to see some conciseness focused on the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u149	The question of effectiveness is crucial. That is what this is about: which system is effective? The minister says: if you compare systems, you should also see what effect such a system has on living donations. My point is that in a system of scarcity the need for and the urge for living donations increases. Although very altruistic, that is a negative effect. If the number of post-mortal donors were to increase, the number of living donations would also logically decrease. This relationship must therefore be established in such a way that it is not an independent effect of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u150	In the first part I tried to make a nuance by pointing out the expectations you may have of an opt-out system. The number of countries in Europe with an opt-out system that performs less than the Netherlands is significant. There are also countries with an opt-in system that perform very much better. So it's not just the system. It depends on a lot of things and it is therefore extremely difficult to compare systems. However, the Chamber asked me to do so. I am making an attempt now, despite all the ifs and buts, because I would like nothing more than for us to find a way to get rid of the waiting list. I do not care whether we can do that with live and postmortem organs or only with postmortem organs. The Chamber asked me what I'm getting out of the investigations. There are a lot of them, because the first investigations we checked are from the beginning of this century. So it's about 14 years together. It is a huge pile, and that is why I started by saying that everyone can find an investigation to support their position. Those investigations are so diverse, they're real. Mr Pechtold asked me to look specifically at one study from 2014, because he thinks it is an interesting study. I have looked very closely at this and I have seen that this research also shows all kinds of nuances, including in the case of opt-in and opt-out systems. That's all I can make of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u151	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u152	Mr President, I should like to move on to a second recital. Research carried out in October 2015 shows that 57% of respondents are willing to donate organs and/or tissues after their death. However, only 26% of people over 18 are registered as donors. Why is there such a big difference? You have to guess about that, because people give all kinds of considerations: fear, uncertainty, doubts, but also don't know and don't want to think about it. However, there is a certain lack of commitment, a certain absence of urgency, and of course that is very painful for people who are on a waiting list and who depend on this decision. It is not for nothing that I have brought reciprocity into the campaign and have indicated every time: if you want to receive an organ yourself when you are sick, it is not even time to register as a donor. It is a step further to bring reciprocity into the system as an element. For me personally, this certainly has attractive aspects, but it also brings with it dilemmas and practical objections, as well as a compulsory choice system. The latter is more or less an option indicated by Mr Öztürk. In Illionois this system is known, because it will not give you your documents until you have completed a donor form. The other possibility is that you automatically register people if they don't choose, the ADR system. Following the introduction of the ADR system, the situation would arise that, in addition to the explicit yes of people who consciously choose donation, a large group of implicit yes's would be from people who have not responded to a letter from the government. Once these files are mixed, it is not easy to reverse, but that yes file is built up with blood, sweat and tears. I therefore suggest to the initiator that a category of 'no objection' should be made, so that at least these yes do not mix. Of course, people will be as well informed as possible about the introduction of the ADR system and its consequences for them. However, there is a good chance that many people will not make that conscious choice aware. Some argue, some members in the first term but also people in society, that it is an infringement of the right of self-determination of citizens who do not want to donate for reasons of principle or religion. We do not all have to agree on this, as we have seen in the first term. You can therefore discuss whether one system is the right to self-determination and the other is not. In any case, the argument of self-determination is an important argument for a large group in the Chamber and society. An argument which plays an important role in a number of studies and which I do not often hear in the discussion is that of the standard, the standard; I have just mentioned it in an exchange of views with Mr Pechtold. An opt-out system has the social standard that you are a donor, and people accept it more easily as the standard than if the standard or the standard would be that you would not be an automatic donor. This is an important recurring element in various studies. The role of survivors is a focus of attention in the ADR system. What are you going to do as a next of kin if your loved one hasn't made a conscious choice and is automatically registered as a donor, knowing that he or she hasn't thought about it or perhaps didn't want to? I am not clear, not even after the first term, whether a so-called soft on-out or a hard opt-out is being chosen. If I have listened to Mrs Dijkstra correctly, it is a bit between a soft and a hard opt-out; that is my impression. This does matter, because the soft variant ultimately gives the decisive voice to the next of kin. It is also the most common variant in countries with an opt-out system. In the hard variant organs are also excluded if the next of kin disagree with this despite the registration. That is relevant when we consider the position of Dutch people who are foreign-language, low-literate or will-incompetent. In view of their position, a soft or a hard variant of the opt-out system makes a lot of difference; but well, I understand that Mrs Dijkstra has chosen an intermediate variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u153	I see there are questions. Mrs. Wolbert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u154	The Minister is confusing me a little bit now. I myself am assuming that this is a soft opt-out, since Mrs Dijkstra has really addressed all kinds of questions about the position of next of kin here. I have heard her say every time that in any situation, including in the case of willon, even if it is unclear and even if nothing is known and family objects, the family eventually decides whether there will be a donation or not. So I am so curious to hear what the Minister has heard in Mrs Dijkstra's reasoning, which makes her think that Mrs Dijkstra would be in between. What signals has the Minister received?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u155	I take it back immediately if I haven't listened carefully, but I listened to it like this. If people are in psychological distress or, as Mrs Dijkstra said, otherwise freak out if a yes is carried out, it is, in my words, "a soft variant" and in other situations it is not. A yes is a yes, but only if it leads to a lot of trouble for next of kin, to put it homely, does a yes become a no. As far as I'm concerned, there's a little bit in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u156	With "a lot of hassle" we come into the field of interpretation: what is a lot of hassle? I have heard Mrs Dijkstra say this on a number of occasions: if the family can make sense of it, there will be no fuss about it that a yes could never have been the intention of the deceased, or if the family would have serious objections to it for any reason, a doctor will never decide to take it out. There was also a "dummy" variant, but the first two I heard very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u157	Yeah, but then you have to do something as a next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u158	Yeah, you have to make sure that that could never have been the intention...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u159	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u160	Unless you're saying you're in a lot of trouble yourself. In that conversation you don't have to do anything for it, but it's a conversation, as I've always understood. The doctor finally listens to the next of kin. So I've always concluded: that's a soft variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u161	That's your right. There are differences between implementation in different countries. At first, the bill seemed to be a very hard variant. Later it was adapted to what I think is an intermediate variant, for the situation that next of kin really object and make things plausible. But that doesn't mean that a next of kin can just say: it says yes, but we do no. In my view, this is also justified by the right to self-determination. Otherwise, it could be that I choose yes and someone from my family says "don't do it" and that it doesn't happen too easily. So that you're going to sit in between, I find in itself a variant that meets most of the needs. I tried to translate what I just heard say, but if I was wrong, I'll hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u162	The Minister brings in the two new concepts'soft' and 'hard', so I would like to put that through. Mrs Dijkstra said in her reply that no more permission is required; the doctor does not really need to ask for permission anymore. That was Mrs Dijkstra's text. Is that a soft opt-out or a hard opt-out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u163	They're international concepts. I know I'm not allowed to do any English in this Chamber, but these are the concepts you'll encounter in international investigations. It clearly states that in countries that work with a soft opt-out, a donation cannot take place without the permission of the family. That's a soft opt-out. That's not this opt-out. But this opt-out is also not hard, in the vein of: we just do it, regardless of the family. So I weighed it and thought she was in the middle of it. But if I see that wrong, I'll find out. That's what happens when you're plowing through all these English-language studies on behalf of the Chamber; then you get these kind of terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u164	Then Mrs. Bruins Slot again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u165	I appreciate the Minister's attempt, from her advisory role, to seek further information. She has now clearly explained the difference between a soft opt-out and a hard one. Then we're talking about the criterion of psychic... I was going to say "psychic overload," but I can't do that anymore. Let me say "psychic distress." How was this criterion laid down by the Minister? Let me ask you something more specific: what does the Minister mean by 'psychological distress'?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u166	I agree with Mrs Dijkstra's reply, because it is very difficult to catch in one nut. But I can imagine that in this kind of emotional situation a family can't live with a yes at all and therefore responds very emotionally to it. I'm just trying to interpret, and that's really hard. But in practice it may be the least problem to interpret that concept. We now have these situations too, let us be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u167	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u168	Then there is the third and final consideration. I see many opportunities in innovations to increase the number of successful transplants. I am thinking, for example, of the perfusion chamber at the University Medical Centre Groningen (UMCG), where rejected organs can be made fit for transplantation. In addition, organs can be better preserved, helping more people. The UMCG is thus leading the world and expects, for example, to be able to perform 10% to 20% more lung and liver transplants. These are promising developments and it is easy to invest in them. For this year we have therefore made EUR 0.5 million available to achieve a national deployment of the perfusion chamber. The same is true in the longer term for stem cell research such as that of Professor Clevers, but also for research in Rotterdam and Leiden that focuses on rebuilding kidneys and livers. I'm still talking to hospitals about that research and its funding. Taking cells from, for example, a liver to create a skeleton that can be rebuilt with stem cells is also a promising development. Techniques such as CRISPR, where you replace pieces of DNA in living cells with a new piece of DNA, which may also allow the use of pig livers in the future, are also encouraging. However, it will take a number of years, I say euphemistically, for these techniques to be clinically applicable. Innovation in organ transplants is very promising. Investing in innovation can be very effective. The cost of introducing an ADR system is 30 to 35 million euros on an occasional basis. Such an amount can also be invested in innovation. The question is which option you choose. You and I have the same goal. We want more successful organ transplants so we can save the lives of more people. We want people to choose more consciously if they want to be donors. The question is whether an ADR is an effective means of achieving these objectives. It is up to your Chamber to answer that question. I wish you much wisdom in that. I hope that my considerations will contribute to a balanced judgment. A number of specific questions have been asked. Mr Van Gerven, Mr Pechtold and Mrs Bruins Slot have asked me whether municipalities are using the application for a passport or driving licence to make a choice for organ donation and whether it is possible to institutionalise it. That will always have to be done in consultation with the Minister for the Interior, but it will certainly be possible. A further form of this is the compulsory selection system in Illinois, where the passport or driving licence is issued only after a donor form has been completed. Panteia also investigated that variant for me. This has not shown that this is a better option than the current system or ADR. I can also imagine that if you are so compelling in the Netherlands when you issue a form, that could be counterproductive. The obligation for municipalities to provide a donor form when issuing official documents is also an option that can be sure. This can be organised in consultation with the Home Office. Moreover, research carried out by NTS in 2013 shows that the municipalities already play an active role in disseminating donor forms. In 2013, 79% of the municipalities indicated their active role. 37% of the municipalities, for example, hand out the donor form personally to the front desk. There's a 30 percent display of donor forms at the front desk. More than a quarter of the municipalities send a donor form with the reminder for the ID, for example a passport, an ID card or a driver's license. So there's activity, but that can always be better. I have been asked a number of questions about the consequences for the low-literate and unskilled. What thoughts do I have on information? Mrs Dijkstra has already outlined many options for a major public campaign. You can use movies and drawings, but you have to be careful that it doesn't act as a deterrent. You have to think carefully about how you do that, but we have professionals who can contribute to that. The legal representation is crucial here. Mrs Bruins Slot asked how this relates to the sentence provision in Article 32 of the law, under which the body may be excluded only if legal consent has been given. That's also about unqualified. At the time, it was a conscious choice to protect the willless and not to allow organ donation. It is difficult for this group to assess the consequences of their choice. Within the ADR system, registration of wills incompetents will be valid consent until proven otherwise. In this case, the take-out is not punishable, but the legal representative is crucial. I have here texts which Mrs Dijkstra herself has indicated to answer those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u169	Not every incompetent man has a legal representative. What is the practice in such a case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u170	I think Mrs Dijkstra has answered the same question. Then a next of kin will play that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u171	Does that make a difference to the criminality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u172	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u173	This is something for the second term, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u174	D66 believes you don't decide for yourself if you don't register. That party wants to know how I see this. It is true: the current law gives people the opportunity not to decide at all about their registration as a donor. If a person has not made a choice in the donor registry, the current law allows survivors to decide on organ donation in the event of death. If no next of kin can be reached, there is now no organ donation. Campaigns have been heavily wagered over the past few years. There was not only the "JaofNoe" donor campaign that may have been known in recent years. As I have agreed with the Chamber, a new campaign will be launched in the coming years. This new campaign has the motto "Save a life: You have it in you." The donor week is also such a campaign. There are also activities such as sending a letter to someone who turns 18. There's an incredibly high stake in recruitment campaigns. But pure self-determination is hard to achieve, just as a range of 100% is hard to achieve. In the system we know now, it's just really hard to reach someone who doesn't watch TV and doesn't read his letters. In the Medical Treatment Agreement Act, the right to self-determination is leading, but the ADR is broken. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked me how I feel about that. Both systems have the possibility of self-determination. You can actively indicate what you want in both systems. The consequence of postponing, forgetting or not knowing is that in the current system you are not a donor and in the ADR you are a donor. Therefore, non-choosing has important other outcomes. Why was the objective of organ donation not achieved in 2008 after the master plan, asked Mr Pechtold. This subject was discussed with the Chamber last March during the AO Organ donation. Then I said that the number of transplants with post-mortem donor organs was more or less achieved. This happened one year later than envisaged, namely in 2014 instead of 2013, and by 23% instead of 25%. I have added that I am well aware that we are not here yet. As long as there's a waiting list at all, we're not there yet. We can never sit back. Whatever we do, it's mostly about maintaining and continuing the rising line in organ transplants. How many additional donors does the increase in the maximum age at which one can deliver a donor? From 2011 onwards, the maximum age at which one can increase one's donor. This led to 7.8% more transplanted organs in the period from 1 January 2011 to 1 July 2014. It has also been asked whether I think it is possible to increase the amount of donors within the current system. Yeah, I think that's true, but it's not going to happen on its own and not just like that. It's an incredibly difficult story. We have invested a lot in recent years, not only in energy, but also in money. We've taken over a lot of the Spanish system and the master plan. We've been running campaigns. Hospitals have been working on it. As a result, the number of donors and the number of transplants increased from 635 to 755. I have just said that I expect a great deal from the contribution of medical innovations, such as the perfusion chamber, to the number of organs available for transplantation. This is a path of innovation that needs to be vigorously pursued. I have been asked whether I have read BMC Medicine's report on donor registration in 48 countries and whether I would like to respond to that. I think I've done that a little bit. I say that the choice to register is not without obligation. Mr Pechtold therefore asks whether I agree with his group that the least you can ask of people is to define a choice that is entitled to own responsibility. I do think that's the least you can ask of people. That is why I brought the element of reciprocity into that campaign. Of course, if I'm sick to death, I want an organ, but I don't want to be an organ donor. Then we have macro seen a problem. How can we ensure that information on organ donation is as clear as possible and what lessons can be learned from donor weeks in terms of improving information? We evaluate the campaigns every year, and with the help of these evaluations we are now drawing up a multi-annual strategy. That's what I agreed with the Chamber. One part of this is that we focus our communication more on specific target groups: in addition to the positive non-registered ones also the unregistered doubters. I was asked to respond to the 2015 donor campaign from Wales. Mrs Dijkstra said that as of 1 December 2015, they have switched from opt-in to opt-out. In recent years, unlike the Netherlands, Wales has experienced a declining number of donors and transplants. In addition to a stable number of yes registered, one third of the population, this has been the reason to change the system. The new system has only been in operation for a few months, so I think it is too early to draw any conclusions now. In the first month of the new system, more than 157.000 people, 5% of the population, registered from the donor register. Two weeks ago, the Welsh Health Minister said that the number of organ donors has increased significantly through the system. 40% of donors would be due to the new system. Mr Öztürk asks me whether I have done everything within the current system to increase the number of donors and, if not, where I have fallen short. I find it hard to talk about lack. It's also about the size. The more compelling you are as a government, the more people's reactions you can expect as "well say, I'm about to" or "well, I'm not about to." You gotta bet on it. I think we did. In recent years, 30 million euros have been invested in educating and training people to be able to conduct the conversation with relatives and to roll out all kinds of experiences that have been gained in Groningen over the Netherlands, as we say. We've been looking into how we can improve hospital deployment. In addition to improving the conversation, the network, etc. within hospitals, we have national recruitment campaigns. Every year I sign all 18-year-olds and new residents. Municipalities distributed 680,000 donor forms in 2014 alone. That gave us half a million extra registrations. We are not satisfied with that, but it is a rising line. We've been working on education in schools. So I think a lot has happened. However, as long as there are waiting lists, you can never be satisfied with what happened. This year, by the way, we have also deployed groups that are very low in terms of the number of registered persons. In many neighbourhoods in Rotterdam and other major cities we have conducted additional campaigns aimed at those groups of inhabitants of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u175	The measure we should take under the initiative proposal is rather harsh. We must then see if we as a government have done everything we can to prevent us from taking such a measure. That was the basis of my question. The minister says if we try to force it, it'll scare people off. We didn't ask to force people. I was particularly concerned with the municipalities. There are municipalities that don't do anything about it. From the national government we have the task of moving these municipalities to something. My question was: what did you actually do to get the municipalities to reach as many people as possible? I have also tabled an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u176	I will come back to that amendment later. I didn't see that. I am not talking about Mr Öztürk so much, but I am thinking about Illinois, where you go one step further and say: if you haven't turned in your donor form, you won't get your license. That's one extreme. Well, then you're over the no strings attached, but I doubt it's gonna make much more sense. I just mentioned the percentages of municipalities doing what. You can say that 79% is a lot, but that's not 21%. I am certainly prepared to see how we can get that 21% into our lives. I think that is an important aspect. Moreover, the aim should be to ensure that 100% of the municipalities participate in any system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u177	I will hear the reaction to the amendment in a moment. We do not go as far in our amendment as others, Illinois in this case. We do not say: if you do not fill out the registration form, you will not get a passport or identity card. We're not going that far. We are going to confront people with images, so every citizen in the Netherlands is confronted with this. That's how you pull up the results. The municipalities have a role in that. My question is then: what concrete projects has the Minister set up in recent years to achieve functional illiteracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u178	Last autumn, we moved into the neighborhoods to see how we could reach people you don't normally reach with a TV commercial. We are now proposing a multi-annual strategy in which we focus much more on groups. Take the group of doubters. It is perhaps very useful to use it very actively, because the dime might just fall the other way. Or take the group of people who are insufficiently informed. With the campaign that has yet to be launched, we are looking much more closely at how we can reach these groups, so instead of having a general campaign, we are running a much more group-oriented campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u179	Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u180	You haven't spoken much with interruptions yet, so go ahead briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The group that is most affected by this initiative proposal is the functional illiterate group, because that group does not read or cannot read these two letters. My point is: what have we done recently to get this group to do? What is the Minister going to do in the near future to get this group involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u182	I wouldn't say "Last," because if we don't have any waiting lists, these people won't be on the waiting list either. This initiative proposal has the greatest consequences for them only. Mr Öztürk should therefore also ask the initiator. For me, no matter what system you choose, information campaigns remain crucial. For some time now, we have been trying to figure out how to do it as much as possible. Is there room for improvement? I'm sure. Should we also look at other countries? I'm sure. In any case, I have agreed with the Chamber to develop a new campaign strategy. That's what we're doing. We are going to focus them more on groups, so also specifically on this group. Then you can still think about how to do that. Is that what you do with animations or videos? How do you do that to achieve your goal? Because registering fewer people is not the goal. You won't get 100% range, but it's not easy either. Mrs Klever said that the current system does not allow an organ for 150 people to die in time. She asked: is my view that ADR could prevent this? First of all, it is of course terrible that so many people die on the waiting list for a donor organ every year. That's what everyone in the room thinks. The crucial question that lies on the table here is: can another system prevent this? I went into this in detail in my first block. It is for consideration by each group. Each group will have to consider the arguments itself. Mrs Bruins Slot asked what I expected of the effectiveness of the ADR system. I've already reported that. 100% range of campaigns is impossible. We have already dealt with this. What is the benefit of knowledge and awareness among general practitioners? There is certainly a profit to be made in this respect. Therefore, the NTS commissioned by VWS started a project to increase the involvement of general practitioners. This project is an initiative of a general practitioner from Den Bosch and is supported by the NHG. The goal is to make general practitioners more aware of the possibility of donation in patients. Probably won't lead directly to more organ donors, but it can certainly help to increase the number of tissue donors. What about advertising for donor registration on digital services? I have contact with Logius, the manager of MyGovernment.nl. There is already a link between MijnOverheid.nl and the Donorregister. We're working on simplifying that clutch. The use of MyGovernment, among other things by electronic messaging, will increase considerably in the coming period, as more and more authorities join MyGovernment.nl and so are more often used. I therefore expect positive results from this link in the short term, within a few months, by making it simpler. Asked what effects I expect from more information in schools. Information in schools leads to more knowledge about organ donation, with the result that pupils can make a more conscious choice when asked to register at the age of 18. It has also been found that schoolchildren also talk about organ donation at home, with their parents, siblings. This is how knowledge on this subject continues to spread. Mrs Bruins Slot asked me what additional actions I would like to take in order to achieve improvements, such as through a uniform approach to the donation process in the hospital, a proper way of communicating with next of kin and optimising the deployment of independent take-out teams. A number of recommendations emerged from the 2014 evaluation of the pilots in hospitals. At the request of VWS, the NTS took the initiative to make these recommendations concrete together with the hospitals. I informed the Chamber of the results of the evaluation. I also support the national deployment of the perfusion chamber in Groningen, which can contribute to more efficient and qualitatively improved organ transplantation, as it allows the organs to be temporarily preserved and improved. Following the evaluation of the pilots in hospitals, the NTS set up an improvement programme at the request of VWS. All donation regions participate in this. This will lead to even more action and, among other things, a more efficient and effective classification of the take-out teams in the Netherlands. I have already indicated that we are also currently discussing the national employability of the perfusion chamber, to use this technique throughout the Netherlands. What other developments could contribute? In that context, I have already mentioned cells and CRISPR-Cas. What are the differences between hospitals and are they discussed? Based on the Masterplan Organ donation, pilots were launched in hospitals in 2009. The purpose of these pilots is a uniform method of finding organ donors. In 2011, the donor recruitment structure developed in the region of Groningen was made available nationally. This has proved successful, according to the evaluation of the 2014 pilots. I continued the pilots until 2016. I want to ensure structural funding from 2017. Hospitals can learn from each other. That's what's gonna happen. The Dutch Transplantation Foundation facilitates this by, among other things, making the results of the hospitals transparent via a dashboard developed on behalf of VWS. The hospitals can then look at each other's figures and compare them. Asked if I'm willing to implement the bill. I have already indicated at the beginning that, in accordance with the coalition agreement, I leave this matter to the Chamber. It has been asked at what time I consider it possible to introduce the bill. I only have an estimate in general of the cost of a tender for information via a public campaign and also a gross planning. We're not going to work out an import plan until it becomes really relevant. If the Parliament chooses the ADR, I hope to hear expectations and ideas from the author of the bill and the House of Representatives about the extent and details of the system change, for example on matters such as approaching the low-literate and partly incompetent and on the coverage of the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u183	This brings us to the end of the first-term response by the initiator, Mrs Dijkstra, and the Minister's opinion on the initiative proposal. That is always a special moment; let us establish that for a moment. The second deadline will be held at a time to be specified.
