ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. I call Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Prime Minister is present at this debate. This time he's not wearing a bow tie. There is not much to celebrate when we talk about Turkey. When the Christian Union called for this debate, Mrs Umar was still stuck in Turkey. Fortunately, she has returned to the Netherlands. For this, the Christian Union Group congratulates the Cabinet, in particular the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It would have been unacceptable for Mrs Umar to be held by Turkey. That is not the end of the matter itself. The trial is yet to come. I therefore ask the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister what the cabinet will do to provide further assistance to Mrs Umar in her process. I understand Mrs. Umar's employer is paying for her security. Is it not obvious, I ask the rulers, that the Dutch State should bear these costs if a threat analysis shows that it needs security? Can the Minister and the Prime Minister guarantee that Mrs Umar will not be extradited to Turkey? I would like a clear answer from the cabinet, because I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Ms Umar's security also indicates that President Erdogan's actions in the Netherlands encourage people to threaten Ms Umar. Also because of the announcement of the hotline by the Turkish consulate, it is possible that Turkish Dutch people in particular feel limited in their freedom of expression. After all, the same thing could happen to them if Mrs Umar were to visit Turkey again. In what way is the Foreign Minister going to make it clear to the Turkish Government that we are not served by threatening language towards the Dutch? It is significant that the professor of Turkish language and culture of Leiden University, Mr Zürcher, has returned his high distinction to Turkey, in protest against "President Erdogan's dictatorial malpractice." According to Mr Zürcher, Erdogan Turkey cannot and cannot become a member of the European Union. The Umar case clearly shows that Turkey maintains totally different values than the Netherlands and Europe. President Erdogan does not tolerate criticism. In no country are there as many journalists as in Turkey. That country is sending refugees forced back to Syria. At the moment hundreds of innocent Kurds are killed in the fight against the PKK. In November 2015, the European Commission also highlighted the serious human rights violations in Turkey and the lack of progress in strengthening the rule of law. Turkey's involvement goes beyond its own borders. Recently even the Reformatorisch Dagblad was tapped on the fingers. The fact that Turkey criticises this newspaper's main editorial comment is not only inappropriate but also intimidating and outrageous. With that country in particular, the Netherlands and the European Union are making a deal on refugees. The European Union wants to speed up discussions on membership, the Turks will be able to travel visa-free and Turkey will receive another 6 billion. For visa-free travel, the anti-terror laws must be adapted, but Turkey has already stated that it does not feel that way. It is important not to amend these laws, because the Kurds and journalists in the eyes of Erdogan could soon make state-abiding activities or statements. What is the Turkey deal if no people are returned and the air bridge with which vulnerable Syrians can be taken from Turkey into Europe does not literally come off the ground? Zürcher also points out that Erdogan's measures and ideology, using Islam as a voter, make the country incompatible with Europe. Zürcher says that the standards of conservative Muslims are increasingly being raised to general standards. If you don't listen, you're gonna get your ass kicked and dragged to court. If these sounds come from previously very pro-Turkish opinion-makers, then you would say that other parties in this Chamber should also open their eyes. In conclusion, I would like to point out that Mrs Umar's case is symbolic of the Turkish attitude towards many journalists. Freedom of the press is still being restricted and the situation regarding religious freedom is deteriorating. The Turkish government still does not recognise the Armenian genocide after 101 years, the Kurds are still under attack and the refugees are driven back into the hands of ISIS. The opinion of the Christian Union is therefore clear: draw your conclusions, stop doing business with President Erdogan, stop negotiating a European membership and stop the Turkey deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is sometimes good to start a debate with compliments, with sincere congratulations to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the diplomats involved. They managed to lift Ebru Umar's land arrest. Unfortunately, however, the misery is not yet over. The criminal case is still pending. Therefore, the following questions. What does the Cabinet do about the criminal case? Has the Prime Minister called Erdogan yet? Does the cabinet agree with the VVD and the PvdA that Ebru Umar should never be extradited to Turkey? What does the cabinet do to prevent other Dutch travelers from waiting for the same fate as Ebru Umar on holiday or on business trips to Turkey? Umar is now in the Netherlands, but the question is whether she is safe. She's been robbed. Her house is smeared and damaged, and now she has to live in safe houses because of the threats. That's really the reverse world. Not the bereaved lose their freedom, but the threatened. I would like to hear from the cabinet whose threats are coming and what the cabinet is doing to put an end to them. Freedom of expression is one of the core values of our liberal democracy. The ability to say what you think and what you think distinguishes our democracy from dictatorships and totalitarian ideologies, which silence people who think otherwise. We must stand up for this freedom. There is no way we can negotiate with that freedom. Unfortunately, Dutch journalists are all too often victims of totalitarian regimes in the countries where they work. In Turkey alone, the Dutch journalists Fréderike Geerdink, Bram Vermeulen and Mehmet Ulger clashed with the autocratic regime of Erdogan. I am also thinking of the case of Rena Neatjes in Egypt and the case of Rik Goverde in Morocco. Often it is possible to securely bring those involved to the Netherlands, but then they are no longer allowed to practice their profession in those countries. They are literally silenced. In such cases, there is a pyrrus victory for the freedom of the press. D66 therefore wants Dutch journalists persecuted abroad to be automatically entitled to legal assistance and the corresponding financial resources. So we are thinking of a support fund for journalists in need. I'd like a response from the Foreign Minister. I told you, freedom of speech is at stake. The intimidation by Erdogan and his associates is not limited to the Turkish land borders. The Turkish consulate in Rotterdam wanted to introduce a click line. Erdogan wanted to prosecute a German comedian. Erdogan wanted to censor a photo in Switzerland. There is a list of 1,200 Belgian Turks who are no longer allowed in the country because they are critical of Erdogan. These are all examples of Ankara's long arm. Of course we can dismiss Erdogan as someone with long toes, but the problem is much more fundamental. We are dealing with a president who takes every opportunity to curtail and polarise our freedom. He also has that effect in the Netherlands. However, Erdogan simply has nothing to do with the Dutch of Turkish origin. It's not the first time a case like this has been dealt with. There's been a steady pattern. Erdogan is doing something bizarre and following the Dutch indignation from the cabinet and the Chamber. It seems to be a pattern that we cannot break unless we send a clear signal. Our Prime Minister should speak loudly and clearly against these actions, against these visible attempts to restrict our freedom and against these provocations. It is just as important that we reduce our dependence on Erdogan. He now wants to make the most of it, knowing that the EU-Turkey deal is the only thing the European Union has. It is therefore time for a plan B: a genuine European asylum policy, rapid legal migration routes and better reception in the region. I'd like a response from the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr... No, to Mrs Maij for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u5	I thought I'd ask you a question. Mr Sjoerdsma talks about Plan B, a genuine European asylum policy. That seems to me to be a good thing, but then we also have to talk to Turkey, because Turkey is and remains the country where almost 3 million Syrian refugees now reside, who also need protection. And we also very much want them to have that protection properly there. How does Mr Sjoerdsma see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u6	Of course, the Syrians in Turkey must be protected. When I think only of the reports by Human Rights Watch and Amnesty who have been mentioned here in recent weeks about how Turkish border guards have violently denied access to the country to refugees fleeing terrorist groups such as ISIS and Al-Qaeda... Of course we are dealing with Turkey. After all, we must do something for those refugees. I am therefore disappointed that the PvdA again this morning, in general consultation on the forthcoming JHA Council, notes with us that what is happening in Turkey is very worrying, but does not want to conclude that we cannot send people back to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u7	It's nice that Mr. Sjoerdsma is turning it into a you-bowl, but he's not answering my question. As he rightly points out, there are problems with the reception and protection of refugees in Turkey, and that is what we need to do. This means that, as annoying as that may be, you have to talk to the authorities of Turkey to see what kind of protection you can offer, in whatever way you can, for example, give that role to an organisation such as UNHCR, which should have an important role there. This means not only being critical and not only noticing what is going on, but also that Plan B should take shape in talks with the Turkish authorities and with the authorities in Turkey. How does Mr Sjoerdsma see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u8	That is the difference between the Labour Party and D66: the Labour Party has put all its money on this EU-Turkey deal and cannot go back. As a result, it is a painful conclusion that Erdogan wants to get the best out of the can and continues under the guise of this deal. The only way to deal with this is to ensure that we are not entirely dependent on Erdogan in the joint approach to refugees. And what does that include? This includes a common European asylum policy. D66 has been advocating this for three, four, five years, while other groups in this Chamber have been talking about school milk and olive oil on restaurant tables. This was the case in the State of Europe debate three years ago. I remember it well. So that is our plan B: a genuine European asylum policy. Take that together, because that's where it went wrong prior to this deal. That's one. Two is - and Mrs Maij is partly right about this - that you should also be able to fight for each other in the region, but that does not mean that we need to make ourselves dependent in the same way as we do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u9	I note that Mr Sjoerdsma is half listening. He's half right with me, but he's only half right with me. That common asylum policy is advocated by many political groups...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u10	I do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u11	...and not just by D66. No, that's what other groups have been doing for a long time. You really should read that again, Mr Sjoerdsma. Even these and previous governments have been advocating it, to be precise, since 1999. However, Turkey is the neighbouring country with almost 3 million refugees, and we cannot abandon these refugees either. Nor can Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u12	Of course, I agree wholeheartedly with Mrs Maij, but she outlines a contradiction that does not exist. It simply pretends that the granting of emergency aid to Syrian refugees in Turkey should be made dependent on this very big EU-Turkey deal. Of course, that is not the case. We provide emergency aid to refugees in Lebanon and Jordan, even without having such a far-reaching deal with those countries as we have with Turkey. I do not see Mrs Maij's contradiction at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. It is crazy for words that Ebru Umar was deprived of her freedom in Turkey because she exercised her right to freedom of expression. But that is Turkish reality. Erdogans Turkey is world champion of journalists. He is also a great friend of the extremist Muslim Brotherhood. For him, democracy, freedom and justice are words that have absolutely no value. I am not making that up, he said it himself, on 16 March in Ankara. The here not so well known but in Erdogan's party widely appreciated Islamofascist Kısakürek is his great inspiration. In the line of Kısakürek Erdogan pursues a presidential dictatorship. He calls this "advanced democracy": all power in the hands of the President who can quickly bring the will of the people to justice. According to Erdogan, this is proven by Hitler Germany. Erdogan sees himself as that lofty leader. Anyone who criticises that will be eliminated. The free media in Turkey have already been eliminated; 'parallel' as it is called in fascist language. Out of fear, Turkish media keep quiet. This is typically a characteristic of a dictatorship: creating fear among opponents. Exalted leader Erdogan also sees himself as the leader of Turks outside Turkey. Most Lower Turks see it that way. They like to vote for him. Some like to enslave themselves by mass reporting insults of the exalted leader abroad. Some report insults via a click line of the Turkish diplomatic service. Then the unified justice system of the supreme leader can tackle the critics when they come to Turkey. Of course, it was not acceptable for Erdogan's long toes to tolerate that a Nederturkse said something about him. That's how Ebru Umar got into trouble. That was a good thing, because her arrest offered the opportunity to sow fear among people outside Turkey. The deeper you bend into the dust, the deeper a dictator falls into that dust. Erdogan thinks he's got us in a stranglehold by pouring out a flood of fortune seekers on us. We've had a taste of that lately. However, that only applies if we have weak leaders who are not up to him and his negotiating tactics, who do not see that "a deal is a deal" does not apply to Erdogan, who do not understand that an agreement for Erdogan is only a starting point for making further demands the next day, who do not want to see that you cannot make any agreements with an islamofascist at all and therefore do not want to make any. Unfortunately, there are such leaders in Europe today, for example the President of the European Council, Tusk, who felt that no one should lecture Turkey and the Labour Commissioner's Party Timmermans. He wants to call a Turkish tsunami over us by allowing visa-free travel for all Turks. Don't do it, I'm asking our government today. Don't bow to that Islamic dictatorship. Our country is already at its knees in the Islamic shit, don't make it worse. Reject the Islamic influence and do not bow to those Islamofascists. Don't give them a finger because they want to take away our freedom. Finally, I would like to point out the following. As far as PVV is concerned, do not do business with Erdogan, Turkey not in the European Union but in NATO, not 80 million Turks visa-free to the Netherlands, remove Islamofascist influence from the Netherlands and clean up. The Netherlands again free, safe and sovereign.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, a German judge ruled that the German satirist Bömermann was rightly charged with insulting the Turkish President Erdogan. The fact that Erdogan has stepped on his toes rather quickly in his own country is evident from the fact that he has charged more than 1,500 compatriots. We do not like that, but that is the reality of Turkey. But the fact that the Turkish head of state now also allows criminal prosecution of a German satirist in Germany is a long arm. Fortunately, we live in the Netherlands. When on Saturday 23 April the Dutch columnist Ebru Umar was arrested in Turkey for statements and tweets she had made in the Netherlands, the Dutch government and our diplomats tried to get her out. After a night at the police station and three weeks in Kuşadasi, Ebru Umar returned to the Netherlands last Tuesday. Yesterday she called us again to do our job. Apart from what I think of her columns, I'm especially glad she can do her job again. A few questions to the government. What is the legal status of Ebru Umar's case in Turkey, now that her exit ban has been revoked? Can it return to Turkey if it so wishes? Or is she persona non grata? How does the government estimate that this will not be a Rena-Nice scenario, condemning Mrs Umar in absentia in Turkey? Can the government here confirm that the reason for her arrest, the alleged insult of Erdogan, can never or should never be a reason for extradition? Is her safety a priority here in the Netherlands? This case has shown that the old handiwork of silent diplomacy can sometimes be achieved more than with deafening roaring. Once the cabinet, and in particular the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, gets to work within the existing diplomatic channels, our Parliament will fit in with restraint. Anyone who then calls that the government cannot or will not find the Turkish Government's telephone number, when it is already clear that there has been intensive contact, or who roars that the relationship with Turkey should be broken, which would have prevented Ebru Umar from getting any help, is working on his own political profiling and not on a Dutch person who is in trouble abroad. Screaming for the stage is not an alternative to chess on the international field. The caller of politics must sometimes also want to give way to the silent drum of diplomacy. Staying in a protest is not a solution to a problem. The real problem is not in Turkey, the real problem is the displeasure we feel here in the Netherlands if we can no longer trust that everyone who criticises each other here also identifies with the core values of our open and resilient society, which makes it possible to safely express criticism. Among large groups of Dutch people with Turkish passports there was applause, after the arrest of Mrs Umar, but certainly not among all. I know many Turkish Dutch people who hate Erdogan, who like to live and work in our society and who make a great contribution. But there is also a significant group of Turkish Dutch people who put the identification with the interests of the Turkish state above that of the Netherlands. It is with these Turkish Dutch that the click line of the Turkish consulate does its harmful work. It is this group that intimidates and threatens on Facebook and Twitter. Ebru Umar is now free from Turkey, but she lives here at a safe house. Mr Keklik Yücel I am glad that she is in the plenary room today, from facebook onwards, had to accept a perhaps orchestrated protest bombing on her facebook profile. Other colleagues with a Turkish background were judged on the basis of their ethnicity on their voting behaviour. Here, in this Parliament, in fact, a parliamentary click line. That is what we must oppose and that is what I am saying again. I hope more people will. But I also have two questions for the Prime Minister. If there is a suspicion that foreign governments are causing sectarian tensions in our country, shall we leave it to a protest? Can the Prime Minister give me the assurance that the Dutch State will also investigate this directly, if necessary? Are our police and security services going to get to the bottom of this violation of freedom of expression, especially when it comes to MPs? Because intimidation in public space by individuals and groups, especially by anonymous individuals, especially when the long toes of a foreign government are behind it, is unacceptable in an open and therefore vulnerable society like ours. It kills the freedom that is also the best defence against that vulnerability. That is what distinguishes us from the Middle East, where sectarianism, intimidation and intolerance prevail. We can spare the Middle East here as a toothache. It's bad enough we have to do business with it. I say to Mr De Roon that we do things for our own good, but in this case we do: first the girl.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u15	Were you done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u17	I had to think about that last remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u18	I always say something to think about!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u19	I referred to the fact that the real problem is not there, but here. In part, Mr Ten Broeke is right, of course, if the people of Turkish origin living in the Netherlands are going to take the same measure, we are going to have a very unhealthy society, but isn't it both? Mr Ten Broeke also mentioned the click line proposed by the Consulate and the long arm of Ankara.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u20	Yeah, I think that's part of the same problem. If there were an orchestrated public outrage, and behind that orchestration, perhaps a foreign government would be hiding, then I think that needs to be sorted out to the bottom, because that is detrimental to an open society. We have an open debate, and that open debate can only take place if freedom here is virtually unbiased, and that can only be done by the responsible action of everyone, if everyone knows what they are restricted by. But you also need to be safe. You must have the confidence that in an open society you have that freedom in full. That is not the case when massive clicks, threats and intimidation are made, or if this happens anonymously, and unfortunately we have examples of this in our own parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u21	I was a little confused by the remark that the real problem is not there, but here. However, Mr Ten Broeke will have to acknowledge that the oppositions and oppositions between people come mainly from the Turkish authorities and the Turkish consulate. Then what does he ask of this government? I have mentioned the example of the Reformatorisch Dagblad, but other newspapers may also receive this kind of reprimand. We are used to getting them from the Turkish consulate, but now many more agencies, including the media, are threatened. What message should the government send to the Turkish Government on such threats and intimidations, according to the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u22	I was talking about the feeling of displeasure in our own society that is fed by the idea that you are not free here, that you are intimidated. The fact that Dutch media editors receive letters from foreign governments is part of that, that is one and the same problem. I only distinguish between foreign governments that have to investigate and prove that they are orchestrating and deliberately deploying actions, such as at the click line of the Turkish consulate in Rotterdam, and on the other hand massive actions that are being launched by Turkish Dutch people themselves to intimidate them. This may be normal in Turkish society, but it is practices that I do not want in the society we share with each other, nor in this Parliament, in so far as that is what I hope is still a reflection of our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u23	Madam President. After seventeen long days of land arrest in Turkey, columnist Ebru Umar fortunately returned to the Netherlands last week. Although there has sometimes been strong criticism, including of the Prime Minister, I still have the impression that the cabinet has taken everything out of the closet to get Umar back to the Netherlands. In my opinion, it is without precedent that a Dutchman who got into trouble abroad could count on calls from both the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister. Chapeau before that. Concerns now exist especially at the safety of Umar, who regularly makes enemies with her sharp, sometimes offensive columns. Can the Minister state whether everything is being done to ensure the safety of the columnist? There are also concerns about the criminal investigation against Umar because of the alleged insult of the Turkish President Erdogan, because that investigation is still ongoing as far as is known. Can this be addressed? What's the status? Can we also discuss the possibility of extradition to Turkey if the trial continues? Does the Minister agree with the SP that the insult of the Turkish President should not be the subject of extradition? The Metro columnist is by the way only one of the about 2,000 people who have had to deal with insult charges since President Erdogan's arrival in August 2014. This is not because of new legislation. Insulting the President has been a criminal offence in Turkey for a long time, but in the past it has been very rarely prosecuted. That raises the question of why so many lawsuits have started now. What does this say about President Erdogan? Can the Minister answer that? Does the Minister also pay attention to all those others, including journalists, academics and politicians who have been charged? I have the impression that Europe and the Netherlands have remained very quiet on this point until recently. Umar's arrest fits a pattern. Freedom of expression and freedom of the press have been under great and increasing pressure in Turkey for years. In the latest global index of freedom of the press, drawn up annually by the reporters Without Borders, Turkey has again dropped a few places. It is now in place 151, which is lower than Venezuela, Russia and Tajtjikistan, for example. Turkey also scores extremely badly every year with regard to journalists under lock and key. This is reflected in the review drawn up by the Committee on the Protection of Journalists at the end of each year. Only China, Egypt, Iran and Eritrea did worse in 2015. Infamous examples are the two journalists of the newspaper Cumhuriyet who were arrested for writing about arms supplies by the Turkish secret service to warriors in Syria. These Turkish journalists, Can Dündar and Erdem Gül, have recently been sentenced to five years in prison. Can the Minister respond to that? Various groups in the Chamber have called for research into such supplies. These journalists provided the evidence and Europe looks away. Can the Minister also indicate more generally how the Netherlands and the EU respond to the repression of freedom of expression and freedom of the press in the candidate country of Turkey itself? The increasing repression in Turkey cannot be seen in isolation from the continuing conflict in the Kurdish south-east of the country which has been stirred up again last summer. I was there earlier this month. The devastation of towns and villages and the great suffering of the population were shocking. Maintaining reports that citizens have been deliberately attacked led the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to call for an independent investigation into violence and access for UN personnel to conduct research in the region. Turkey still does not make that possible. Does the Minister support this call from the UN? The repression of the Kurds has now also reached parliament. There is a law in the making that rules that parliamentarians are deprived of their immunity if there are investigations, often terrorism-related, against them. This is a development which seems to affect pro-Kurdish HDP MPs in particular. Although persecution of terrorism sounds sympathetic, it should be noted that in the Turkish context this often means that critics who have nothing to do with terrorism are silenced. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mr. Chairman. Democracy is like a train. You ride along until you get to your destination and then you jump off. That's what Erdogan said 18 years ago. This very dangerous tyrant has already left his desired destination: the halting Islamic dictatorship. His tentacles also reach into the Netherlands. It seems that the AK party even has its own section in our parliament. Klik-Turken from our own country ensured that Ebru Umar was grounded for weeks for insult. History teaches us that dictators should never be admitted. The cabinet should, of course, have publicly demanded its release, otherwise it should have deported the Turkish ambassador. But Prime Minister Rutte was in trouble. He has made us completely dependent on Erdogan in guarding our borders, who can make demands on our freedoms. It took the Netherlands, the President of the EU, no less than 17 days to free Umar from the Turkish claws. And that's not a victory, it's a mockery. The cabinet has to show some nerve for once and do the following. Guarantee that Umar will never be extradited. Do not let Erdogan into the Netherlands as long as Umar is at risk of prosecution. Set up a negative travel advice for Turkey. Furthermore, no 6 billion, no visa-free travel and never Turkish accession to the EU. Stop the influence of the Turkish state in our own country, because thousands of Lower Turks are not loyal to the Netherlands, but to Erdogan. We say to them: turn in your Dutch passport and go to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to join the groups that have congratulated the cabinet for resolving Mrs Umar's land arrest. It is right that this demonstrates the importance of diplomacy. I also agree with the groups that have asked questions about how she is going to proceed. The arrest of Ebru Umar is an unacceptable restriction on freedom of the press and freedom of expression. Within Turkey, that fits in a pattern. Dutch journalists such as Fréderike Geerdink, Mehmet Ülger and Bram Vermeulen had to deal with the limited freedom of the press in Turkey. The Zaman newspaper has been taken over by the government. The main editor of the newspaper Cumhuriyet has been sentenced to five years in prison and critical TV channels have been removed from the sky. In Turkey, freedom of the press has never been good, but it has been better than it is now. It is disappointing that the ruling AK party and its leader, President Erdogan, have resolutely turned their backs on freedom of the press, because that freedom is closely linked to the European Union. EU membership is unthinkable without freedom of expression. Visa liberalisation is unthinkable without adapting terrorism legislation to the European standard. I would again like to hear confirmation that the government is maintaining these conditions and not relaxing them, in line with the Verhoeven-Klaver motion. GroenLinks wants to continue talking to Turkey, but never compromise at the expense of our principles. A series of critical Umar tweets about the Turkish government were grounds for arrest. Any opinion on Erdogan should be able to be expressed in the Netherlands, just as people can express any opinion on Umar's columns. But what about Twitter? Can every Dutchman in Turkey be arrested for his or her tweets? Does it matter from which country you tweet? Does it matter which passport you have? The restriction of freedom of the press in Turkey is serious, but for us it is even more serious if freedom is restricted in the Netherlands. This freedom is, after all, a matter that concerns us first. Freedom of expression deserves an active defence, because once again a public figure in the Netherlands needs to be protected. I trust that the justice system and the police will make every effort to get the bad guys and the burglars. Would the cabinet like to inform the Chamber of the progress of the investigation? Reports about Ankara's long arm are intimidating. Is the click line from the Turkish consulate really out of the sky? Has there really been a misunderstanding and do all the contacts of the consulate know that there has been a misunderstanding here? Some Dutch people like to participate in that long arm. Then what can the cabinet do to reduce that comprehensibility for Ankara's line? How do we ensure that people do not feel limited by actions by the Turkish government in the Netherlands? The cabinet must be on top of that. The cabinet must do everything in its power to give Turkish Dutch people the same freedom as all Dutch. People who live here belong to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. The vacation of Ebru Umar in Turkey was brutally disturbed. On April 23rd, the police were at her door. Because of the critical tweets about President Erdogan, she was arrested. She wasn't allowed out of the country. She was threatened in Turkey and the Netherlands. During her stay in Turkey, her house was broken into. Our group is very happy and relieved to be back in the Netherlands. However, the fact that she now needs security says a lot. For Ebru Umar, it's not a business as usual. As far as our group is concerned, this also applies to relations with Turkey. The repression of Erdogan is increasing. His long arm extends far into Europe. His supporters in the Netherlands threaten and intimidate opponents. There was a click line. It was a misunderstanding. Who's gonna believe it? This arrest wasn't an incident. It's a pattern, a long-term pattern. First, I will deal with the arrest in the Ebru Umar case and then with the bigger picture that I believe this arrest is part of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u27	I thought that perhaps Mr Knops would start with a little Ienimienie compliment to the government and the diplomatic services for ensuring, through quiet diplomacy and not the megaphone policy he requested from the government on 26 April, that Mrs Umar could come back to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u28	I started my contribution by saying that I am happy and relieved. You're really early. You will have to wait for the highlight to come once in a while, because I was just about to give a heartfelt compliment to the government and the diplomats involved. As Mr Van Bommel said, it is rare for so many rulers to interfere in a matter. I mean that, too. I'd like to pay that compliment. Thank you for the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u29	I like that very much. Mr Knops started his story on Ms. Umar and then went straight on to some of the following points. That's why I thought he'd gone over this, but his highlight did come a little later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u30	You've known me a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u31	Please continue. Do you have another highlight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u32	Now don't ask questions, Mr. Chairman. I don't think you should interrupt me. I'm gonna keep going. I'll stop with the compliments, if you don't mind. I think that was enough. Our group is still critical. In fact, on 26 April and earlier, it expressed strong words about the fact that the government did not strongly condemn what had happened. What was said about this was regrettable. I think you should not talk to flour in your mouth about this kind of thing, but you should take strict measures. The ambassador was not summoned. Erdogan didn't get a call. At the same time, I say that the result is important. I have a different role to play from the cabinet, and I will not let Mr Ten Broeke or anyone else say what I should or should not say about this matter. I think this is a very important subject. Everyone must be very clear about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mr Knops would like to make a clear statement on something. I would like to give him the opportunity to do so. Could he reflect on the difference between Germany and the Netherlands? While the German Chancellor actually handed over the German satirist, everything was done here in the Netherlands to get a Dutch columnist released. Can Mr Knops reflect on the difference between these two situations? Which one does he prefer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u34	As a member of the Dutch Parliament, I am dealing with...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u35	Don't dive now!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u36	No, I'm not diving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u37	Just reflect on the question I just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u38	You can ask what you want, but I am not in the German Parliament and I do not have to judge the Chancellor. I'm not gonna do that here either. I judge the Dutch government on its actions. I now have to compliment you for the third time; that was really not my intention before this debate. I have just spoken about the Dutch Government's efforts in this area. However, I believe that this is part of a pattern that has been visible for much longer. That's why this case isn't on its own. The government has been talking about this with flour for a long time, not only in response to questions from my group but also in response to those from other groups. It is not clear about the role Turkey plays in engaging with IS, in releasing people suspected of being involved with IS, the IS leaders, and in picking up nearly a thousand journalists. In view of all these issues, this issue deserves to be discussed. Mr Ten Broeke has just suggested that we should have been silent as a parliament and that we should have let the government do its job, but I do not think that this is in line with my role as a parliamentarians. The government is judged by its actions. The result is no different than positive, but I say that this is only a part of it. This is about the return of Ebru Umar. That case hasn't been solved yet. There's a lot more going on. I'm also gonna appeal to the government on the other things that are going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u39	It is clear why Mr Knops does not dare to respond to the actions of the CDA colleague, the CDU colleague, I would almost say, Mrs Merkel, for whom he would otherwise always be very grateful. The result is that in Germany there is a satirist who has to fear criminal proceedings in his own country and a Dutch columnist has been released from Turkey. She may not be in her own place, but at least she's free. The great difference between the two governments does not dare to comment here, but at least let him reflect on his own tweets. After the arrest, he needed less than six hours to blame this cabinet for not finding the Turkish Government's phone number. That was literally in Mr. Knops' tweet. On that day, I spoke in a public meeting with his colleague Omtzigt, who was ashamed that this government was able to call the columnist Ebru Umar, but did nothing about the Turkish Government. Mr Knops, today is the day on which you can put that right. It would please you if you did it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u40	No, I am not going to correct anything here in accordance with Mr Ten Broeke's plan. I repeat that we are here in the Dutch Parliament and that I judge the Dutch cabinet on its actions. That is what you can address me today, not Merkel's or anyone else's behavior. I am not going to judge Timmermans and others who have played a role in this either. This is the Umar issue. It is on the agenda here and we should discuss it. Mr Ten Broeke, what you are trying to do is all nice and kind, but this is really out of the order of this debate. I can say the following, looking at how this all went. I did indeed ask if there had been any contact and if the Prime Minister had already called. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, in particular, was initially very persistent. That is allowed; we now know how it ended. He doesn't have the most powerful words... I hear all kinds of words from box-K. I don't know if those words are part of the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u41	I hear those words, too. No, they are not part of the Acts, nor are they recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mr Knops now calls the Minister for Foreign Affairs "sustainable." The Foreign Minister responded with exactly the same words as CDA Foreign Minister Maxime Verhagen when a colleague of ours, Geert Wilders, tried to show a film in a European country, in a Member State of the European Union. The only difference was that this Foreign Minister did so within a few hours and that Minister Maxime Verhagen, Mr Knops' party, needed two days to do so, when Mr Geert Wilders had long returned and England was not allowed to enter. That's the difference. If Mr Knops does not want to comment on Mrs Merkel's behaviour and on his own tweets, will he at least reflect on the behaviour of this foreign minister compared to that of his foreign minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u43	I have already indicated that I believe that the Foreign Minister should be clearer with regard to Turkey. The Foreign Minister knows this; I have said this in previous debates. This is not just about this issue. My reaction must also be seen in that context. It wasn't an incident. I have just indicated that there is a pattern in the events concerning Turkey. I see that flour is spoken in the mouth and that no clear language is used. It is not clear from the first moment that there will be very strong convictions. The ambassador was not summoned. The Foreign Minister said that Erdogan has a ceremonial function and that he is not being called. "A ceremonial function"? Excuse me? Mr Davutoğlu, the person with whom Prime Minister Rutte did call, can now get him out of his phone; he has disappeared from the scene, thanks to that ceremonial president. It's about something. As a parliament, we are entitled to ask how it could not be clarified quickly and that there was no strong condemnation, other than 'we regret it'? I've responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u44	I am sorry as hairs on my head of my first interruption, because if this is a compliment, it is quite a small, lean compliment, to be honest. You complimented me, but then you said that it was actually all wrong, that it didn't make any sense, that the minister did nothing and that the rulers did something too late. They did what they had to do. They made sure that Mrs Umar finally came back to the Netherlands; point. So there is no reason for all these ifs and buts, which you come with endlessly. That's not a compliment, at least not in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mrs. Maij might have expected something else. I have also complimented you, but allow me to be critical of matters which are also related to the Umar case and which are broader. I have also made comments on this. Mrs Maij is now only projecting this on the Umar issue. I said that: congratulations for the result. But there is much more with Turkey, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u46	In Mr Knops's questions on 26 April, he indicated that this government should be firm and strong, should call and call people on the mat on Mrs Umar's case. In my view, the rulers have done so in the most effective way. That is not Mr Knops' way of doing this, I think he would not have taken a step forward, but rather the way of silent diplomacy. Mrs Umar has indeed come back with this. For that, a compliment is appropriate; for that, not all the terms and conditions that Mr Knops puts in place do not fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u47	Perhaps quiet diplomacy also needs a lot of power from Parliament; perhaps it will work even more effectively. Each plays its own role. I understand the coalition is playing its part here, and that's fine. But I play my part here and I do it with conviction. The question is for the Foreign Minister to answer the reasons why Umar was suddenly allowed to leave Turkey. Has the Netherlands made any concessions to Turkey? How'd all that go? The letters that have been sent about this are rather shallow. Perhaps the Minister or the Prime Minister can say more about this. What we are talking about here is that everything is connected. The Prime Minister reacted very agitated when a connection was made with the Turkey deal and the reaction to what is happening in Turkey. If you look at the situation there, by a number of colleagues, that is also said. Erdogan has made statements about democracy and the rule of law, namely that they no longer have any meaning. He mentioned Hitler-Germany as an example of effective governance. Stand on it! I think that when this EU-Turkey deal comes into force, a lot of Turks will come this way. The Secretary of State for Justice has already said something about this this morning. Does the cabinet have any idea what effect it's going to have? After the migration deal Erdogan became increasingly assertive across Turkish borders. Think of the persecution of Bömermann, but also of the click line in the Netherlands. The cabinet mainly expresses its concerns, but we all have those concerns. The question is, however, what is the cabinet going to do next? The Chamber previously called on the cabinet to move to increase the pressure. The opposite happened: the EU and this cabinet were put under pressure by the EU-Turkey deal. I would like to underline one more point made by Mr Van Bommel. In 2014 the Minister for Social Affairs took a firm tone against Turkish organisations in the Netherlands. It is known that many mosques and dome associations are under the direct influence of the Turkish State. The Minister called for greater transparency. What is the situation at the moment, so I ask the Prime Minister? Finally, I come to the problem of double nationality. Ebru Umar has indicated that he intends to withdraw from Turkish nationality. However, Turkish Dutch people who wish to surrender their Turkish passport run into problems. Is the cabinet prepared to urge Turkey to relax the procedure for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. Last week we saw what the Foreign Minister, the Prime Minister and the diplomatic service were fighting for each other. Mrs Umar is back in the Netherlands, thanks to effective, silent diplomacy, as I have just said to Mr Knops. That diplomacy works better than the megaphone diplomacy of calling and shouting, despite the fact that this was requested in the Chamber. It all sounds very good, but the hard work of the diplomats and these rulers has been successful. The PvdA stands for Mrs Umar's freedom to say and find everything, even if we do not always agree with her in substance. Underlying, however, there seems to be a problem with the people who have turned her in and who are apparently threatening her now. I am also looking at my colleague, who is experiencing the same thing. The number of incidents is worrying and brings uncomfortable feelings inside and outside the Turkish community in the Netherlands. We stand for our modern European values. We must build a bridge to the Turkish-Dutch community, but also between the different groups in that community, so that it does not become more divided in our country. There's a need for conversations. Then I come to the situation in Turkey. The arrest of columnist Umar is part of a series of events in Turkey, which further restricts freedom of expression. Many of my colleagues have already referred to this. Recently, there was again the sad example of Cumhuriyet's journalists, including the lead editor, who were sentenced to five years in prison for doing their job. Publicly this is called: because of espionage and overthrow of the government. As has already been mentioned, Turkey is now in the beautiful 151st place of the international index for freedom of the press by Reporters Without Borders. That is an extremely worrying development. How does the government support the freedom of the press in Turkey by the people who like to stand for it? For the talks with Turkey on democratisation and the rule of law, of which freedom of the press and freedom of expression are an integral part, are not taken off the ground. As part of Turkey's status as a candidate for EU membership, it should, of course, be. For this reason, the PvdA continues to advocate the opening of chapters 23 and 24 on democratisation and the rule of law and for the real start of talks with Turkey on these issues. These should be less non-binding. What's the government's position on this? What are the Netherlands and the EU doing to stop and start these negative developments? The PvdA believes that, now that there are problems in Turkey, this should never be a reason not to agree with that country on other issues, such as the urgent refugee issue. There are still millions of refugees in Turkey who need support and protection. We do not leave those people in Turkey who do want progress in the cold. Wherever possible, we must continue to support these positive forces. That will also be more than necessary in the near future. Is that what the government does? And how can the government possibly do that together with the European Union, the European Commission? Finally, I would like to comment on another point. Mr Van Bommel mentioned the situation in south-east Turkey. There are signs that the Turkish army is using violent force there, as is the case with the PKK. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights wants to investigate whether violations of humanitarian law have taken place. However, access to the region and information are still insufficient. It is clear that tens of thousands and even hundreds of thousands of people in Turkey, in their own country, are fleeing the violence. Does the government know more about the investigation? How can this investigation take shape? Reference has already been made to the attempts to deprive HDP MPs of parliamentary immunity due to alleged acts of terrorism. What is the latest state of play on this matter? What is the Netherlands as EU President aware of the situation in Cizre and developments in the south-east of Turkey? This is all very worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u49	I still have a short question. Perhaps I missed it, but I noticed that Mrs Maij had made a very clear statement in the media about the possible extradition of Mrs Umar to Turkey. In this Chamber, however, I have heard no comment from her or a question from the cabinet. Does she still support that remark? Under no circumstances can Ebru Umar be extradited?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u50	I believe that I have said that it seems unimaginable to me, and that still seems unimaginable to me. Mr Sjoerdsma has been a diplomat like me. So he knows how exchange treaties work. He also knows what the terms of exchange agreements are. In that context, I think it is impossible for this to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u51	Yeah, "unexistent." It's a bit of a judgment. Mrs. Maij wouldn't believe it's happening. I would not believe that either, but my question is what Mrs Maij is asking the cabinet to do. Does she summon the cabinet to never extradite? Or was it just a judgment that she gave in the press but which the cabinet actually doesn't have to do anything with? I would hope that she would now also instruct the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u52	Perhaps Mr Sjoerdsma will be able to read the article properly again. Then he can read that it contains exactly what I have said now, namely that it is about the exchange agreements and the conditions that apply to them, and that it seems to me impossible to exist. That was the quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mr. Chairman. First of all, welcome back, Ebru Umar! I sincerely hope, for her but also for ourselves, that she will quickly get out of the reach of Erdogan's long arm. After all, Ebru Umar is back in the Netherlands, but unfortunately she is not yet at large. She has to stay in a secret place because Erdogan followers are after her. She's under threat. There was a break-in with her, where an uneducated hand scribbled words on the wall. Ordinary burglars don't do that; this burglary was pure harassment. Of course, I don't know who ordered that intimidation. What I do know is that the Turkish state intimidates critics in Turkey, but also abroad. The Turkish consulate in the Netherlands, which called for all critical comments about Erdogan, is an example of this. There is no misunderstanding: the Turkish state is interfering with our freedom of expression and he can do so because the Netherlands and the EU want something from Turkey. Belgian Turks are not surprised at setting a click line. They know that Erdogan abroad is increasingly applying the practices with which he creates fear in his own country among opponents of his policy. In Belgium Internet spies are active that search websites in search of critical reports about the Turkish regime. Critics are listed as enemies of the state and later intimidated. In Belgium there is a black list with hundreds of names of Belgian Turks criticizing Erdogan, the Flemish newspaper De Morgen revealed on 26 April. Those people are not allowed in Turkey anymore. Family visits are therefore no longer possible. During oral Question Time on 26 April, there was already talk about the arrest of Ebru Umar. I then asked the Minister about the existence of a blacklist of Dutch Turks, with Turks who are critical or were critical of Erdogan's policy. That click line of the Turkish consulate can of course be a first step towards a similar blacklist of critical Dutch Turks. Can the Minister clarify that? Why should Turkish spies operate differently in the Netherlands than in Belgium? In a month and a half we find ourselves in the bizarre situation that Turks can travel visa-free to the Netherlands, as long as they do not criticize Erdogan. But Belgian, and perhaps Dutch and German Turks who are critical of Erdogan or his AK party, are no longer allowed in Turkey. Do we want to conclude visa agreements with such a country? I'd like a response. On 26 April the minister was not yet aware of the Belgian blacklist of critics of Erdogan. In the meantime, he has had time to look into this. That is why I have four more questions for the Minister. Firstly, is there a black list of critical Turks in the Netherlands? Secondly, what can and what will the Minister do to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands can express themselves freely, even if that is against Erdogan's sore leg? Thirdly, how is the Minister going to ensure that Mrs Ebru Umar will soon be able to live a normal life in the Netherlands, not intimidated and free to write what she wants? Finally, what consequences does the harassment of Turks in the Netherlands have for cooperation with Turkey? Is the Cabinet prepared to say no to visa-free travel for the time being, as long as this intimidation continues? I'd like a response. I want to end with a quote from George Washington, the first President of the United States: "If freedom of speech disappears, we will remain stupid and silent, and we will be led to the butcher like easy sheep."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr. Chairman. It is extremely regrettable that the Dutch columnist Ebru Umar was arrested in Turkey. The SGP also congratulated the cabinet on its diplomatic commitment, on the support of Mrs Umar and on her release. This underlines the value of a healthy diplomatic movement between countries, even when relations between them are under pressure. We can make a long nose against countries we do not agree with, but sometimes you also need the long breath of diplomacy to get things done. In a debate like this I always have to overcome a slight inconvenience, in the sense that when we stand up for famous Dutch people, the unknown tourist or businessman who gets into trouble thinks: would there be that attention for me? I believe that it is also part of the values of the Dutch rule of law that everyone has to stand up in difficult circumstances. I do not go into this debate with enthusiasm either because I had such a nice conversation with Mrs Umar for the Dragonelle, which was the case. Everyone must therefore be entitled to the protection of the Dutch government. Nevertheless, the debate is also good for what is more important in Turkey. Colleagues have already mentioned detailed examples of this. It is a symbol of worrying developments in Turkey. That President Erdogan has very long toes, he proves time and time again. Furthermore, I am thinking of taking over critical Turkish newspapers and the arrestering of journalists. I recently read in a law magazine annoying examples of how lawyers are being harassed. I also call it outlawing certain Members of Parliament. All this shows how little the Turkish Government has to do with fundamental rights to protect against a meddling government, which is essential in our view. In this context, we continue to have a great deal of difficulty with and continue to reject the visa liberalisation and candidate membership of the European Union. We believe that this does not fit in with the shared values involved. What I do like, by the way, is that, even with a country like Turkey, even though you have all kinds of objections to it, you are trying very concretely to make agreements on the refugee issue. If you just say "there's a lot wrong with that country, we don't talk about it" you get scenes that you shouldn't want with each other. Turkey's long arm continues to the Netherlands. Mr Voordewind mentioned the main editorial comment of the Reformatorisch Dagblad, which was addressed by the Turkish embassy by letter because of a critical comment on Erdogan. Does the cabinet agree with me that this kind of intensive interference with newspaper comments, cross-border, is inappropriate and that this is something other than when you send a factsheet in your diplomatic relations or show the light of what's going on. These things are causing a great deal of displeasure. How far does the Turkish Government's influence extend? Can Dutch media continue to express their vision independently? How is this potential infringement prevented by Turkey? What is the government doing here? That is also my most important concrete question: to reverse this trend of interference? Freedom of expression is the right to stand on long toes. That is what the SGP stands for, and that is what this debate is about, but I would always like to continue to speak with two words, in the sense that these freedoms are always calling for a responsible use. This means that decency and well-being are not dirty words and that they are also part of a civilisation and there is nothing wrong with wise self-control. What's wrong with it is when people have to watch their words because they're afraid of intimidation or threat. In the case of Mrs Umar, there is this fear of intimidation and threat when we hear about security concerns. I ask the government to stand up for it, but also for all those other people who are threatened by their freedom, and to take all the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u55	We have come to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a half-hour suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u56	Mr. Chairman. I myself will be happy to answer questions that are very specific about Ebru Umar. These are questions about what has happened so far, questions about how it is developing and also a number of questions about the financing of security, for example. I also address a number of questions about Turkey's alleged influence in the Netherlands and finally I answer the questions about the agreements with Turkey on how to deal with the refugee problem. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will answer questions that are wider to the issue of human rights and freedom of the press. He will discuss legal assistance for journalists. It will also address questions on visa liberalisation and on the current situation with regard to Kurdish parliamentarians and the situation in South-East Turkey. All these questions will be answered by the Foreign Minister. With regard to the release itself, the possibility for Ebru Umar to return to the Netherlands, I would particularly like to congratulate Bert Koenders, the Foreign Minister. He has done the lion's share of the work, both in front of and behind the scenes, according to the best principles of quiet diplomacy. That also means that anything else I say about this could further weaken the matter, even in the future. I can therefore say very little about this. Our people in Ankara and the people in the Foreign Office have worked very hard. Official support has been provided from General Affairs. It's been worked awfully hard. Of course, no concessions have been made. We're not negotiating. That's what I've said before. This is a matter that affects a core principle of the Netherlands: freedom of expression and freedom of the press. They don't make deals about that. We have been asked how things could proceed now. The fact is that the Turkish prosecutor's office still has to decide whether she will be prosecuted. That investigation is still ongoing. So Turkey has not yet taken a decision on persecution. This also raises the question of possible extradition, of course, prematurely. Nevertheless, we went to see of course. Suppose it would come to that, if Turkey were to prosecute and there would be a question of extradition. We can see that the extradition of Ebru Umar, for legal reasons alone, given the relevant legal framework, will not be possible. If it comes to that, then this extradition, as far as we are concerned, will not be on the agenda. Again, it is not yet that, because the Turks still have to decide whether to prosecute. Then, security. I can only reply to this in general terms, because, of course, no communication is made in concrete situations. I can say in general that measures are taken in such cases in good consultation between the National Coordinator on Terrorism and Security, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the employer. The government has a responsibility, of course. Those measures are also taken to ensure the safety of all Dutch people. I would also like to say that in principle they are responsible for their safety. That can also be with their employer. If there is a threat that citizens cannot defend themselves against, additional measures will also be taken by the government. I can say in general that the security situation is well monitored with regard to Ebru Umar. But again, I cannot comment on the nature and numbers of the measures and/or threats. Mr. Chairman. I see that Mr Bontes wants to ask a question. I assume this is about a previous point, because it's been there for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u57	I have also seen Mr Bontes, but I thought you might want to make your introduction first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u58	This was all I wanted to say about Mrs Umar, her return to the Netherlands and the follow-up. I will get to the questions about Turkey's influence in the Netherlands and its consistency with the refugee agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u59	I do indeed have a question about the extradition of Mrs Umar. The Prime Minister says it won't be on the agenda. That is a little too non-committal, or rather too non-committal. I would like a guarantee from the Prime Minister that she will not be extradited. I know the Prime Minister's story about guarantees and that they are given on vacuum cleaners, so he doesn't have to deal with them now. I want a guarantee that Mrs Umar will not be extradited to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u60	We have the separation of powers in the Netherlands and the judge is primarily about that. We are dealing with the legislative framework. Parliament and government have once jointly agreed as co-legislators that if extradition is requested, there should be a prison sentence in both countries that stands for at least one year; if extradition were requested in this case, it would not be as yet, since there has not even been a decision to prosecute. In the case of insulting the President, that threshold has not been met under Dutch law. If the case of Ms Umar were to be prosecuted and sentenced, extradition would not be possible. However, I cannot give a guarantee on behalf of the Dutch judge. I can only say that according to our interpretation of Dutch law, which we have jointly made, this does not seem to be conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u61	As the Prime Minister explains, it becomes very legal. That's really not enough. I will certainly table a motion in the second term in which I will ask for guarantees, because she is entitled to them in this case. In addition, it is important for others with regard to precedent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u62	I think we should keep an eye on the facts here. We have here the separation of powers according to Montesquieu. We are jointly the legislative power and there is a separate judicial power. If the power of justice does anything that deviates from what we want here, we have to change the law. As the law is and as we interpret it, it really seems to be out of the question. Mr Bontes is asking me for a guarantee, but it can only be given by the judge. I can't give you that guarantee. Again, it seems really excluded and I think that should be enough for the moment. I come to a number of questions about Turkey's influence in the Netherlands. First of all, freedom of expression and, in the specific case of Mrs Umar, freedom of the press are also guiding principles for this cabinet. I have just said that we cannot negotiate on this, that we cannot make deals about it and that we cannot make agreements on it. It's black and white; they're on or off. As far as we're concerned, they're always on. This also means that people in this country must always feel free to make their own choices and to vent their own views. As far as the Dutch Government is concerned, it is unacceptable that people should not be able to speak out because of fear of legal repercussions, for example during a holiday in Turkey. I am also pleased that all the groups have said so. That's the first thing I wanted to say about it in an introductory manner. I come to the specific question of rumours about the Turkish consulate's click line. On Thursday 21 April it appeared that the Turkish consulate in Rotterdam had made an appeal to report insults to the Turkish President Erdogan or the Turkish people to the consulate, including the names of those who had expressed the insult. We immediately took action by saying that this is not acceptable, because our Dutch legal system offers sufficient guarantees for this. Our announcement was that we do not need this call and that we do not need any help from Turkey, because we can handle it very well ourselves. The Turkish consulate stated that there was a misunderstanding. We have taken note of this, but the Foreign Minister, Bert Koenders, and I nevertheless felt it necessary for the Netherlands to protest, and that is what the Ambassador did in Ankara. He said that it was not clear to the Dutch Government what the Turkish government might have intended to do with this action, especially since the Dutch legal system already offers guarantees. He has also made it clear that this appeal has fallen extremely badly in the Netherlands, even among the Dutch of Turkish origin who feel intimidated by this action. At that time, the Turkish interlocutor confirmed that the consulate had withdrawn the message and that it had never intended to set up a hotline for reports of insults or to collect names. That is important and we are monitoring this very carefully. I notice that to this day it leads to violent reactions, even to myself. I was very upset when I heard this. People must be free to determine what they find, what they believe and what they say. We cannot accept in any way that Turkey intervenes in this. That is why we have reacted strongly to Turkey. In view of recent history, there is of course the case of Ebru Umar, which occurred the next Saturday. We've had the case around the foster kid Yunus before. I discussed this matter with Prime Minister Erdogan a few years ago, when he was Prime Minister of the House of Cats. This was also a matter of far-reaching interference from Turkey in Dutch national affairs. At that time, we also distanced ourselves sharply from it. This has led to a fairly famous press conference between me and the then Turkish Prime Minister, now President. We did not agree on this point, but as far as I am concerned, it was quite clear where the Netherlands is. It is important that people who are in this territory should be able to express their views freely, supported by all of us, by Chambers and Cabinets. First of all, please don't take long toes. When people feel intimidated, there is always the protection of the law, but we also know that there may be times when intimidation is felt, but that it is not yet the case that the law protects against it. In these situations, we, the Chamber, the Cabinet and all those involved in the social debate, will have to take a firm stand and say: we do not think that this is acceptable. This was about the matter in general and how the cabinet deals with Turkey's influence in the Netherlands. More specifically, it was about the questions that were asked about the reports on what the Turkish consulate would have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u63	Let me at least say that I don't have long toes. That's convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u64	That's because of your height.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u65	No, it's got him in something else. The Prime Minister mentioned the rumor of the click line. Was that a slip or did that click line never exist? Is the Prime Minister reassured by the Turkish response that it was a misunderstanding? Or does he have a different picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u66	The Turks have made it clear that it was a misunderstanding. We must accept that, but we are not naive. We are following this closely. This also applies, of course, to all the contacts we have on this subject. If that click line is there or still is entered, then that will lead to... But well, then we are in a like-dance situation. It is clear that this is totally unacceptable to the Netherlands. I said it earlier: if Dutch people were afraid abroad because they had ever criticized me, which of course would be bizarre, but it could happen and would not dare return to the Netherlands, it would be very quiet here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u67	I agree with the Prime Minister on that last point. My point is about the fact that the Prime Minister has just said quite clearly: if there are intimidation and threats here, that is unacceptable. But often it goes in a very subtle way. I spoke of the week of an entrepreneur who said that he is being approached and is being addressed on his views on the Turkish Government. He's told that if you keep doing that, we'll make sure you don't get any more assignments. The word "we" refers to a number of Turkish Dutch. What is the Cabinet going to do to counter these subtle, subtle threats, so that people won't say what they actually think?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u68	The important thing is that when that happens, it comes out. It is very good that this entrepreneur has said this to Mr Knops. Then we can discuss it here, too. It gets very complicated when we don't know. I just said there's a section called "long toes." I heard Mr Van der Staaij say something about the letter from the Turkish embassy to the newspaper. I think that's a matter of long toes. I'm not surprised that the Turkish embassy is sending letters to a newspaper. For our part, letters are also sent to newspapers abroad. Mr Van der Staaij and I disagree on this point. In addition to issues of long toes, there are issues where people are rightly intimidated. Mr Knops's point is a good example of this. Then it's just a question of whether the law was broken at that time. Probably not. Then you're typically in the intermediate area I just mentioned. That is extremely subtle; Mr Knops rightly said so. That is why it is extremely dangerous. People could be tempted to hold back. All we can do then is discuss it with each other and take a sharp distance from it. Let us make it absolutely clear to this entrepreneur that we support him and that there is unacceptable behaviour. This includes making clear to the people from outside the Netherlands who come to the Netherlands what our values are, what we have built up in 200 or 300 years in the areas of freedom of the press, freedom of expression, equality of men and women, freedom of faith, white and black, gay and straight. Fortunately, we have achieved all the naivety in this respect in the last ten years. We say to those people, "You just have to stick to that." We expect you to adapt to that, to realize that, to respect that and in no way intimidate people who act in accordance with these freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u69	The Prime Minister has already referred to the point I raised about the newspaper that was being touched on. If I have understood the Prime Minister correctly, he said that it is possible that such a thing happens and that a country acts in this way. I wonder if there's a difference between spreading facts in newspapers or in general as an embassy of a country, and really going into discussion as an embassy and sending letters saying you don't agree with main editorial comments. Is that as common as the Prime Minister's suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u70	No, it's not common, but I don't think it's harassment. Het Nederlands Dagblad, or the Reformatorisch Dagblad, is a widely read newspaper, which can report this. It will not be intimidated by the threat: we will make you a cup smaller. Nor is it said to that newspaper: we will affect you financially or economically if you do not meet what we expect from you. That's what I think of the long toes department, because that newspaper can just defend itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u71	I agree. I therefore deliberately did not use the word 'intimidation'. But I did use the word "inappropriate." It now came up on this issue. Apparently, the tendency is not to leave the matter to civil society organisations.All people in the Netherlands can express their views but to interfere intensively and not just to mention facts, but to send a letter immediately if one disagrees with something. Isn't that an overly meddling attitude? Should we not say that we would be pleased if a little more distance was observed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u72	I agree with Van der Staaij. If it's on that scale, I agree with him. But that's the "unusual" department. That's a taste issue. This debate is mainly about where the limit of intimidation lies and where the limit of it is. I know the people of the Reformatorisch Dagblad and the Nederlands Dagblad. They will write more than less critical articles about Turkey if they receive such a letter. That, of course, completely stores like a boomerang in this case the Turkish embassy. However, they have the power of free speech. I think that's a slightly different matter than the example of Knops, who talked about an entrepreneur who says: you don't get contracts anymore. Then you're really dealing with harassment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u73	I totally agree that you should not put this under the term "intimidation." This is covered by "unpleasant forms of intensive interference." This is an example of how this is done with newspapers and how it can affect business people. It is good to know how a country operates and to draw your limits on that point in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u74	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u75	We are now in the categories 'long toes' and 'unpleasant'. If you add it together, the sum total must also say something. In any case, the urgency must be increased on the part of the Dutch government. In October last year we had the issue of the call for a vote. There was even a vote recommendation to many Turks, in which a letter was distributed by the AK party, including addresses. Where these addresses came from, I do not think that is clear to date. The Dutch Government would check whether this was done in other countries as well. Do we have an answer to that? Do we know anything about that? In the sum total, however, a picture is beginning to emerge that tells me that I want to know more about it. Shouldn't there just be an active investigation into forms of mass influence of the Turkish community in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u76	We, the Minister for Integration, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and myself from General Affairs, are of course extremely keen on the relationship. This, of course, affects the relations in the Netherlands. As I said in my introductory word, you can see that tensions arise within the community. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of people with a Turkish background in the Netherlands. There may be tensions among that group which are extremely undesirable. In my opinion, Mr Ten Broeke pointed out this in his first speech, when he said that we could not talk about creating sectarian tensions in a society. That is absolutely unacceptable. It also includes the use of addresses for voting advice. That's not possible. I do not have the specific answer to the question put by Mr Ten Broeke. I was just checking with Bert Koenders. He told me that at the moment we have no hard leads to this. Perhaps we can look into whether we will have a further answer in the second period to the specific question that was raised at that time. I agree with Ten Broeke that you need to look at the whole thing. I mentioned the Yunus case and a number of other cases, but you also have to look at the whole thing. You can look at what in the eyes of the Turkish consulate was a misunderstanding about that click line. The fact that it was a misunderstanding was also confirmed by Foreign Affairs in Ankara. You have to look at the whole and the image you see does not give rise to joy. Finally, I would add that my conversation with Davutoglu was also about this, the Prime Minister of Turkey, who was twice on that Sunday. That was exactly what it was about, and I brought it out. Bert Koenders also brought it out that day. That is why I found Mr Knops' contribution to be really bizarre on this point. We immediately brought it out on that day and said that this affects freedom of the press and freedom of expression; this is not acceptable. After we made that clear, the path of quiet diplomacy was followed further. Of course, because if you then continue to repeat that every day, then you would never have managed to bring her back. However, it was quite clear where we stood and I said this in my talks with Davutoglu. If Turkey really has the ambition to become a member of the European Union, then that is to say that core values such as freedom of expression and freedom of the press are also respected in Turkey. Otherwise, you can't and you shouldn't have that ambition. Then we can still do business with them. We do business with all kinds of countries that have values that are not ours. We must be pragmatic in this, but do not have the ambition to become a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u77	Of course, I fully agree with the latter. So it can also be a brief discussion when chapter 23 is opened. But apart from the position of the Dutch cabinet vis-à-vis Davutoglu or later his successor, if Erdogan has appointed another gentleman or lady to do it for him: I am talking about the sum sum. You have isolated incidents. Mr Knops mentioned one with an entrepreneur; letters were sent to the editors of Dutch newspapers and we now have the click line, but that turned out to be a mistake, and the voting advice for the AK party. In addition, I don't think we can approach this casually. I think there should be very clear that the Dutch Government is showing urgency here...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u78	Yeah, no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u79	... that priority should be given to this and that research should also be carried out if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u80	This also happened some time ago from Minister Asscher. At that time, it was about integration issues. We are extremely alert in all these matters. That's not just because it affects our core values, although that's the first reason we do it. This is where we stand as the Netherlands and this is unnegotiable. We are also alert to this because it is an important side aspect, but certainly extremely relevant, which can lead to exactly what Ten Broeke said in his first term: tensions within the community, sectarian tensions. That's the last thing you want in this country. We will do everything we can to prevent that. Finally, the question of the blacklist. We have no information that such a list would exist for Dutch travellers. Nor do we get any signals from the Dutch that they would be on such a list. However, we know that the Turkish authorities are keeping a so-called no-entry list to prevent the transit of people who want to join terrorist organisations such as ISIS. Finally, questions have been asked about how this is linked to the agreements on the flow of refugees. I continue to find it very interesting that a number of parties here say that we should suspend these agreements. I hear the CDA say that, I hear the Christian Union say it. I would point out, however, that only a few weeks ago large groups of people made the dangerous crossing from Turkey to Greece. The spiritual caretaker in Izmir sometimes had the hands literally full of funerals, ceremonies, to provide the families and relatives of people who had died during those passages with spiritual assistance and to manage the funerals. I think it's good news that that stopped, that those crossings have fallen by over 90% and that there are even days when no one crosses. This is also important because we have always found that the large numbers of people who come to Europe also lead to tensions in a society like the Netherlands, simply because people feel that this will change the Netherlands too quickly, that our values, our principles could change if we are not very clear to the people who come here. At the same time, we have also said that we will always be open to people who are on the run, but not in these numbers. We cannot act in this way as a society. Both from the immediate humanitarian point of view that the crossings have now virtually stopped, and from the knowledge that this can reduce tensions in Dutch society as regards the uncontrolled influx of very large groups of refugees into Dutch society, I find it really bizarre, may I use that word, Mr President? We agree that we do not have the same values in all respects, we do not like that and therefore we do not make agreements. That can't be true, can it? Then you can make agreements with very few countries in the world. Then that stream of refugees would get back on track. I have also heard Mr Sjoerdsma about this. Well, then I'd say, where's Pechtold's plan? He would come up with a big plan for dealing with the refugee crisis in the world. We never heard from him again. I assume that's his plan B then. But as long as there is no such thing, I hope these parties will understand that this cabinet and this coalition will continue to pursue this policy: humanitarian, reception in the region and proper reception there. That is why we are prepared to put money into that. It is about combating these life-threatening crossings, about the willingness, if the pressure on the communities becomes too great, to bring people from these countries to Europe, but in smaller numbers than they have come to us unregulated, at the same time in Dutch society, ensuring that people know that their neighbourhood, their society and the Netherlands as such are not suddenly experiencing major changes, which I do not want to see, which no one wants to experience, while maintaining our humanitarian principles. I would strongly recommend this in the attention of those groups. Against this background, I find the plea for the termination of these agreements incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u81	The comments of the Christian Union were made in the context of insecurity and human rights violations in Turkey. The Prime Minister can isolate that completely and talk about the boats, but we are all opposed to that. We are now receiving reports stating that Syrian refugees are being returned to the hands of Al-Nusra, an Al-Qaeda organisation. They're getting shot at the border. Those are elements that you have to consider...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u82	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u83	...the moment you do business with a country? We cannot ignore this, because we happen to need a country that stops the refugees, at least in the vision of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u84	Well, if that's the point, of course we agree. But I didn't get that impression from your contribution in the first term. Again, if that's your point, we agree. Of course, you have these kinds of signals to take extremely seriously. We discussed this in the previous debate when we discussed the outcome of the March Council. I refer to the role of the UNHCR, the role of the Commission, the importance which the Netherlands attaches to monitoring all such signals and, if necessary, taking action. We are in complete agreement on that. But that cannot be a reason not to make agreements with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u85	But the Prime Minister is actually isolating any incident with Turkey. While, when we are talking about visa-free travel, I refer to the progress report by this cabinet and the Commission, which states that Turkey has still not signed the Refugee Convention. Then it is also about protecting refugees according to international agreements. Turkey still does not comply with that. This also has to do with visa-free travel and the acceleration that is now in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u86	That's a completely different discussion. Then you talk about visa liberalisation; Koenders will go into that more closely. A letter was sent yesterday, and we await the Commission's assessment of benchmark 65. We have heard Erdogan's statements about this. This will have to continue in the coming weeks. We see whether it is possible to take a further step there or not. We will have to wait and see for that in the coming weeks. It is agreed that this will happen on 1 July, if it already happens. That does not mean that you have to say now: then I will stop the refugee agreements and let go of those boats, with all the dangers of that: the enormous uncontrolled influx towards Berlin and Amsterdam that is getting back on track. I think that's very unwise. I would like to bring that to the attention of the House, because otherwise we are going to have a little too much fact-free politics here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u87	I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for the questions I have been asked. I would like to thank the vast majority of the Chamber, which has once again underlined the importance of diplomacy in international relations, especially when we are dealing with something that has been of concern to us all, namely the arrest of a columnist, on the basis of a case which so directly affects freedom of expression, of press and of statements, everything we stand for in the Netherlands. By the way, silent diplomacy and open diplomacy are not necessarily opposites to each other. I think that quiet diplomacy is extremely important because our embassies know the lines of influence, the culture and the positions of power and have the contacts to be able to work to the maximum for Dutch people in the foreign world. That's really essential. That is silent diplomacy, and that is what it remains, no matter how annoying that sometimes is in the accountability to the Chamber. That does not mean, however, that the Prime Minister has also underlined that you do not then pronounce yourself publicly. I would also like to repeat what the Prime Minister just said. The fact that we are negotiating with Turkey on a number of issues relating to refugees, with asylum seekers, and I shall come back to this later, does not mean that we are not talking about freedom of the press. We have said publicly, here, publicly, in Question Time, but also in the press statements from the very first moment that this matter is of great concern to us. I will also say something about how we generally feel about freedom of the press, about the statements we have made on the subject and how we are trying to put forward those views, in a trend that is indeed negative in relation to the freedom of the press in Turkey. I believe that we are living in a time when it is particularly necessary to protect them, which means that a combination of open and silent diplomacy can be the most effective way of helping Dutch people in need. The Prime Minister has already addressed the specific issue. I would just like to say that we do not have a 'patch on the mouth' because we are also talking to Turkey about all kinds of other matters that concern the country. We cannot change that Turkey is where it is, with its geographical position between the Middle East and Europe. This brings me to a number of specific problems raised by a number of Members of Parliament with regard to freedom of the press. I share those concerns about the freedom of the press in Turkey. We have also talked about this on a number of occasions and, fortunately, we are not alone in our criticism, because it is widely shared. This is demonstrated, for example, by the Commission's progress report last autumn and by the European Parliament's report by Mrs Piri. Unfortunately, these negative trends are not new either. There have been different trends in Turkey over the past period from reform and openness to re-closure and restriction of freedom of the press. We have actually discussed this very extensively with our Turkish counterparts on a weekly basis. I'm meeting the Turkish Foreign Minister tomorrow, and I saw him yesterday. That case is constantly on the agenda. So we are not too afraid to appeal to Turkey because of our broad interests. I want to say again that that is simply not true. We didn't fall back when Mrs. Geerdink got into trouble last year. We also addressed the Turkish ambassador when last year a large Turkish media group was silenced and I believe we were one of the few countries where the Turkish ambassador was also called upon to do so. Thanks to the Dutch lobby, much of the IPA budget has gone to the core of Turkish homework, to strengthen the rule of law and better protection of human rights. We also tried, as your Chamber knows, at the European Council of Foreign Ministers, even when we were isolated, to push IPA funds in the direction of press, freedom of the press and freedom of expression. We have also expressed our opinion on what happened to Mrs Umar. I too am really glad and relieved that she is back, even though we know that this matter has not yet been concluded, but it is important that we have done so because she has been under such pressure, including from many Turkish fellow citizens, and we are all concerned about that. That is why we have really taken those positions on the basis of conviction. In this case, too, we have said that freedom of the press and freedom of expression are fundamental and that we are not going to negotiate with them. I think the Prime Minister has already said what is necessary. In the direction of the SGP Group, I would add that consular protection applies to everyone. This case of course became public because it was also a public figure, a columnist, so directly linked to the freedom of expression we represent in the Netherlands. At the same time, let there be no misunderstanding about that. We are not suddenly going to come up with different rules for someone who is familiar. Consular protection applies to everyone, without distinction. This also means that the Dutch Government is involved in its consular work at any time, including in the case of foreign journalists who may be less well-known. Of course, we are defending the Dutch journalists first, but we are also defending the freedom of the press in general and I have already mentioned a number of points on which we are active. In this connection, Mr Sjoerdsma asked about legal assistance. We are not going to separate a profession, all Dutch people are entitled to consular assistance. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the Netherlands is pro-actively defending journalists who are arrested abroad by obstruction of the freedom of the press. Indeed, there is a downward trend worldwide, even in Turkey, with regard to freedom of expression and the role of journalists. This has also been discussed on several occasions in recent weeks, regardless of this case, on the occasion of the Day of Freedom of the Press. The Netherlands itself has also taken a number of initiatives, for example with regard to the Russian-speaking media. We raise individual issues at EU level and in bilateral talks. We also attend journalists' trials. That is also what we are doing in Turkey. The Dutch government has been criticised for this by Turkey. Nevertheless, we are present. We also provide financial support to organisations promoting freedom of the press and journalists in need, including through the Human Rights Fund. Such assistance to journalists may include the provision or financing of legal assistance. An example is the Digital Defenders Partnership that supports the Netherlands and enables online journalists who are in trouble to receive legal assistance. We offer journalists of Dutch nationality who go to prison abroad in addition to the usual consular assistance also other forms of assistance. This applies in particular to rules relating to the death penalty. In other cases, prisoners may therefore be subject to conditions of detention, persons already in prison may be eligible for legal advice supported by the Netherlands by an independent organisation. We've talked about the PrisonLAW Foundation before. With this set of measures and facilities, there is no need for additional financial support for legal assistance to journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u89	Not only journalists can get into trouble in Turkey when it comes to picking up for an expression of opinion. It can happen to other Dutch. Many Dutch people have been critical of Erdogan in the social media, and rightly so. They can be picked up in Turkey in the experience. Can the Minister guarantee their security in Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u90	First of all, I very much agree with you. That is why I said: let us not take out a separate group. It applies to everyone, to all Dutch. I have previously indicated, including in the media, that I cannot guarantee this. We've seen that, too. Otherwise, the whole Ebru Umar case would not have occurred at all. That became front-page news in Turkey, because people are very concerned that people are not travelling to Turkey because a Dutch minister cannot give guarantees. I cannot give it because insulting the President in Turkey is a criminal offence, as we know. If the insult is done publicly, that punishment can even be increased by a sixth. In that sense, I am not referring to the course of justice in Turkey. However, according to the Dutch interpretation of international law, legislation that makes it possible to prosecute a foreigner for an insult committed abroad is, for example, about twitters in the Netherlands; that is entirely of the crazy crazy crap is not lawful. Under international law, it is also not allowed to enforce this legislation through prosecution and arrest. If you ask me if I can give you a guarantee, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u91	If no guarantees can be given, is the Minister prepared to give a negative travel advice to Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u92	I don't think that's out of the question. Not a negative travel advice in general, because I believe that people should still be able to travel to Turkey for their magical reasons. It is true, however, that this case gives specific cause for people to assess the risks they are taking at this point. I can't guarantee that this won't happen. We are trying to avoid problems through Chapter 23 on freedom of the press and so on, but I cannot give guarantees. I'm gonna leave the action list out of time. The Netherlands is taking a large number of initiatives on freedom of the press. This is being seriously addressed, including through the reduction of IPA aid to Turkey. It is one of the lowest of the accession countries at the moment. I have also referred to a number of important elements relating to Mrs Piri's report on the subject. I come to a number of other issues relating to human rights. It has rightly been mentioned about the worrying case of Cumhuriyet journalists following an article on arms smuggling by the Turkish secret service to jihadist groups in Syria. At the moment, that case is on appeal. In that sense, of course, I cannot say much about that. It concerns a number of points relating to the publication of secret state documents for which prison sentences have been pronounced. There is no judgment yet on the membership of a terrorist organisation. Of course, we'll keep a close eye on that. We were also present at those trials. I just said something about that. With regard to benchmark 65 on visa liberalisation, I would like to say once again that Turkey will have to meet all the conditions. The Secretary of State said the same thing this morning. I also said it in the RAZ. That means that they also have to meet benchmark number 65. We are therefore waiting for the committee to reach its verdict in mid-June. Then we will inform the Chamber about the Dutch position on the matter. I come to the situation in south-east Turkey. Like other allies, the Netherlands has expressed its concerns about the situation. The Turkish Government, as well as the relevant Kurdish groups, must now lay down arms and resume the Kurdish peace process. That's not gonna happen at all. That's a bad thing. The risk of this is also that Syria's conflict could slowly expand towards Turkey. The European Union also has repeated talks with Turkey on this issue. In itself, the Turkish Government has the right to take action against terrorist threats, against ISIS, against the PKK. Of course, there is always the following element: proportionality, respect for people and international humanitarian law. Here too, the citizens are the most important again. They are now getting between two fires far too quickly: on the one hand the PKK, on the other hand the Turkish troops. That also shows how complicated that country, Turkey, is. Complicatedness does not mean that there is a lack of positioning or a lack of clear statements about what we think of those countries. I have discussed this with Mr Knops before. However, it is at the border with Syria. There is a huge problem of terror and terrorism. From there, yesterday, when it came to the international Support Group for Syria, the Netherlands spoke with Turkey precisely on this point. I fully understand that the Chamber wants me to support the call for access to independent research, as Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein, the UN Commissioner for Human Rights, has also requested. We have already asked for an independent investigation. We have also brought this to the attention of the Turkish authorities. It is good if a country gives access to independent researchers. We will continue to argue for that. I would also like to mention the role of the PKK itself and its youth branch, the YDG-H. We shouldn't forget that either. It's not as black and white as it may be sometimes brought forward. With the rise of that YDG, the struggle has moved from the countryside to the city. That's very risky. Trenches were made on a larger scale and explosives were placed. There are attacks on security personnel. That brings me back to the earlier story. The fate of the citizens must be at our heart. This means that these points, including the curfews which the Chamber has referred to and the questions raised by Mr Ten Broeke, which I have previously answered, are directly applicable to them. A request was made for the waiver of parliamentary immunity. I believe that is what Mr Van Bommel asked for. I can only say at the moment that I am aware that the committee has agreed to a draft amendment to the Constitution. There has not yet been a plenary vote in Parliament. I cannot speculate on this at the moment and I cannot interfere with it either, but I can see that what has happened so far places an extra mortgage on the already tense and terrible situation in the south-east. I would point out, however, that this is, of course, also a responsibility of Parliament in Turkey. I assume that Mr Van Bommel is also talking about this with his fellow party members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u93	We certainly do. Those concerns don't fall out of the sky. In the past, it has already been shown that the Turkish Government has to say that the Turkish authorities are using all kinds of existing laws to get parliamentarians convicted of political decisions. This concerns in particular HDP MEPs, then BDP MEPs, such as Leyla Zana. This new law abolishing immunity would make it much easier for this to happen. In the past, however, the Dutch Government has expressed its concern about this as a result of parliamentary questions on my part. I therefore do not understand the current reluctance of the Foreign Minister. The government then condemned the condemnation of parliamentarians on the basis of political statements. Can't the government just repeat that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u94	I do not see why Mr Van Bommel says that I am not expressing my concerns about this at the moment, because I have just said that this places a huge mortgage on the relationship within Turkey and, above all, with South-East Turkey and a number of Kurdish regions. I would just like to point out that there is no parliamentary decision yet. I can't anticipate the facts. That's why I'm saying this the way I'm saying it now. That has little to do with restraint. I come to the questions about visa liberalisation, even though not many new questions have been asked. I can only repeat what has been discussed in previous debates today. As I have just said, there is no question of negotiating with the rules or not raising certain issues because of a particular deal. This is also illustrated by the way in which we dealt with the Ebru case and, more generally, by the strong negotiations with other countries. That's the reality of today. Turkey is Turkey. We have been asked how you could raise that even more sharply. As is well known, the Netherlands also believes that the very chapters of the rule of law should be discussed. However, you should not go in a different direction with criteria and elements of agreements because of agreements we have with a country where it is located, where there is refugee problems and with which we are negotiating, where good progress is being made at the moment. I also discussed the matter of Doctors Without Borders and Human Rights Watch in general this morning. Of course we take these messages seriously. We have therefore asked the UNHCR, which has been given a greater role in Turkey, to ask about this. I believe that I have answered the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u95	We have indeed had the progress report on visa liberalisation. I happened to be in another room in a debate with Secretary of State Dijkhoff. So I couldn't be at that debate. I do have a question about the conclusions that the Commission is now drawing in the third progress report, namely that Turkey meets all 28 benchmarks in the area of migration and border management. However, we know that the rights of non-Syrians are not yet guaranteed in Turkey. How is that consistent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u96	Firstly, we need to distinguish between the benchmarks of visa liberalisation and the benchmarks directly related to the refugee deal. By the way, both have to comply with the standards we have put together. Let there be no difference of opinion on that. The visa liberalisation was specifically about benchmark number 65. That is the most sensitive one, and it has also been raised by the Chamber today. This benchmark also covers freedom of press and expression in the context of the fight against terrorism. There must therefore be a change, or at least an amendment, of the legislation in Turkey. That has not yet been done and we shall therefore look very closely at it. That is certainly important in view of what I have heard here today. This is specifically about legislation that concerns whether you could abuse what we have just talked about: freedom of the press in the light of the fight against terrorism. That's point one. The second concerns the agreements between Greece and Turkey on refugees. There is also, in part, another aspect to this, namely that it must work according to the agreements made in the international legal frameworks. This is not a completely different matter, but it is another element of the negotiations between Europe and Turkey on the refugee issue. I think it is also important on that point to underline that we are making enormous progress on human rights. For example, the number of deaths at sea is reduced and Turkey is caring for 2.6 million refugees. Here we can suck a little bit more, just to put it this way. As regards the issues related to the protection of Syrians and non-Syrians, I note that the number of people returned is still relatively limited precisely because everyone has to comply with all those rules. This should enable you to apply for individual asylum in Greece. Progress has also been made on the non-Syrians. I am very hopeful that that element of the deal will also work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u97	That is precisely where the difference lies with the European Commission. The European Commission is actually saying that Turkey meets the 28 benchmarks on migration and border management. If I call them off now, I can even see in the comments of this cabinet's progress report that Turkey does not yet meet the benchmarks, because it is not yet settled for non-Syrian refugees. It is a key element of the Refugee Convention that not only the Syrians are being picked out of it now, but also the Iraqis, Somalis and Afghans are entitled to care, health care, education, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u98	But the most important thing is that nothing happens there that is not in line with the international right of asylum. That's the point. Of course, we want the case even better. Mr Voordewind is aware of the debate in Turkey: when it comes to non-Syrians, it is not about direct protection or supervision of them, but about the risk for Turkey that this will have an attractive effect. This is now being monitored by the UNHCR. We are pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u99	If I am correct, the Foreign Minister has not yet answered my question about the possibility of abandoning dual nationality. I see this somewhat in the light of the discussion I had with the Prime Minister about the fact that a number of Turkish Dutch people feel hindered by their dual nationality and that that long arm that is so often spoken of affects them. My question was whether it is possible to urge the Turks to make it easier for those who want to renounce Turkish nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u100	That question has indeed to do with the procedures for giving up your nationality. This is basically something of the Turkish Government and of the Turkish legislation in this area. It's not impossible to do that. I do not believe that people would not want to do this because of the severity of the procedures. I haven't heard that element so far. As far as we can facilitate it or make it easier, we are happy to do so, but the core is that people have to make that choice themselves. Then the Turkish Government takes a whole series of decisions twice a year, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u101	That is absolutely true: it is an individual choice. The point is that people who are currently prevented from saying what they think because the Turkish President then says that as long as they have that nationality, he has something to say about it, he can renounce Turkish nationality. Those people are running into trouble right now. In this context, I would like to mention, for example, the right of inheritance and Turkish military service for Turkish men. Those are some of those elements that make it more difficult to really complete that choice. Do I understand correctly that the Foreign Minister says: I am going to look at what I can do to make this easier and to make it possible to discuss it with the Turkish authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u102	It's not so much "making discussion." Turkey is about its own nationality legislation. I really can't help it, whether we like Turkey or not. Turkey is about its own nationality legislation. Any Turkish with a dual nationality can, as you know, apply to renounce Turkish nationality. As Mr Knops is well aware, there are two complex elements: there must be no criminal proceedings and the person concerned must not be on duty. The Turkish Council of Ministers then decides every few months on the applications submitted. I can't change those procedures; I'm not about that. I can make anything talkable. I'd also like to help and facilitate those people if they want, but I can't do more than that. I can't say you have to change the law. It really is Turkish nationality law. Nor would we accept that in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u103	The reason I'm asking you this is the following. It has an impact on the problem in the Netherlands itself, as we have just discussed: people feel hindered, do not feel free. Double nationality may be the cause of this in a number of cases. In that sense, there is also a Dutch interest in making this negotiable, in order to bring it before the Turkish authorities. Then we can see if they at least do not create formal obstacles, i.e. whether they make it easier to do so. That was my question. Of course, it is Turkish responsibility - we are not talking about it - but is the Minister prepared to put this point down to his colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u104	I think that has happened in the past. I'm very willing to do that again. However, I say in all honesty that I do not expect that to change very much, because Turkey will say: this is our national legislation. I am prepared to do anything, particularly in the light of what the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Affairs have said: we do not want people to feel constrained in some way. Our country is a country of active tolerance. In part, it has nothing to do with double nationality, but to a large extent it has nothing to do with double nationality. As far as this is concerned, I will comply with what Mr Knops is asking. However, I cannot change Turkish legislation on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u106	I thought that would have answered the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u107	That's what I thought. Thank you. I'm looking at the MPs to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. I must say that the feeling of threat remains: threat from Turkey to Dutch Turks, or Dutch people of Turkish origin, but also to Dutch media, who suddenly receive letters. I therefore ask the cabinet to be on top of it and to continue to appeal to Turkey that it should not make such threats to the Dutch. The Prime Minister also mentioned isolation. I'm having trouble with that anyway. I see an accumulation of problems and of insults by Dutch people. I wonder how much further it has to go. What should Turkey do if we want to re-establish relations with Turkey? Let me give you an example. UNHCR has been asked to monitor. I thank the Cabinet for that, by the way. If it shows that people are being sent back to Syria after all, is that a show-stopper? I'm sorry to use this word; I don't think there's another word for the continuation of the Turkey deal? I ask for a serious answer from the cabinet. I am tabling two motions because I was not entirely convinced by the answers of the cabinet. One is about delivering Mrs. Umar. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a criminal case in Turkey against a Dutch columnist;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has an extradition treaty with Turkey;]] [[calls on the government not to cooperate in the possible extradition of a Dutch columnist to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u109	Because there were still uncertainties, including in the progress report, about the acceleration...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u110	Just read it out, because you are way past your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u111	...on visa liberalisation, I come to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission has already submitted a legislative proposal on visa liberalisation for Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the entry into force of visa liberalisation Turkey before it meets all 72 benchmarks, including compliance with all obligations laid down in the UN Refugee Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u112	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both members of the cabinet for the answers. Like the previous speaker, I am left with an uncomfortable feeling, where I feel that Erdogan has too much influence in the Netherlands and the European Union and is given too much space to take away people's freedom through intimidation. I heard the sum of Mr Ten Broeke's sum and I actually found it to be cutting wood. Then I looked at the Prime Minister and I did not actually hear very clearly that an investigation would take place. I think it would be good, also in view of the events in other European countries, not only in the Netherlands, to include this with fellow prime ministers in other European countries. How do we deal with Erdogan's long arm? Unfortunately, the freedom of the press is getting worse. At the same time, the Minister is not prepared to set up an emergency fund for journalists in distress. There are cases where that has been necessary. The NVJ and Free Press Unlimited think it's important. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas freedom of the press is a major asset;]] [[whereas Dutch journalists are regularly prosecuted for their work abroad;]] [[Whereas journalists are often entangled in legal procedures where due to a lack of financial resources they lack good legal assistance;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a support fund for journalists in need of financial assistance for legal procedures abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mr. Chairman. For Ebru Umar things have turned out well, but of course it is a dime on its side and that dime has not yet fallen in the right direction. Moreover, the Prime Minister has explained to us that there are not so many legal opportunities to extradite her from the Netherlands, but if Mrs Umar is staying in a third country where those legal restrictions that we apparently have do not apply, she could be extradited from there. So she's not safe yet. More importantly, what has the Prime Minister actually learned from this affair? 'Cause tomorrow could just happen again. And the day after tomorrow and the day after and so on. I am referring to such things as demanding billions of dollars, demanding visa freedom, demanding accelerated entry into the European Union, threatening to open the locks for lucky seekers if you do not get what you want and calling for an atmosphere of threat to anyone who would like to make a critical note about Turkey and Erdogan and his party. I'm not gonna use the "a" word today, but that's all monkey stuff, isn't it? What did the Prime Minister learn from that Islamofacist in Ankara?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government for the answer. It has become clear that in foreign policy there is still quiet diplomacy and that it is very badly tolerated with an excess of stark testimonial politics and screaming. Whether it is a left-handed finger or the middle finger of the PVV, in both cases they go back in the ears when abroad talks and then it becomes quite difficult. Mr Sjoerdsma just said that he likes the investigation. That's interesting. Last year, on 2 July, a motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and my colleague, Mr Sjoerd Potters, in which the government was instructed to carry out a follow-up study on Turkish organisations and currents in the Netherlands, with particular reference to the management of the financial flows of these organisations and the danger of the emergence of a parallel society. In fact, we are talking about that long arm that we have talked about today. We are still waiting for the results of that follow-up investigation. The government didn't care about the investigation. That is why I am asking, partly on behalf of Mrs Karabulut, where is this investigation going? I think that this debate has shown one thing. If we do not see the incidents as stand-alone, we would like to know what the Dutch Government has found. I might add that at that time the research was requested by the Christian Union, the SGP, the SP, the VVD and the PVV. Unfortunately not because of the CDA, D66, GroenLinks and the PvdA, but perhaps these parties think differently after this debate. That criticism, ridicule and even insults within freedom of expression can be contradicted, refuted or resisted is, in my opinion, the crux of an open and resilient society. Freedom of expression cannot tolerate intimidation, anonymity and culture. Tolerance itself is the first victim if we abandon those for intolerance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u116	Yes, but when it comes to freedom of speech, it can...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u117	No, you do it all the time. I give the floor to Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u118	Mr. Chairman. I have three points. In the first term, I congratulated the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. That has also been noticed outside this room. "Unrecognized" it was called. We must also have the courage to look at it from the other side. The image should not now arise that you get preferential treatment if you are a well-known Dutchman. That's what needs to be said. Otherwise, I will be getting calls from a lot of people from abroad asking me when they will be called by the Prime Minister. I'm gonna have to disappoint those people, I'm afraid. This was an exceptional situation. I think it is necessary for us to warn Dutch people who travel to Turkey about this development. It has been a development for the last year and a half. The number of 2,000 is from the last year and a half under President Erdogan. That law always existed, but now charges are being filed. I am surprised that the travel advice for Turkey on the Foreign Affairs website does mention an increased risk from pickpocketing in Istanbul and that the warning is given that the jeweler should not be put under pressure to buy anything. I think that this is a much greater danger for Dutch people, because certainly the Dutch of Turkish origin may well have a view on the President or the policy pursued by Turkey. My appeal to the Foreign Minister is therefore to put a few sentences on the website on this too. As far as I am concerned, the travel advice is very extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you very much, Mr Van Bommel. I call Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u120	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Ebru Umar is not extradited to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the cabinet cannot guarantee that Dutch people who have spoken critically about the Turkish president, for example on social media, will not be arrested and prosecuted if they go on holiday to Turkey, for example;]] [[calls on the government to put in place a negative travel advice for the whole of Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-65]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr Bontes, Mr Van der Staaij has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u122	This is a more practical question. We already had a Voordewind motion about not handing it over. What is the added value of this new motion on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u123	I ask for guarantees in my motion. Mr Voordewind is asking not to cooperate. Guarantees really go a little further than not cooperating. So the motion goes one step further. That's why I filed this motion. I thank Mr Van der Staaij for this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two rulers for their clear answer. The rulers have indicated that the conditions for liberalisation and for Turkey's EU membership stand right. Surrendering to principles such as freedom of the press or freedom of expression cannot be the issue. A motion by GroenLinks and D66 has already been adopted on this subject. I was happy with what the Prime Minister said about the click line. He has confirmed that it is now out of the sky. He also said that immediate action would be taken if something like this were to happen again, because this is unacceptable. One point, as far as I am concerned, has come out a little less clearly, and that was about the long arm, but above all about its comprehensibility. It is one thing to talk about the long arm, but it is another thing to talk about its comprehensibility for part of the Turkish Dutch. I would like to have another reaction from the rulers. What does the Cabinet intend to do about it? That was the first-term question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the clear answer and the comment this time. For a change, I would say to Mr Ten Broeke that, if you look at this case, you might think it is an incident. The Prime Minister himself listed a number of incidents. Mr Ten Broeke did the same. If you let them all work on you, you'll see that there's a really serious problem. That is why the question is: when are we going to have another problem here? Let's hope not. Let us hope that the signals that the cabinet says it has given to Turkey will indeed help. But, Mr President, allow me to say that I have doubts as to whether this will actually be the case. I asked the cabinet in the first place whether it is willing to look closely and continue to look at the dome associations that are part of the long arm. Mrs. Voortman asked about that, too. Minister Asscher has spoken clearly about this in the past. I think it is important that we continue to monitor this closely, particularly in view of the comments made in this debate. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his commitment to make the issue of abandoning dual nationality negotiable. I would point out, however, that, according to the procedure, this still has to be done through the Turkish consulate in Amsterdam, the same consulate about which there was a rumor that there was a click line there. I ask the cabinet to keep an eye on this and at least to ensure that there are no obstacles in the Netherlands, on Dutch territory, for people who want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u126	I would like to end this debate in cuckoo one singing with the CDA, but then we must also be honest. Mr Knops says he wants to examine the Turkish umbrella organisations, but last year the CDA voted against the Karabulut/Potters motion. Then tell us here today that this should have been different and support our call for that research and the impact of that research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u127	I would very much like to do this, but I do not know the text of that motion. I would like to say to Mr Ten Broeke that I am going to look at it. I'm worried about the influence. I have already indicated this in the debate in the first term. So if I like that text, I will certainly discuss it with my colleague and we will act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u128	Mr. Chairman. We are having a debate on the arrest of a Dutch columnist, but also on freedom of expression and freedom of the press in Turkey and in the Netherlands, for the Turkish-Dutch community, and on the tensions that this has caused for the Turkish-Dutch community. Mr Knops referred to an entrepreneur. This reminds me of an article in Zaman of 28 April, in which a number of entrepreneurs are anonymously quoted who also experience this kind of intimidation and practice. I've spoken to some of those people. They find it very difficult to get out. The question is how they can seek support from the Dutch government when they feel that they are intimidated and limited in their economic activities. It is good that the Dutch Government supports the independent investigation in south-east Turkey by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. I'm just wondering what the timetable is for that. Are steps now being taken by the UN towards Turkey? Finally, I would like to reiterate that, like most of my fellow Members here, I am not a fan of the Turkish Government, but that there are a lot of Turks living in Turkey who do want to move forward and that we should discuss chapters 23 and 24 on democratisation and freedom of the press in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u129	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u130	Madam President. The fact that freedom of expression is a great asset, but it also has its limitations, is again apparent from the speaking time we have in this second term. I have no problem with that because of the clear answer given by the rulers, for which I would like to thank them. The most important point that lingers on me is the displeasure about Erdogan's long arm and how far it goes exactly. I welcome the fact that my colleague, Mr Ten Broeke, referred to the motion on this matter which has already been adopted in the Chamber. We would like to hear how this is being implemented, so that we can get the best possible picture of the scale in which the acceptable influence passes into inappropriate interference or into unacceptable intimidation. It's good to have those facts in the picture. Finally, I would like to mention the issue of extradition. We've been asked if the government will cooperate. The answer is that this is entirely up to the judge. I wonder if governance does not have its own responsibility in this. I refer to parliamentary questions from August 2013, on which the Minister of Security and Justice said in the context of extradition to Turkey: extradition has been declared admissible by the judge and allowed by me. Apparently there is also an active interference on the part of the cabinet itself. I would like to have another comment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u131	Then we arrived at the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u132	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to address a number of questions that have still been asked. Mr Ten Broeke asked when we could expect the follow-up study and what it would look like. I can say that in recent years research has been carried out both by the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre, the WODC, and by Sunier and Landman, which, as we know, aimed to gain insight into financial flows, control and foreign influence. It has proved reluctant to gain more insight on the basis of research. It is also difficult to investigate this. Preparations have been initiated to respond to the request of the Chamber in a motion of 2 July 2015. The research assignment for this has also been deported. On the basis of practical research, the aim of this mission is to gain insight into the extent and nature of the foreign direction of the Turkish religious organisations in the Netherlands and their influence on the integration process of their supporters. This should increase the transparency of these organisations and movements. The result is a research report which will be presented to the Chamber, accompanied by a written response from the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. This involves practical research, not only literature research, but also interviews and hearing and hearing from organisations, all focused on the Dutch situation. Mrs Maij asked about the issue of entrepreneurs who feel threatened. Where can they go? I can report that we are talking to all parties. The signals about intimidation and threats, including those specific to entrepreneurs, are known. Mr Voordewind also referred to this in the first term. Minister Asscher of Social Affairs has consulted with the organisations and key figures to get a clear picture of these signals. We see that different groups are treated in a way that we do not tolerate in the Netherlands. These include supporters of the Gülen movement and Armenians, but also Kurds in the Netherlands. In the short term, consultations will be organised to further strengthen the government's approach. May I take this opportunity again to call upon the key figures from the Turkish community to show leadership? I think I have answered Mrs Voortman's question with the answer to these two questions. I'm coming to the motions now. I will deal with two myself and the Minister three. I'll go into the motions on pieces Nos. 62 and 65, which are interspersed. I would like to ask the author for the motion in part No. Sixty-two to be held. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. I told you, there's no charge yet. There is no proposal for expulsion on the basis of this issue. I have pointed out the measure of punishment and that in the Netherlands there is actually no legal framework which makes that possible, but ultimately that lies with the Dutch court. Mr Van der Staaij was right in the end of his speech in the second term that the Dutch Minister for Security and Justice may also have the power to take a negative decision in our view, which I think would be negative to find something from the judge. But that's very much claused and regulated. He cannot, therefore, simply ignore a legal ruling, a legal ruling. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. That is why we are asking for a guarantee that I cannot give because of the best traditions of the trias politician. Again, such an expulsion seems completely inconceivable on the basis of all the facts that lie ahead, but ultimately it is up to the court to decide. And yes, the Minister for Security and Justice still has the opportunity in particular to find something about it, but it is not so broad that I can give an absolute guarantee on that. I propose that the Foreign Minister respond to motions 63, 64 and 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u133	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion on part number one. 63 by Mr Voordewind. I think that some qualification of that motion is important. I see her as a support for policy, because Turkey also has to meet all 72 benchmarks set for the Dutch government. That must be the clear interpretation of that motion. We have just had a debate on exactly what this means when it comes to the position of the non-Syrians. I said earlier, and I would like to underline this, that Turkey has taken additional steps to further improve the position of Syrian and non-Syrian refugees in Turkey, including by opening up the Turkish labour market. If I read the motion correctly, all 72 benchmarks, including the visa liberalisation benchmark, must be met. This concerns benchmark 24 on non-Syrians. If I can read the motion in such a way that it has to be complied with, then I see the motion as supporting policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u134	The Minister can read my motion in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u135	Thank you, then, I will stick to the judgment I have just given. The motion in part No. 64 I would like to discourage for two reasons. In the first term, I have already said that there are many possibilities for journalists, perhaps more than for any other profession. I'm not in favour of preferential treatment for one particular group. Of course, journalists have big problems, but there are all kinds of opportunities to serve them. I do not think it would be wise to get one group out of it now and specifically to pay extra money for it. Then the motion to part No. 66 by Mr Bontes. I'd like to advise against that, too. The travel advice is constantly being reviewed, as I say in response to Mr Van Bommel. I continue to focus on the point he has raised, but I would not like to say that Henk and Ingrid or Jan and Willemien or Kees and Klaas are suddenly unable to go on vacation to Turkey. I don't think that's right. I would really like to discourage the motion, because we are saying to all Dutch people that they can no longer go to Turkey. I know a lot of people go on vacation to Turkey. I have said that I cannot give guarantees, and that has also been put forward in the media, but I do not think it is right to say that no one can go on holiday to Turkey. I don't think that's a good approach. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u136	That is a voting advice that I fully understand and will follow, but an adaptation of the travel advice on the Foreign Affairs website with a few rules on the issues that we have identified here today and which may apply to many more people seems to me to be worthwhile. There is very detailed talk about everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u137	It's not a yes or a no. I really want to take a serious look at it. A travel advice has to do with a lot of different circumstances. We are now at a stage where no one has been convicted. I say again today that people must be careful, given what has happened in this case. I want to take a serious look at the travel advice, but I cannot immediately indicate a moment or a text where and how that will happen. That brings me to the end of the answer to the questions and the assessment of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u138	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-7.u139	We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
