ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the initiator, Mrs Lodders, and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the First Chamber. I would remind the Chamber that the plenary debate on the bill took place on 24 May 2016. During that debate, two motions were tabled, namely the Van Rooijen and others motion. on the achievement of variable benefits for members of voluntary pension schemes with pension funds without obstructing the effect of the requirement of an employer's contribution (34255, letter J) and the motion-Rinnooy Kan c.s. on the one-off award of an unlimited shopping right to beneficiaries who opt for a variable follow-up to their retirement date (34255, letter K). By letters dated 30 May 2016 (34255, letter L) and 10 June 2016, (34255, letter M) the State Secretary for Social Affairs and Employment provided the Chamber with additional information on the drafting of the bill. On 31 May 2016, the First Chamber decided to withdraw the votes scheduled for that day on the bill and the motions of the plenary agenda and to reopen the plenary session on 14 June 2016, today, for a third term, including votes. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with a sincere thanks to the Secretary of State for last Friday's letter of reply. Mrs Lodders, your original proposal was clear and simple, so there were few questions about it. On 24 May, on behalf of the CDA Group, I made comments on the mandatory use of the lifecycle as a way of implementing the "practical person" principle. A novelty, which can also be bad for the generation that has been included for years with the standard investment option of the fund. The Secretary of State writes in her letter that the lifecycle approach is the most logical way of not exposing older participants to too much downside investment risk prior to retirement age. The Secretary of State also notes that there are alternatives. That's nice. However, the draft decision leaves too little room for this. The Secretary of State therefore undertakes to give room in the draft decision in order to implement the principle in a different way. However, there is a large "mits." This can only be done if it is sufficiently substantiated that it adequately mitigates the downward risk for the pension date, without prejudice to the other members. Then that will also have to be checked by the Dutch Bank. I wonder if the Secretary of State isn't offering a dead sparrow. It simply means that funds are no longer allowed to invest according to the current standard. What's the Secretary of State's letter gonna solve now? My second point concerns the transition problem for older participants in particular. In writing, but also in my first and second term, I asked for figures to indicate the effects for older participants who have always been invested in a uniform policy and for whom suddenly need to be switched to "lifecycle" I will no longer use the word "lifecycle" the personal approach to reducing investment risk. How do you solve that? The Secretary of State has an investigation conducted into the adverse effects. That will be ready by the end of this year. The Secretary of State then considers, if the investigation shows that there are negative effects, to adjust the transitional law. In the meantime, it already has to postpone until 2018. I come to my third point. The Secretary of State also intends to defer pension administrators who are already offering a variable pension until 2018. It does so because the effect on the pension of slightly more investment risk over a short period of time is modest. She writes that herself. This means that until 1 January 2018, participants will be exempt from asking for their preference to base the investment risk on it. My fourth point concerns the interesting comments on the job definition between insurers and pension funds. The Secretary of State wants to keep that under review, but it takes time. How much time does the Secretary of State estimate take? Without amendment, that means that participants who do not come to an insurer or an employer who are at least 10% of the sum but who are simply members of a pension fund with a premium scheme cannot benefit from the pleasures the Secretary of State sees for the rest. For this group there is thus a reverse, negative, competition and thus an almost forced shopping by those who are allowed to. The Secretary of State's commitment on this point is not strong enough for the CDA Group. We'll tell the Secretary of State. In particular, I would like to interpret her in such a way that she intends to come forward with a concrete proposal this autumn so that the previously announced law on sweeping can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u3	I would like to ask Mrs Oomen about that last point. The whole question of job definition and its repercussions for all those who want to convert a net pension into a variable scheme is also my concern. We all know that that's complicated, just because you don't want to touch that job definition. I therefore believe that I am speaking on behalf of Mrs Oomen. Quite recently, a suggestion has been made by the Association of Insurers about a possible solution to that problem. This means that the net pension could simply be built up within the pension fund and could eventually be included in a variable follow-up at the starting date of the pension. If that is true, it seems to me to be a very elegant solution and this discussion would be superfluous. Can Mrs Oomen assess whether this is indeed a solution to the problem she has rightly identified?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u4	This variable follow-up will not take place in the pension fund, but will take place in the context of forced shopping with that insurer or with the person who is allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u5	At least that's not what I read.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u6	I'll read it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u7	I'd almost say I'd like to read it to her. It's not unimportant. If, along this route, so within a pension fund, a variable follow-up to a net pension can be constructed perfectly legitimate and within the existing rules, we will save ourselves a lot of effort. However, Mrs Oomen insists that I read it wrong. I'll leave it at that, but I'll come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u8	I'd love to. I read it like this. Those who have accumulated a net pension benefit with a pension fund and therefore are allowed to shop once if he chooses a variable pension fund that is agreed on does not have the same pleasures as those who sit with an insurer or with another pension fund, where 10% is paid in. That's where the problem is. It'll have to switch to another fund. Where was I? The Secretary of State has re-appointed an investigation. That's not hard enough. We just want her to take care of it. That's how I'd like to interpret her. During the examination, the Secretary of State promised colleague Rinnooy Kan to investigate whether shopping law would also be possible for members of a fund who do not have a variable but a fixed pension. We're not for that. What does that mean if the Secretary of State now adds in her letter that she is going to investigate, but that she wishes to distinguish between contracts with and without collective risk sharing? That's how I see it. But does that mean that she is going to spend money on a new investigation, which she has always promised a great deal of goodwill, which can actually be saved? Or am I wrong about that? In this debate we discussed communication with participants. In this terribly difficult bill, that is very important. The Secretary of State is also going to do research on this. Then I'll come to the projection rate. Let me say first of all that the CDA Group also sees it as necessary for the various providers to apply one and the same interest rate. But which one would that be? In the first and second periods there was an intensive exchange of views on this subject. At the end of last week, Syntrus also got involved in this discussion and took the stand against risk-free interest rates. Risk-free interest does not fit in with the improved premium agreement where the risks lie with the participant and the benefits are therefore variable. Risk-free interest rates are used to value guarantees and there are no guarantees. So the question is whether a risk-free interest rate should be used as a projection rate. That seems logical to me, because in its recent opinion in variant 4C and variant 1B, the ESC also assumes the macro-stable discount rate, because it would also make benefits more stable. I do not think it is appropriate to discuss this matter again. I have a proposition. The Secretary of State will have Netspar do another study on the generational effects. Would it not then be wise, before deciding on what interest should preferably be prescribed, to wait for Netspar's report, to inform the Senate, including the First Chamber, and only then to decide on what type of unambiguous projection interest rate to be used? I'm at my eighth point. Of course, the implementation of the choice of a variable pension depends on a price tag, because there is a need to invest. So investing costs money. It is not clear what these costs are and how they are reversed. My colleague Pieter Omtzigt, from the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has talked a lot about this. It is necessary to communicate transparently what the costs are, how high they are and when they are applied. That's what the Secretary of State says. I now want the Secretary of State to promise that the bill for investing in that variable pension will not be deposited with the participants. In concrete terms, I do not want the lump sum to be charged with the additional investment costs. My ninth point is this. In the previous plenary session, I wondered why we are doing this. Who's gonna be okay? Who will choose this, given the great complexity, but also the uncertainties inherent in investing? Who can afford to opt for a low fixed benefit with a variable top which will be reduced over time but offer an equal or higher level of pension through potential investment gains? That question continues to concern us. The discussions with the sector, conducted by Mrs Lodders and the Secretary of State, and the further proposals do not relate to the legislative proposal as such, as the Secretary of State says. However, they do have consequences, as they will be incorporated into the further report on the forthcoming act implementing the law. I wonder if we have anything to say about that. We've already passed the law. I would like to be given the assurance that the First Chamber will be able to look at the amended AMvB and give its approval before the final decision is taken. I'm very serious. I really wonder if it's not better to wait for this law to come into force or to vote on it until everything is mapped out. So I'm asking for a delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. I intend to keep it short in this third period, and I will try to keep to that intention. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the letter she sent in connection with the consultations with the field and the points raised here in the first two deadlines. I fully understand that the proposals contained in the letter to extend the scope for transitional rights and to give more scope to providers to mitigate investment risks other than the lifecycle instrument alone are not part of this law. At the same time, the way it takes shape will have a major impact on the way the law is going to work. I do not think it is very appropriate for the First Chamber to comment on an AMvB, but I agree with Mrs Oomen's request that I should like to see whether we can see how the law will work in due course. In itself, we are not unhappy with the possibilities for enlargement and for a little more transitional law. We do have one but it does not become more transparent for the participants. We have already said it in the previous discussion of this bill and I was going to say it again today, and we just happened to be talking about it in the tearoom. The fact that the complexity is only getting bigger is building up. We ask participants to have an insight into the choices they make, but the question is whether transparency is increasing. I am not going to ask for new commitments, because Mrs Lodders and the Secretary of State have already met me in the first two deadlines, including with regard to the evaluation. However, I would like to emphasise the point once again. The structure we are building is not going to be any easier. We hang a quantity of fruit on the trees, of which we do not know when it will be ripe, overgrown or never ripe at all. Our request for transparency will be permanent. In the evaluation, we will look critically at whether it will work out in the way we thought it would.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. Since the plenary debate in this Chamber on Tuesday 24 May. on the Own-initiative Bill Act Improved Premium Scheme of the VVD-Second MP Lodders, Secretary of State Klijnsma, with her letters of Monday 30 May and Friday 10 June 2016, in the opinion of the VVD Group, has proposed important and substantial clarifications for the application of the General Measure of Governance which it intends to introduce on the occasion of the entry into force of this bill. For the VVD Group, the desirability of introducing the Lodders initiative proposal has not been discussed. The members of the VVD Group consider Mrs Lodders' improved premium scheme Act to be an innovative variant of the existing supplementary pension scheme based on the contribution agreement and the capital agreement. Around 1 million people with a premium or capital agreement are affected by this initiative legislative proposal. In a bird's eye, the clarifications, improvements and commitments made by the Secretary of State concern in particular the additional information obligations, the lifecycle principle, the possibility of deferred fixed pension benefits, the scope of shop law, and the job demarcation between pension funds and insurers, as well as the transitional right. Between 24 May and its last letter of 10 June, the State Secretary held talks with representatives of relevant organisations and institutions. The VVD Group considers that the proposals of the State Secretary create flexibility for a successful start to the Improved Premium Scheme Act. The members of the VVD Group still have a few questions. The first question put by the members of the VVD Group to the State Secretary concerns the right of the participant to choose the comprehensive information requirement for receiving a variable pension. Let me explain this to you. A pension participant may opt for a variable pension allowance. Prior to the choice of a variable pension benefit, the pension administrator using multiple risk profiles for a variable benefit should obtain comprehensive information from the participant on the financial position, knowledge, experience, objectives and risk readiness of the participant to determine his or her risk profile. According to the legislative proposal, pension administrators should really know their participant and be aware of his or her financial situation in view of the risks of variable pension benefits. A far-reaching obligation to obtain information about the participant is therefore imposed on the pensioners. The initiator has indicated that the duty of care of the pension provider is strengthened. In this context, a consultative obligation on the part of the pension administrator has been mentioned earlier. This disclosure obligation will be meaningful to the participant. The disclosure obligation shall require a participant to disclose its overall capital position at the pension date. This includes family income or family income. partner income, assets, mortgage, savings, investments and individual supplementary pensions. The participant is also expected to explain his or her future financial goals and to ask him or her about his or her knowledge and experience with financial products. No later than the pension date, a participant must make the complex choice for the purchase of a fixed or variable pension benefit. The purchase of the pension benefit does not have to be at the pension date in all cases with the own pension administrator where the participant has accumulated the pension capital. The participant may have the right to purchase the pension benefit from a pension executive of his choice in order to obtain the best periodic pension allowance in the market. That's the so-called shopping right. A pension administrator may, in accordance with the explanatory notes to the initiative proposal, view the acquisition of the comprehensive information from the participant as a form of advisory duty. In applying Article 52a (5) of the initiative proposal, the advisory rules of the Financial Supervision Act, namely Article 4:23, apply. The VVD Group believes that the participant should have a right of choice. It should be ensured that the self-employed pension administrator does not see for himself a guiding advisory obligation for the participant who wants to opt for a variable pension. On the contrary, a participant should have the freedom to share confidential and personal information about its overall capital position with a pension insurer or pension insurance company prior to the purchase of a variable pension. financial service provider of your choice. This financial service provider must, of course, comply with the requirements of the Financial Supervision Act. The participant's choice is the person who can request the aforementioned mandatory information from the participant and then base the risk profile on it. In short, the members of the VVD Group ask the Secretary of State what guarantees exist that a participant has the right at the pension date to choose with which party he or she wants to share the mandatory information prior to the choice of a variable pension. The VVD Group has a second question on the allocation of costs. In my group's view, the legislative proposal for an improved contribution scheme is not yet fully clear on the cost allocation of a variable pension. The Second Chamber unanimously adopted a motion stating that the pension administrator should ensure transparency of all costs charged to the participants in connection with the variable pension. During the plenary debate on 24 May last, the question was asked as to how the motion was to be complied with. A pension administrator is also required to publish the costs of asset management and transaction costs affecting the pension claim on a website accessible to participants. This should be done by 1 July 2017 at the latest. It applies to the costs of fixed and variable pension schemes. This Chamber also asked whether the costs of offering a variable pension benefit could also be allocated to members who opt for a flat-rate benefit. This appears to be the case. Pensioners may decide how to pass the costs on to the participants: only to the participants with a variable benefit, or to all participants. The members of the VVD Group ask the Secretary of State if the additional costs for a variable pension can be identified and allocated to the members who opt for the variable pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u11	Madam President. I am speaking on behalf of the Independent Senate Group. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the letter last Friday, following the previous debate. Once again, I would like to pay tribute to Mrs Lodder for her logical and simple initiative proposal at the time. The so-called risk-free interest rate is not stable and therefore not risk-free, I said in the debate three weeks ago. It is good to see that our opinion is now also shared in the Lower House and by the Secretary of State. In the Second Chamber at the AO on 8 June, Mrs Vermeij mentioned the painful influence of interest rates under the new financial rules of the new ftk. She said that those rules should have contributed to a reduction in interest rate sensitivity. The Secretary of State acknowledged that the ftk did not bring the stability envisaged. It has promised the committee that an investigation will be carried out into the interest rate sensitivity of pension systems in European countries. However, it reduced expectations by pointing out that these systems differ widely. It added that discounts could be spread over ten years thanks to the ftk. I would point out that these reductions are themselves a direct consequence of the instability of risk-free interest rates. I still have no answer to my question about the view of the Labour Foundation and the Pension Federation. In the letter of 1 April, they stated that this type of pension contract does not include a commitment to a pension and clearly points out the risks involved. The calculation of a risk-free projection efficiency is therefore at odds. We insist that the answer be given to our question on this concept of the whole field. This is not a benefit agreement, it is a contribution agreement. Can Mrs Lodder explain why no other political choice has been made and what was the consideration of the advantages and disadvantages of both interest rates? For our group, this is the most fundamental point, because the whole defence of the proposal is based on the Van Weyenberg and Others amendment that has been accepted. This removed the principle of the initiative design with the expected return. Mrs Oomen has already spoken about this. According to the proposers, the ex ante redistribution weighed heavily. However, it is now recognised that the size is unknown. At our request, this will be investigated by Netspar. Why wouldn't we wait for that? The risk-free interest rate made a political choice for the lowest interest rate and thus for the lowest benefit and also unstable benefit. We have argued in favour of expected return. It is noteworthy, then, that the Secretary of State refuses to introduce the volatility of risk-free interest rates into the Netspar investigation, as we requested. Indeed, it has recognised the volatility of this interest rate and has even undertaken a study of the interest sensitivity of pension systems across Europe, including the Netherlands. We have asked twice that the choice of projection rate should not be anchored by law, but should be left to pension fund management. Should it not be feasible outside the law, the board should have the choice between two options: risk-free return and expected return. I added a third variant to that. Indeed, I have proposed that the projection interest rate at AMvB be regulated. I am going to use the word 'lifecycle' again, as Mrs Oomen-Ruijten is also being dealt with by AMvB. The applicants' reply was the last time, in short, that it provides the undesirable incentive to take as much investment risk as possible. This does not fit in with the principle that the pension must be lifelong. This raises the following fundamental question. Does the government not have confidence in the performance of the functions of the administrations, which have the legal task of achieving a balanced balance of interests? Isn't there patronage or paternalism here? It is of two and one: the boards have their own legal responsibility, or are merely implementing the legal straitjacket of the Pension Act, the ftk and the UFR. In this context, it is a matter of urgency for the Secretary of State to defend the muffled premium by saying that the fixing of contributions is a responsibility of the social partners. She did so last week on 8 June in the Lower House. What she did not mention is that the legislator itself included in the law the possibility of the muffled premium. That is against the will of the Dutch Bank, which is quite special, and the retirement domes. I pointed out in the previous debate that this would result in more than 10 billion underpaid per year and 71.8 billion over the period 2015-2021. Those aren't figures from me or us, they're figures from the Ministry itself. They date from October 2015. I also quoted Professor Bovenberg, who says that the workers are now heavily subsidised by pensioners because of the reduced premium. De Telegraaf of 4 June 2016 headlined the interview with the professors Van Prague and Bovenberg: Elder pays retirement youth. Will the Secretary of State finally respond to Bovenberg's statement and not say that this is a completely different subject that is outside, as she did in writing? I think everything is always connected to everything. Two sizes shall be measured when calculating the muffled premium and the liabilities. For liabilities, the low risk-free interest rate of almost zero is taken into account, and I would point out that the German ten-year interest rate has fallen below zero today and for the reduced premium with the expected return of 5%. That is inconsistent and legally highly questionable. The cost-covering premium should also be based on the RTS, but then the premiums will go up equal to the liabilities. Whether the opposite should be done: the expected return on premiums, but also on liabilities. Moreover, the reduced premium, which is not actually cost-covering, is referred to in the law as a cost-covering premium. We had strongly asked whether the risk-free projection rate and declining benefit, now referred to as nominally stable benefit, would allow for an enforceable, comprehensible and communicatable scheme. That cardinal question hasn't been answered. It is very important that there is a clear communication with the participant about the falling benefit, as it may be a permanent decline. We are very concerned about this and ask the Secretary of State to make a firm commitment to the clear communication of this. A falling benefit: how can we make it up? Our group believes it is important that the preparation is careful and that implementation is feasible in practice. A law should not enter into force if the question is whether implementation is feasible. We want a clear answer now. In the letter of 10 June, the State Secretary writes that the lifecycle principle for investment policy is the most logical but not the only method to reduce the downward investment risk for older participants. The current draft decision does not leave sufficient room for other methods, the Secretary of State acknowledges. It announces its intention to give more room in the decision to implement the principle in a different way. The condition is that it can be substantiated that it adequately mitigates the downside risk for the pension date. DNB will check this out. In our view, Lifecycle reduces the valuable obligation of performers to establish, on the basis of the prudent person principle, the most optimal investment policy that suits a participant or group of participants. In addition to training and income, age may be one of the variables in which risk attitudes can be correlated. The standard should therefore not be "lifecycle unless," but apply the prudent person principle as an open standard. There is now a wrong, reversed burden of proof. We therefore think it better to take the lifecycle principle out of the decision; Article 14d. The Secretary of State states in the letter that the investigation already announced about the impact of the transition from the single investment mix to a lifecycle for the pension result will be completed in this autumn. We welcome the transitional right that will come if it is shown that the transition has negative consequences. We had called for transitional rights. I'm on the Netspar investigation now. In the letter of 2 June to the House of Representatives, the Pension Federation notes that, on the basis of the investigation, it cannot conclude to what extent possible redistribution effects occur between generations. A letter from the three trade unions FNV, CNV and VCP to the Lower House of 6 June asked to extend the study of the advantages and disadvantages of projection interest rates with an international comparison of discount rates in practice and the effects that occur. Is that research part of the promised international investigation? Please give me a clear answer. Our group continues to ask for a further investigation by Netspar into the volatility of the interest rate term structure. The Secretary of State spoke of an extensive and further technical investigation by Netspar. Can she explain what is being investigated further? Then this request for a review of volatility can be taken into account, can't it? During the AO of 8 June, the State Secretary noted that the volatility of the forward rate structure is part of the forward rate structure. It can't be any clearer. The Secretary of State also spoke about chicken and egg. We received an article stating that a risk-free interest rate is conceptually inappropriate to a variable payment without guarantees. Risk-free interest rates are used to value guarantees and there are no guarantees here. So why use this interest here anyway? Mrs Lodders initially saw the same thing. The article proposes to use the macro-stable discount rate as projection rate instead of risk-free interest rates. This interest is also used in the SER report for variants 4C and 1B in order to achieve more stable benefits. The CPB also shares that finding. Please respond. Then there is the motion I tabled with Mrs Oomen last time. The Secretary of State replies that it understands the need to review the job definition requirements between insurers and pension funds in the light of the introduction of a variable pension. A review and possible revision of those legal requirements will take some time. But how long will that take? We note that the job definition is a game between insurers and pension funds, the participants of which should not suffer. We ask the Secretary of State to take care of this now. I refer to Mrs Oomen's speech, which referred to the almost forced shopping of insurers. I have the honour to table an amended motion, including on behalf of Mrs Oomen and now also Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u12	The motion-Van Rooijen c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the aim of the Improved Premium Scheme Act is to offer all members of premium agreements a choice between a fixed or variable benefit;]] [[Considering that the choice of a variable benefit under a voluntary contribution agreement of a pension fund can only be made by the government if there is a 10% employer's contribution;]] [[noting that in practice it is not possible for occupational pension funds to apply for a 10% employer's contribution and therefore the option of variable benefit cannot be offered to participants;]] [[noting that the government has not so far chosen to amend the job definition arrangements in Article 120 Pension Act;]] [[noting that the job definition provisions in Article 120 of the Pension Act have been drawn up at a time when net pension schemes and variable benefits have not yet been established;]] [[Whereas the extension or shift of the job definition is undesirable;]] [[whereas updating is desirable, so that all members of voluntary pension schemes are also given a choice between fixed and variable pension benefits;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the way in which all pension funds can offer their members a variable benefit in the case of voluntary pension schemes where the absence of an employer's contribution does not impede and to complete this examination in good time with the intention of including the necessary amendments to the already announced sweeping law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This amended motion was signed by Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Oomen-Ruijten and Mr Ten Hoeve. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34255-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. What was the reason for Mr Van Rooijen to come forward with an amended motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u14	At the end of the debate last time, that was a little obvious, also in connection with the debate on Mr Rinnooy Kan's motion, which the Secretary of State indicated she was not recommending, but that she wanted to look at it when it was just an investigation. In our motion, the Secretary of State was asked to make that matter a reality. She also advised against that motion. Then I thought: perhaps I should table a more cautious motion, à la that of Mr Rinnooy Kan, and ask only for an inquiry. That is the thrust of the amendment at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u15	I can imagine anything, but what is Mr Van Rooij's overall position on the legislative proposal? This may play a role in assessing the precise scope of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u16	Then I'll move on, because I've got ten seconds left, I see, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u17	The counter's been stopped for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u18	I shall make a real sprint of that, like the other Mrs Schippers. Discussions with the sector and the further proposals of the State Secretary have implications and will be incorporated into the further report on the forthcoming draft decision. We agree with Mrs Oomen's call to map everything before the law is passed. We also prefer to wait for the treatment of the AMvB first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. During the first period, on behalf of my group, I expressed substantial concerns about this initiative legislative proposal, while simultaneously expressing great appreciation for the efforts of the Lodders/Klijnsma team, with admirable stamina. Both ingredients, care and appreciation, are present in the third period. Our core objection to this proposal is excessive complexity, partly driven by the intellectual origins of the proposal from the Shell Pension Fund. That could have been difficult, because then there should have been a new legislative proposal, which would have been based on principle rather than rule-based, and that should have gone outside this Chamber to seek its support. But, of course, care hasn't gotten any less. It is a good thing that the regular fixed decline variant is an option in this bill and not an assignment, but it remains a thing. This law is a harbinger of the great pension reform process that awaits us under a next cabinet. And if that process ends at this level of complexity, then we are doing the future and the current pensioners a very bad service. I would like to know whether the Secretary of State recognizes this concern, now that her own involvement in that reform is coming to an end. If so, I hope to hear from them later and to find something in the farewell message of the cabinet on this subject. The metaphor "under the hood" deserves extra attention in this respect. It is certainly not necessary in the 21st century to understand all the technical details of a product in order to appreciate it as a grateful user. But there must be underlying confidence that what is stored under the bonnet is reliably produced and appropriately guaranteed. Where this has recently been rather ugly under the diesel engine hood, it should not in due course lead to unpleasant surprises under the pension hood. I would like to invite the Secretary of State to reflect again on what the citizen really needs to understand about his pension in order to be able to sleep quietly before sleeping in. I also invite her to spend the time that separates us from the follow-up debate usefully in rethinking the balance between variety and confusion. The criticism has therefore remained, but this also applies to the appreciation of the efforts made. In two installments and two additional intermediate letters, the team has tried with effort to remove a number of specific concerns. The most important of these concerns was for my group, and for many others, I believe, the rigid interpretation of the Secretary of State for the principle of lifecycle in his relationship with the prudent person principle. In this context, the scientific insight is that, in summary, it is demonstrably optimal to invest a fixed capital fraction at any time of life, provided that the future return on own human capital is included in that calculation, including an appropriate assessment of its predictability. This sometimes leads to the original lifecycle interpretation of the Secretary of State, but not always. Our concern at this point was widely shared by pension providers. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has acknowledged and addressed them and our concerns. I thank her for that. However, I would ask her to keep this Chamber informed about the progress of this important and fundamental discussion. Our second major concern was the lack of freedom of choice at the retirement date. Pensioners who wanted to invest could at most benefit very little from the product offers of the various pension funds. In recent times, however, it has been argued that they are not waiting for all these forms of freedom of choice and are only seriously confused. But if we are willing to confront pensioners with the wide range of choices of, say, the car market, why should they panic elsewhere at the first glance under the hood? Those who prefer clarity over variety may feel most comfortable in a North Korean supermarket. I would prefer to talk about good consumer information and a good default option. So I am also grateful to the Secretary of State for the promised investigation into one-off unlimited shopping rights. On behalf of the co-authors of the motion on this subject, I would now like to announce that I would like to continue this motion until the outcome of that inquiry is known. May I assume that this outcome will be part of the aforementioned farewell message from the cabinet? My group had other concerns before. We would like to ensure that beneficiaries are charged only those costs which they themselves have caused, even if they do not opt for variable investment. Would the Secretary of State or the initiator confirm once again that those who hold on to it will not suffer any financial harm in this new setting? We were also concerned about the unevenly allocated transitional periods for pension providers and were pleased to see that this care has been taken away. We were also pleased to understand that a "dephered annuity" product offer is one of the possibilities. We were not in favour of a ten-year period of loss over a five-year period, and we will not insist on it now. And we currently share the team's preference for a single risk-free projection rate, but ask the Secretary of State to keep us informed of Netspar's forthcoming follow-up study on this topic. There is one important point that remains, and that is the concern about providing good information to pensioners who are considering investing. There is room for the three scenarios advocated, but there is also a strong need for more. People are persistent optimists in their assessment of risky financial products and should be explicitly pointed out. An additional effort in this area is really necessary, using all the scientific insights in this field, and there are many of them. I ask the Secretary of State to share her plans with this Chamber today and in the future. If she understands this concern, it will certainly be positive in the voting opinion I am about to issue to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u20	Mr Rinnooy Kan, do I understand that you are holding your motion? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u21	Mr. Chairman. As you know, I have just come from an interparliamentary COSAC conference with parliamentarians from all European countries. We have talked about many European challenges there, but the extremely low interest rates were not among them. For many European countries, this low level of interest rates is not as problematic as it is for us. Therefore, many countries do not have a pension system that is equally dependent on capital cover. Three weeks ago, I started my first term with a sketch of our beautiful retirement landscape. However, the landscape was divided by a deep gap between what is and what might be. That deep rift was caused by low interest rates. In many countries in Europe they are not really awake. Unfortunately, in a currency union, we cannot influence our interest rates so independently, and so we are awake from ever lower pension buying power as a result of the legislation linking pension expectations to extremely low risk-free interest rates. The question for the SP Group is whether this bill can reduce the number of sleepless nights. The conclusion at the end of the first and second periods was that, because of a number of shortcomings, it was better not to make this bill law, despite the fact that the proposal does indeed aim to make specific participants with a premium scheme less dependent on interest rates on one purchasing moment. We are now three weeks and two letters from the Secretary of State. The SP Group would very much like to thank the Secretary of State for these letters, because these letters clarify a number of issues and a serious handout to this Chamber has also been made in the field of lifecycle investment. At least, can we understand the letter on lifecycles in such a way that existing alternative methods for lifecycles from the sector will also be respected? I would like to receive an explicit confirmation of that. Furthermore, the question remains as to why "lifecycle unless" should be included in the Pension Act as a guiding principle. After all, the prudent person principle as an open standard is fine, according to my group too. In this respect, it is up to pension funds to correctly implement this. The SP Group has also taken note of the recognition that it would be desirable for all parties to be able to offer variable benefits, including in the case of voluntary schemes. What does this recognition mean? My group is wondering. I would like to hear how and when this will lead to action. Furthermore, the letter of 30 May addresses the issue of acceptance and reiterates the repeated call for the rapid introduction of the two domes of pensioners. However, that was for their last alarming calls, just before the debate, not to raise the proposal to law. The Secretary of State writes in her letter that these domes call for a stable pension system to be followed by taking risk-free interest as a basis. However, I believe that the domes rightly pointed out that precisely this risk-free interest rate leads to a monthly changing interest rate term structure and thus an unstable pension. After the debate in the first and second periods, we were reminded of a possible disadvantage of the promised extension of the distribution period to ten years, combined with a declining benefit. The pension savings fund could then become empty too quickly. Because of the stability benefits, the First Chamber has called for a wider distribution period, to cope with shocks. In my group's view, therefore, it is even more obvious that the drop in benefit should preferably be removed. This can be done with a different, fixed interest rate as a starting point. This would greatly improve the stability of pension benefits. In the opinion of the SP Group, the price, a small risk of redistribution, is easily outweighed. If the volatile forward rate structure based on risk-free interest rates remains the starting point, the risk of an unstable pension with a declining benefit is too high. My group is happy to endorse the call for a postponement. Indeed, the system is becoming more and more complex. Further research may provide more clarity. Without delay, the SP continues to share the view of both domes of pensioners that this proposal, weighing everything, should not be brought into law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u22	I understand that the author of the bill, Mrs Lodders, and the Secretary of State, need 15 minutes to prepare their response, but perhaps it can be done in ten minutes. I hear they'll do their best. I will suspend the sitting until 4.20 p.m., then they have 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u23	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to be here again today in your midst. A number of questions have been asked. The Secretary of State and I will maintain the division that we have also maintained in the first and second terms. As a result of the first and second term of office, I went into detail on the subject of the legislative proposal. 1 million people participate in this scheme and this bill aims to make an additional choice. The law introduces a variable pension. I refer to what I mentioned earlier. A number of senators have also reflected today on the system we currently know. I have said before that I think this is very understandable; people are worried about their pension. However, I would like to stick to the initiative proposal for an Improved Premium Scheme Act today. Mrs Oomen and Mr Van de Ven, among others, have asked about cost allocation. That's what we've been asking for before. The bill does not contain any specific rules for this. I can confirm that current pensions cannot be adjusted as a result of the costs associated with the introduction of this bill. There can therefore be no financial disadvantage for pensioners. For people who are still retiring, it could have consequences if the pension provider adjusts purchasing rates due to the higher costs. Moreover, the Financial Supervision Act stipulates that insurers and PPIs must make complete agreements with all customers on costs, which counteracts cross-subsidies between different products. As of 1 July 2016, a scheme will enter into force requiring pension administrators to be transparent about the implementation costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u24	I was aware of this, because the previous treatment has also responded, but the question is what happens in the next case. Someone is not yet retired, but is soon to retire, is in a fixed scheme and remains in that scheme. At the same time, the pension fund introduces the facility that allows it to provide a variable scheme. Are the costs incurred in creating that variable facility also borne by those who are in that fixed scheme and will not therefore benefit from the new facility?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u25	It is up to the pension administrator to lay down the costs where he wants to place them. I have just shared the starting point with the Chamber. If a pension administrator offers a variable pension that is likely to be higher, with a high probability, then it is possible that he will discount the cost of that pension with those who opt for that pension. The most important thing is that the bill does not determine where the costs are to be incurred. That's up to the pension administrator. However, the pension provider must be transparent about this. Of course, a participant always has the possibility, especially with an insurer, to make use of the right to shop. There must be transparency. In this context, I would like to refer to the motion adopted in the House of Representatives on the transparency of costs. The Secretary of State will discuss this further in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u26	I understand what is being said here, but I can't say I really like it. I would ask the Secretary of State to respond to this issue. I ask her if there is a need for regulation that guarantees that what I have just described cannot happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u27	Mrs Oomen, I hear you now saying that you agree with Mr Rinnooy Kan, but if you want this to be recorded in the Acts, you should say so in the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u28	I very much agree with Mr Rinnooy Kan's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u29	A number of questions have also been asked about projection interest rates. We must either opt for a risk-free projection rate or not. We also had an extensive exchange of views on this subject in the first and second periods. From the field and the House of Representatives the great desire has been expressed to calculate in the individual variant the same projection interest rate as in the collective variant. One of the main arguments for opting for risk-free interest rates, as I said earlier, is the ex ante redistribution that could take place with an expected return in the collective variant. The amendment tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg on this subject was widely supported in the House of Representatives. I have no other arguments to go into more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u30	We received another four or five letters from the field yesterday. I have here a letter from the Circle of Pension Specialists of 13 June 2016. That letter says: we realize that the size and the chances of redistribution at higher projection rates increase slightly, but we believe that in the event of a consideration, the points of unity, simplicity and better explanation prevail to the participant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u31	That's one of the letters sent to your room. Once again, we have had this debate with each other in great detail. It is the explicit desire to opt for one projection interest rate. I don't think anyone's waiting for an ex-ante redistribution. Even if the risk is small, we have not opted for it in this way in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u32	I would like to contradict the fact that no one is waiting for a redistribution. I believe that we have all quoted letters from interest groups and also quoted several spokesmen, which show that we are waiting for them. Mrs Lodders is not waiting for that, that is her consideration, but I strongly deny that no one is waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u33	Mr Elzinga is right. His comment is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u34	I hear Mrs Lodder saying that the redistribution of ex ante weighs heavily. That is what she said in the previous debate. I also understand now that she thinks it is quite large. The KPS, the Circle of Pension Specialists, says it will lead to a small redistribution. Mrs Klijnsma, at our request last time, we were very grateful to her for her undertaking that the extent of ex ante redistribution would be investigated by Netspar. In the Lower House the argument has been used that this weighs heavily, but in this Chamber it is said that it requires further investigation and that the scope is not known; hence also the investigation. We must therefore be very aware that this Chamber is responsible for the consideration of whether and to what extent that argument weighs as much as it did in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u35	The Secretary of State has indeed promised that further research will be carried out into the ex ante redistribution, but at the moment we have chosen in the present legislative proposal to apply one projection rate for the individual variant and the same for the collective variant. A number of questions have been asked about the complexity of information provision. That's what the Secretary of State will be going into shortly. I still have the point of the distribution period. As a result of the debate in this Chamber, I promised, in consultation with the Secretary of State, that we would be prepared to extend the distribution period to ten years. However, I have not heard the House express this wish. The bill is based on a five-year distribution period. It seems to me to be a good thing to stick to that, because that is the period over which the legislative proposal provides for a spread. It's an option. I would like to confirm that once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u36	For the sake of clarity, I understood the last time that the Secretary of State was willing to extend the deadline to a maximum of ten years, partly as a result of the debate. So that is not by definition ten years, but a maximum of ten years. Do I now understand that she is returning to that commitment, without a clear request from several political groups in the debate during this period? That seems strange to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u37	In this period, I have heard the question of whether the deadline should actually be extended to ten years. If it turns out that there is an explicit desire to extend the deadline to a maximum of ten years, Mr Van Rooijen is right to point out that it is a maximum period, but if I have listened carefully to the contributions of the various senators, I will try to keep it to a five-year period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u38	I thought I listened in after all. I may have heard one group say that, but I myself stressed that reducing the deadline to a maximum of five years is not exactly the right solution. I do not know exactly which groups have asked for this, but I have not heard it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u39	Once again, as a result of the first and second term debate, we have expressed our willingness to extend the period by means of a law of sweeping. The Secretary of State and I aren't wearing that. If there is such a wish, we shall submit it to both Chambers by means of a law of sweeping. This is a maximum distribution period of 10 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u40	So I hear it right: a maximum of ten years. That's a promise. That's what you're gonna stick with, and that's what's in the swipe bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u41	The Secretary of State is about filing the law of sweeping, but when I hear it like that, it will indeed take shape in this way: up to ten years. I've answered the questions with this. The Secretary of State will answer the outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u42	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of your Chamber for their third contribution, this time in a third term. I have listened carefully and am pleased that the letters I have sent to this Chamber are appreciated by the senators and that we can discuss them in this third term. If it's all right with you, I'll go to the senators, as far as they've asked me; the petitioner has already answered the questions to her. Mrs Oomen asked how long the investigation into the job definition will take. This is a subject that concerns funds and insurers. It's not easy. It's very principled. It's about market organization. I think it will take six months, but say that we will get it started as soon as possible. Both Mrs Oomen and Mr Rinnooy Kan have asked a question about the regulation on the allocation of the costs of variable pensions. There have been other senators on the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u43	I would like to ask a question about the foregoing. You admit that investigation, but if the results are positive, are you prepared to include this in the sweeping law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u44	Yeah, if that fits in with time. I must add that, because of course we want to take up the law of sweeping. If the investigation is completed in time and the result would be that we can use the sweeping law for this, I am fine with that. Many senators have referred to the allocation of costs, including Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mrs Oomen. I do not think it would be appropriate to prescribe in very detail how we should make this allocation for funds. Transparency about the place where these costs fall is very important. We have therefore taken this issue into account. I think it is logical for me to say this for the Acts, so that it is clear that the benefits of a variable pension and its costs come from the group that opts for the variable pension. I think it would help us to include this in the Acts. Mrs Oomen has also asked whether there really is a need for an investigation into shopping law. The answer to that is yes. I promised to do this, and we're gonna do this. Mrs Oomen also asked if the Chamber could review the General Measure before it enters the Official Journal. The AMvB is now in the so-called further report phase. He's already been to the Council of State. I would be happy to write to the Chamber a letter stating how we are adjusting the AMvB, but in the further report phase we can no longer give an AMvB a back-up position. I'd like to take this Chamber with me in the course of events.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u45	I'm not fast enough, but I had asked the Secretary of State a more precise question about shopping law. In the letter, the Secretary of State says, unlike in the second term, that it wishes to distinguish between contracts with and without collective risk sharing under the law of shopping. If she does, she won't have to do any more research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u46	It's a broader investigation. I can imagine that the researchers would also take these kinds of things, but the question was whether research is needed. I think so. Mr Lintmeijer, like Mr Rinnooy Kan, stressed that transparency is an incredibly essential part of the entire pension debate. Not only both senators, but all participants in the National Pension Dialogue have emphasised this. And oh, how well I can imagine that concern! Not only from both senators, but from all members of the pension dialogue. Probably we all meet people who ask us to improve the transparency of the old age provision and not to deteriorate. This is a point of attention that must be placed on one side in both chambers, but also within the cabinet and by subsequent cabinets. I think that is very important. After all, we have all made that second pillar situation quite complicated in recent decades. Of course, Mr Rinnooy Kan has already said something about under the hood and above the hood, he really doesn't know all the ins and outs of all the financial products that are at stake, but you do want to have some certainty and clarity about what is being offered, how you can use it and what you should and shouldn't step into now. Communication would be a great asset. GroenLinks has really put the emphasis on this and I have said mine. I take up the gauntlet, as far as I had not yet done so, of Mr Rinnooy Kan, who calls on me, the cabinet, to make sure that this is really very important in the spirit of the renewal of the system and to ensure that this transparency is really high on the agenda. I fully understand what has actually been put forward here by the entire Chamber and by the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u47	Thank you, Secretary of State. I'm glad to hear this. I find it a very interesting and very difficult problem. I think that's how we all experience it. I would suggest that we also have an appropriate study or advice, because we may be able to learn something here from other countries where pension reform processes are involved. In my view, they have all encountered this dilemma and may have found interesting solutions to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u48	Under the motto "you never know" I put this in my head. As we know, we will soon come to the Second and First Chambers with a perspective note. This is simply a very important part of the renewal of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u49	In my contribution I referred to the trade unions' request to include the pros and cons of various projection rates in the international competition they are asking for. I asked whether this could be included in the study on the interest sensitivity of pension systems in Europe which the Secretary of State promised last Thursday at Mrs Vermeij's request. Is the research that the trade unions are asking for part of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u50	Interest sensitivity is in itself a broad concept. So I'm going to see which parts of interest rates are included in the broad sense of the word. Mrs Vermeij's question was to look at the interest sensitivity of the various systems and the way in which they are embedded. In the Netherlands, we know the new financial review framework, which does not apply to the legislation we are discussing here. In that context, Mrs Vermeij asked that question, so I would like to do that research in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u51	I think the question of the trade unions is clear. Last week, the Secretary of State promised a study on the interest sensitivity of the systems in Europe. It's special that we're going to do that, and very well. The trade union movement now says that there are various forms of interest rates with different pros and cons and has asked to include the variations of interest rates in that research. Interest sensitivity is a broad concept. The question is how broadly the Secretary of State explains it: as broad as the unions or perhaps much scarier, by simply taking risk-free interest rates. It's interest-sensitive. The question is whether it's spacious or scary. The trade unions are calling for a broad approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u52	I imagine that Mr Van Rooijen will understand that I am not the researcher and that the researchers are looking at the way that interest rates are dealt with within a particular system in a European country. It is, of course, dealt with in many different ways. The same applies to our own system. I can therefore imagine that the researchers first look at what they consider important in the context of this new financial review framework. Mr Van Rooijen spoke about this very specifically. In this context, this research will take place. Let me look at the rest of Mr Van de Ven's questions. Mrs Lodders has also put forward a number of points. I have already addressed the very legitimate question about costs. I think that's how I answered his questions. In his contribution, Mr Van Rooijen has stressed very much what the situation surrounding risk-free interest rates is now in the broad sense of the word. It has put emphasis on the pension system and the new financial review framework. I have, of course, taken note of that. I am sure that I will talk to Mr Van Rooijen many times, including the perspective note which we will of course send to the Chamber. Then we shall undoubtedly cross swords here or be like-minded. One never knows. I'd be delighted to do that. At the end of the journey, Mr Van Rooijen changed his motion and retabled it. Now that that motion calls for an investigation, I can leave it to the Chamber. Then I come to Mr Rinnooy Kan's contribution. I have already addressed the level of complexity he spoke about, as well as the phenomenon of "under the bonnet" and the balance between variety and confusion. I thought he put that down nicely. I think Mr Rinnooy Kan has clearly indicated what I am doing about the principle of lifecycle. I would like to go further, in the sense that we allow funds to deal with this in a different way. We have that well aligned with the supervisor. Mr Rinnooy Kan asks me to keep this Chamber informed about the progress of this important discussion. I'm sure that's what I'm going to do, so I think that's pretty clear. I think I've clarified shopping law cases. Mr Rinnooy Kan already had a small debate with the applicant about holding on to it, so that they do not suffer any financial disadvantage. That's what he said. I think I've been clear about that, including for the Acts. I also think that it is clear that we are taking the ten-year period into account in the sweeping law. This has also been shown in this debate. The final point from Mr Rinnooy Kan's input was the good information on the risks to pensioners who are considering investing. That was an important concern. That extra effort is really necessary. That must indeed be explicitly pointed out. Once again, I am using the Acts to make this firm, because there is no difference of opinion between the D66 Group and the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u53	I thank the Secretary of State very much. What exactly does it intend to do on that last point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u54	I want, of course, with funds and insurers in conclave to see exactly how they can shape that communication. I can easily say that it is ultimately up to those funds and insurers. It's their responsibility. However, we are watching over shoulders and so is the AFM. Since people are indeed persistent optimists in their assessment of risky financial products, let me quote Mr Rinnooy Kan, we would like them to be slightly less optimistic about this. That's why we're sketching these three scenarios. However, that is not the panacea. That is why we will have to do so in many different ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u55	I would like to add my voice to what Mr Rinnooy Kan said about communication. In our contribution, I asked whether the Secretary of State or Mrs Lodders would like to address the concern we have about the falling benefit which has been called 'nominally stable' since the debate three weeks ago. The mere fact that we now have two different names for something that sketches a completely different picture, namely "slowing' and "nominally stable', means that I want the Secretary of State to give me a firm commitment that when it comes to communication, this Achilles heel of the bill is completely destroyed, so that everyone understands what he chooses if he chooses a declining benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u56	This contribution by Mr Van Rooijen is now included in the Acts. I think this is excellent for the character building of those who make the lines of communication with the funds and insurers. By sharing this with each other, we have actually shaped the outburst, as Mr Van Rooij just emphasized.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u57	Does it also apply to the falling benefits; the mean beast, the monster in this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u58	It's part of the job. In communication, you need to give clarity about the whole thing. It's all for the better and for the worse. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u59	I've summarized it for myself. The Secretary of State has spoken about the law of shopping that is to be investigated. This raises the question of the privacy aspects as regards the questioning of the pension participant and to what extent that fits with the law of the shop. That is how I understood the Secretary of State's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-7.u60	That's right. Mr Van de Ven has explicitly drawn attention to this. I come to Mr Elzinga, from whom I have already answered a number of questions. One of the questions was whether all parties could now offer that variable pension. The answer to that is yes. That brings me to the end of my third term.
