ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister. We have seven speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Van der Linde of the VVD Group. He has a five-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are dealing here with a bill to give corporations a little more space to support the housing of licence holders. With the influx of tens of thousands of refugees to the Netherlands, we have a serious housing problem since last year. This problem is now being addressed in a variety of ways. However, 17,000 licence holders are now waiting for adequate accommodation in asylum seekers' centres. Those people need to go somewhere. I advocated alternative housing on behalf of the VVD last year. You cannot put 17,000 people first in social housing at the expense of the warehouse worker and the policeman, the hardworking Dutch people who are economically bound and have been waiting for years for a home. We have proposed to look for alternatives: an empty retirement home, a former monastery, old office buildings and container houses. It doesn't have to be luxurious, but it does have to be safe and efficient. The cabinet has started to do so and officials, aldermen and mayors throughout the country have been working on the hawiewawie in the last six months to do so. That's not always easy. It wrings with spatial planning, it wrings with the pennies and it wrings with the people who live in the same neighborhood. Those people are the people. We do not want 17,000 people in the existing social housing units, but we also do not want emergency housing to be installed in every park and plant. It has to be custom-made and the power lies with the local government. It is precisely the alderman and the city council who can discuss what is appropriate and what is possible in consultation with the people in the neighbourhood. In one municipality that is indeed that vacant old people's home and in the other municipality an old office. The local power must be harnessed. There is now an administrative agreement with municipalities and provinces to urgently create 14,000 extra sober and small-scale housing units for status holders. The Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst makes a contribution available to make these projects profitable. He also rents buildings from the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf from the existing stock at cost price. As part of the administrative agreement, the Minister has promised to give the corporations a little more space so that they can help with that housing. I understand that step. With a little goodwill you can see it as appropriate in the core task of corporations, but it is, of course, a deviation from the Housing Act, which had just been tightened up after the parliamentary inquiry. I am thinking of leverages such as the Housing Investment Fund that took off the balance sheet buildings but the corporations retained the full operational risk. It is essential that the bill is properly sealed on this point. The objective is clear, the designation is temporary, the legal regime is temporary and the investment is limited to a maximum. The market test is a good guarantee that regular companies can just get started if they want to. However, I still have a question about the framework. We are doing this in the context of the sober housing that we have in mind. Is it nevertheless conceivable that corporations eventually become the operator of series of row houses of large investors? Then we still have the leverage fund. Nor can we rule out the possibility that these sober houses will eventually be involved by other groups. The municipality may even consider this desirable for reasons of integration or distribution. The corporation concerned may offer its services as long as more than half of its residents hold status. What happens if that 50% limit is exceeded? Is the agreement with the corporation automatically dissolved? Then who's gonna take over the service? Indeed, the market test showed that no commercial party wanted to enter. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The VVD has made a commitment to alternative housing and we must therefore help to create the conditions for this for the municipalities. If we're gonna do this hand-out, we're gonna want to know if the municipalities are actually cooperating. I see in many municipal aldermen of all political parties their stinking efforts to meet this great administrative challenge. It's hard. Locally there's resistance, but mayors and aldermen put their teeth in it. Meanwhile, I have to read in the newspaper that the VNG doesn't like it. The G-4 make it even furier and threaten to tear up the entire administration agreement. I get the fact that you're I would like to leave the discussions on this with the cabinet. However, if at this stage the G-4 tries to shift its enormous backlog of housing to the COA and if Amsterdam does have money for bed-bath bread, but not for status holders, it does not seem to me to be a matter of money, but simply of administrative competence. Before we use this law to give a hand to the municipalities, I'd like to get a response from the minister. This morning there was an article in De Telegraaf about bats, which hinder the development of alternative housing. I keep worrying about that. The whole of the Netherlands for the bats and the people can go down the tree. I have asked written questions on this subject with some of my colleagues in the VVD today. We wait for the answers to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u3	You can worry about bats, but of course the Netherlands cannot cope with the huge numbers of asylum seekers. What does the VVD think of the whole idea that older people can no longer live in this country, that large cities are struggling with huge waiting lists and that the government is just facilitating even more status holders? The borders are still wide open, waiting lists are increasing, and now we have a bill to allow housing corporations not to provide housing for their own population, no, but for status holders. That's a shame, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u4	I share this in part with Mr Madlener. Firstly, we are doing a great deal about the influx of new refugees. The deal with Greece and Turkey is currently working. It is far from perfect and there is also a route through Italy, but everything is done about the influx. Secondly, there is priority for status holders. Last Monday, the cabinet tabled a legislative proposal to finally delete that priority status. Mr Madlener knows that the VVD has tabled a motion on this matter. He supported it. We are delighted with that. Those are the first big steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u5	I can only see that the Netherlands received a record number of asylum seekers last year and we still have to wait and see what it will be like this year. In any case, the Dutch borders are still wide open. We are witnessing an increase in waiting lists, the elderly being cut back on their pensions, and here again a great deal of money is being released for status holders. Your priorities are clearly wrong, Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u6	I think we share those priorities. We are as concerned about the influx of refugees as Mr Madlener is, and we are doing everything we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. Whoever turns on the TV sees the misery that is taking place in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan. This terrible misery is causing many people to flee to safer areas. That's not a new phenomenon. As long as humanity is there, so long as people are looking for a safer one. It is up to us and our society to prevent people from fleeing. However, when they have to flee, we must ensure that they are given decent shelter. Today we are talking about former refugees, people who have been recognised as refugees in the Netherlands and who need to be included in society. They are people who have been granted a residence permit, i.e. status holders. The number of status holders still in reception of the Central Commission for Asylum is dramatically high. On 15 February 15,500 status holders waited for a house and on 7 March there were already more than 16,000. So in three weeks' time, that means 500 people waiting. Can the Minister indicate how he is going to get these people with a residence permit out of the shelter as soon as possible? What are his goals? What is he going to do to integrate refugees recognised as refugees in the Netherlands into society as soon as possible? The fact is that these people need to integrate as soon as possible and participate as soon as possible. Every day we wait longer is a lost day. Is it feasible not to have status holders in the shelter at the end of the year? If not, what is feasible and how will the Minister achieve it? It is particularly important for families with children that, when it is clear that they can stay in the Netherlands, they can integrate into society as soon as possible. In what way are children taken into account when it comes to housing status holders? Is the allocation of status holders to municipalities now progressing better? I'm still getting signals about vacant houses where a large family could live. That's not being matched by the COA yet. The SP Group has already said it: there must be a different distribution key. Is the Minister prepared to look not only at the population of municipalities, but also at other factors? Does the Minister, for example, want to take account of other house-seekers? On 2 September last year, the Minister made a commitment. The Minister would consult with the Platform Again Home to see if the distribution of status holders between municipalities could be improved. Can the Minister give a feedback on this? What are the possibilities for municipalities to exchange status holders, as it were? At the end of this month, the cabinet will conclude a new agreement with municipalities. What are the objectives of the cabinet? The big cities and eight aldermen have already sent out a clear signal. More is needed, more speed, more attention to integration, but also more money. The integration of status holders means that you have to do more than just give people a home. The aldermen write: we cannot cooperate in the reception of new citizens if the handles are lacking to offer them a fair chance. What is the Minister's response to this? I would point out that there are more house seekers on a waiting list. Also Dutch people, people who have been looking for a home for a long time. Those people shouldn't be forgotten. There is currently a housing shortage in the Netherlands. In particular, cheaper and affordable rentals are very difficult to find in many parts of the country. What does the Minister do for all those Dutch house seekers? Why does the Minister still allow municipalities with most waiting lists to house most status holders? In some places the waiting lists are longer than ten years. Isn't it completely illogical to have status holders in those places? Moreover, there are also places in the Netherlands, such as shrinking regions, where a lot of homes are empty. In 2016, approximately 45,000 status holders are expected to be entitled to a home. Is this expectation true? The fact is that in any case more homes are needed, not only for these people, but also for Dutch people. Is the Minister prepared to abolish the landlord's tax and ensure that more houses can be built on a structural and permanent basis? The SP Group sees great efforts by municipalities and housing corporations. My compliments on that. At the same time, however, we also see that corporations that only implement the law and cooperate in this policy have to do with threats. What's the Minister gonna do about it? How are corporate employees protected? I'd like to get a reaction to this. To help the search for more living space, sufficient money and powers are needed, especially in view of the time pressure. It is therefore a good thing that the working area of corporations is temporarily expanded. However, corporations should not be burdened with additional rules that make the conversion of buildings more difficult. These are rules such as a ceiling on investment and rules such as a so-called market test. In this case, a market test means that municipalities have to check whether the market cannot do the conversion of a property itself, but that does not happen. If the market had been interested in tackling this social task of housing, it would of course have already done so. It's not happening now, or at least too little. The Minister himself calls it uncertain whether this is going to happen. A market test therefore gives bureaucracy and takes time and money. Is the Minister therefore prepared to waive the market test?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u8	I am trying to follow Mr Bashir. Two weeks ago in an AO we talked about a plan to make the creation of new homes easier, especially in Amsterdam and Utrecht. This would be via the points system in Amsterdam and Utrecht, and this was mainly about the transformation of housing. At that time Mr Bashir argued in detail that it is not really necessary in Amsterdam, because it is being built up so much that we should not worry about it. Now I hear him argue that the pressure is so high in Amsterdam that no status holder can be housed there. It's two-and-a-half, I'd say. Can Mr Bashir explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u9	A building record was established in Amsterdam last year, but I still think this is too little. More needs to be done. There are two ways you can do that. You can raise the rents, as this cabinet and the VVD want, or you can build without compromising the rights of the tenants, as we want. In Amsterdam and also in Utrecht, investors are lining up to invest. There's a lot going on. Much more can happen, of course, and the Minister can do something about it by converting the landlord's tax into an investment obligation, so that housing corporations will build much more. However, you can do this without compromising the rights of the tenants and without asking for any more rent. In recent years, rents have risen by more than 28%. If it's up to the minister, you're going to pay €900 or €1,000 for a shopping pot of a few square meters. I say don't do that. Make sure people can just pay their rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr Bashir should stop talking about the 28% rent increase. I hear that in debate, debate, but it's just a bullshit figure. That's just not right, really. My short summary is: there is still too little built in Amsterdam and Utrecht. So we can just get on with those plans. Does Mr Bashir agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u11	I have just argued that we certainly need to build up, but without increasing the rents. That 28% is just right. Those are hard numbers. In the last five years, rents have increased by 28.8%, to be exact. That's not because of the SP. No, that is thanks to the policy of this minister and thanks to the groups of the VVD and the PvdA. Of course, you can increase the rents much further, as the VVD and the minister want, or you can build and impose an investment obligation on the housing corporations, without compromising the rights of the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u12	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u13	The figure mentioned by Mr Bashir relates to the small group of crooked people, whom we would very much like them to move on to another type of home. This does not cover the entire housing market for social rent. Does Mr Bashir agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u14	In this case, scavengers are, to explain it all to everyone, people who earn twice $20,000. A couple of two people who make $20,000 each, I don't think they're crooked. These are people who, in my opinion, are just entitled to a house; if it is possible to have a place to live, but if it is not possible to do so in a rental house. To give these people a 28.8% rent increase, I think it's too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u15	The SP starts its speech today with praise on the open borders and on the reception of asylum seekers in our country, while the Gulf States hardly take in anyone. The SP also knows that there are currently 35,000 Dutch homeless and that there are long waiting lists for affordable homes. The SP always pretends that it has nothing to do with each other and says that it just needs to be built up, but that's not fair to the grassroots. Right now, people need those homes. You can only spend a house once: either to an asylum seeker or to a Dutchman. Doesn't the SP agree that Dutch people should always lead the way for asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u16	The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that there should be no priority treatment at all, but that requires something else, namely the handling of waiting lists. Then you have to build, build and build. As long as you don't build, as long as there are waiting lists, you have to divide up the scarcity. That's what's happening now. For example, we advocate tackling the landlord's tax and using it to build houses, but the PVV group always says that there are far too many social rental homes in the Netherlands and we should not build up. As far as open borders are concerned, there is a courteous MP of the PVV, Mr Bosma, who himself said that you cannot close the borders. I quote him: you can say that we are closing the borders, but there are no more borders to close. And Mr Wilders himself helped to get those boundaries removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u17	This debate is now moving in every direction. Let us note that the Dutch borders are at least wide open and that every effort is being made to give all these asylum seekers a home here. When it comes to the distribution of scarce housing, we agree on this: these homes are currently scarce and the SP chooses to give them to asylum seekers. The own supporters who now need these homes are 35,000 homeless; they are people who can no longer pay the far too high rents................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thanks to the SP, the asylum seekers go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u18	Let's stick to the facts. There is a housing shortage and there has been no debate in which I, as spokesperson for the SP Group, did not advocate building houses. We need to build; we need more homes, including for Dutch people. As long as you haven't handled the waiting lists, you're running out of time. You're mirroring people here an image that doesn't make sense. It was even a MP from the PVV who said you can't close the borders. Let's look at the facts. The SP hasn't been in charge in this country yet, but the PVV has. In 2011, when the PVV supported the cabinet, 16,114 asylum seekers came to the Netherlands. So if you wanted to close the borders, why didn't you? It didn't work. You can't close the borders. You can make sure that the problems that lead to people having to flee are dealt with. For example, stop the war in Syria. But it was the PVV group that supported the bombing of Syria. Then Mr Madlener should not come to me to blame me for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u19	There's a lot of things being swept up in one pile. Today's debate is about how we divide the scarce homes. At the moment there are tens of thousands of Dutch people who need these homes very much. The SP dreams of many new homes, but they are not there! We need to discuss the issue of distribution today. The SP advocates, even today, giving these homes only to asylum seekers and letting the Dutch stand in the cold. That's what the SP does. Mr Bashir can get what he wants, but this is a fact. We are now discussing the distribution of housing and the task of housing corporations. The SP opts for asylum seekers. The PVV chooses the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u20	The SP chooses asylum seekers as well as the Netherlands. You solve it by taking care of the waiting lists by really building up. By the way, this bill ensures that houses are added. There will be a grant of €10,000 per person who will be housed somewhere extra. As far as the SP is concerned, everything must be done to make the additional housing that comes with permanent homes, so that everyone can benefit from them. The SP wonders whether setting limits to housing investment does not create additional difficulties. Is the amount of €10,000 I just mentioned not too little? Why should we invest €10,000 per person to create a temporary solution, if we can also create a permanent solution with a little more money? Can the Minister answer that? Is he willing to consider whether it is possible to invest on permanent homes that ultimately benefit everyone? I'll conclude and round up. The Minister can and must do more. As far as SP is concerned, the waiting lists need to be shortened. Facilitate housing corporations and municipalities to carry out their housing tasks. Delete the market test and ensure that the landlord's tax becomes an investment obligation so that it is more used for all waiting people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr. Chairman. Last Monday, the legislative proposal abolishing the primacy of status holders was sent to the Chamber. We already know that little will change in practice, as the Council of State states. Soon we will talk about it, but one thing is certain: our government is mainly facilitating status holders when our older people cannot make ends meet. 40% of the elderly can't make it out of retirement. There are food banks in the Netherlands. At the moment there are 35,000 homeless people, half of whom are ordinary Dutch people who have been thrown out by divorce, by a drop in the price of houses or by unemployment. There are also older unemployed people who are no longer able to get a job while their care costs increase. There are longer waiting lists for an affordable rental house. More and more people, hundreds of thousands of families now, live in an overpriced house and would love to rent an affordable, cheaper home. And what are the big cities doing? They come here asking for hundreds of millions more, not for the Dutch I have just mentioned, but for status holders, for asylum seekers who come to the Netherlands massively, who choose the Netherlands and do not go to the rich Gulf states. Nor do they even opt for Eastern Europe. No, they want to go to Holland. We are talking about whether these are real refugees in other committees, but the PVV seriously doubts that. The Netherlands is doing everything it can to accommodate status holders and forsakes its duty to house the Dutch. That is why the Netherlands has lost its standards and values. The Netherlands is beginning to lose its identity. The PVV will continue to stand up for our identity. The Dutch must continue to be able to rely on our country when it becomes difficult. That's the welfare state the PVV wants to fight for. We want to help the people who have built our country, not the profiteers who are only after our money and come to the Netherlands instead of going to the rich Gulf states in the region. This minister used to be chairman of the VVD, but we don't see much of that history. The Minister for Housing and National Service has previously become a puppet of the PvdA. All legislation for status holders is driven through this parliament with an emergency, while the Dutch remain in the cold. What about the PvdA plan to place 14,000 cheap sober container houses? I don't see them yet. I can see that The Hague has decided not to do it and to set up expensive homes for status holders. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. We see this bill again as confirming that the cabinet is setting the wrong priorities. This cabinet systematically opts for asylum seekers and not for Dutch people who are in the cold and having a hard time. That is why my group will be voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. People who have fled to the Netherlands from a war zone and the status of being allowed to stay here are entitled to housing. There can be no doubt about that. At present, more than 16,000 status holders in an asylum-seekers' centre are waiting for a home. This is not a recent development. It was like this months ago. That's what D66 thinks is downright disastrous. Today we are discussing a law that will make it possible to create more living space for this extremely needy group. However, it is impossible not to consider this law in conjunction with the deletion of the urgency status for status holders. This creates the chance that status holders will have to wait for a longer period of residence and that asylum seekers' centres will become even fuller. By deleting the statement of urgency, the coalition is throwing its problems over the fence of the municipalities. They must now determine whether there is an urgent status in their municipalities. In recent months, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the Interprovincial Consultation, housing corporations and the College of Human Rights asked Minister Blok not to delete the urgency status. I'm afraid that didn't help. We all know that the Minister is not in favour of this measure at all. He said a few months ago in this Chamber that removing the status of urgency would be bad for integration, bad for the composition of the neighbourhoods and bad for the chances of the labour market. I hope that the VVD is pleased that in the struggle with the PVV for electoral favor it can make an electoral profit over the back of the municipalities. I also wonder how the Labour Party feels, because she made the coalition deal to remove the urgency status in exchange for a guarantee of housing status holders. This guarantee is clearly not available. They're happy with a dead sparrow. The promised extra homes are not available, but the urgency status is still being removed. That's not really strong and social. A nice political game, but without winners. I see Mr Van der Linde standing at the interrupting microphone, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u23	Shall I give him the floor, then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u24	We were here on October 7th. That was the first time we talked about removing that urgency status. Then Mr Koolmees said that it was a test balloon and that the VVD with its tail between its legs would leave again. Well, we've been a few months. It may have taken a little longer than I wanted, but the bill is here now. We're finally gonna work something out. We leave it to the municipalities. Municipalities get all the freedom. What's against it? Why can't this be discussed in the municipal councils? Why should this be arranged from The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u25	The funny thing is that I was there during the debate on 7 October. I know the history behind this. This minister, also from the VVD, also thought it was a bad idea by Mr Van der Linde. He had a test balloon that morning in the General Dagblad. The Minister thought it was a bad idea, because it is bad for integration. It is bad for the neighbourhoods and for the opportunities for jobs and education. So this minister thought it was a bad idea. I was indeed a little provocative that day, Mr Van der Linde put it in a motion. It has now become part of the law, albeit weakened. I have just said that the Dutch municipalities, the provinces, the housing corporations and the College of Human Rights think all this is a bad idea. Why do they think this is a bad idea? Because it doesn't help, because the municipalities still have to house the same amount of status holders. It does not contribute to solving this problem. It only slows down and does not bring about the desired integration. That's why I think this is a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u26	This is a different legislative proposal than we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr Van der Linde, please return to this subject if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u29	Still a little while, Mr. Chairman. That pilot balloon has now become law, but I do not get an answer from Mr Koolmees to my specific question what is against discussing who you give priority to in the city council. Why does that have to come from The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u30	I followed a hearing where Mr Wienen, mayor of Katwijk, as chairman of the asylum consultation was present on behalf of the VNG. He said that the Association of Dutch Municipalities thinks this is a very bad idea. The problem is now being thrown over the hedge in the municipalities. The municipalities have and keep the responsibility to house these people, but they are now being deprived of an instrument to solve this good and social, but also with opportunities. Mr Van der Linden at the time gave up a test balloon in the struggle with the PVV on the question of who makes the most right-wing sound here. This has now become a law, and as a result we are taking another step backwards in solving the real problem. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u31	This really is a different bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u32	This is not an answer to my question. I understand that the VNG does not want to have that discussion, see the aldermen opposed to discussing this, but what is democratically opposed to discussing something as important as the housing of status holders in the city council? Why does that have to come from The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u33	In this law, a number of groups such as status holders and residents of stay-of-my-living homes had been designated for a reason as people who should quickly be eligible for a home. We all attach importance to this in the Netherlands, not only because of reasons such as integration and opportunities for work and education, but also because of the spread of people across the Netherlands so that not all asylum seekers live together. That's why we made that law once. It is now a political issue because Mr Van der Linde is tabling a motion in the short term. Everyone says that this only puts us at a disadvantage. It only causes delays and problems. I wish you good luck with this law, but D66 strongly opposes it. This law aims to make additional housing available so that status holders can flow faster. D66 likes to see this happen quickly so that status holders can quickly start integration. We are therefore in favour of this law. I have a few more questions for the Minister. What happens to a building if the number of status holders falls below 50% and there is no need to add status holders? What does this mean for such a building? Will the non-status holders have to leave the building? My second question concerns the market test. I agree with the Minister that authorised institutions, housing corporations, should only make an offer if there is market failure, so if the offer is not made by market players. In practice, however, it could also prevent a market participant from making an offer, but this offer is unattractive and it is known that the approved institutions offer a more financially advantageous offer. Moreover, market players are not bound by the minimum of 50% licence holders and, given their mandate to host status holders, the municipalities are likely to prefer the approved institutions to the market players. What does one do in such a case? Let the market do its job and do its job for the supply, or let the authorized institutions do the job? I'd like to get a reaction to this. My third point concerns the distribution. For both the status holders and the Netherlands, it is of the utmost importance that the people who have received a status get to work as quickly as possible on learning the language and getting a job, in short, with integration. Various waves of immigration in the past have shown that the spread plays an enormous role in integration. The present legislative proposal creates the chance that status holders will be put together exactly what is not good for integration. What is the Minister's view on this? How will he promote this? I would like to receive a response from the Minister on these three points. D66 is deeply concerned about the housing of status holders. Despite the many plans for this, it has barely begun. When I look at the figures for the first half of 2016, I see that the task is inadequate. 20,000 status holders would be housed. We are already lagging behind in this task. In addition, the figures show that 20,000 is really too little. There are 5,500 status holders, but 16,000 are still waiting in asylum seekers' centres. This creates serious problems for asylum seekers' centres. They're getting overcrowded. There is even talk of sports halls. That is why I urge the government to start housing status holders as soon as possible, so that they no longer have to put their lives on hold and be able to integrate with school and with work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u34	The next speaker is Mrs Schouten, but she has not shown up. I give the floor to Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr. Chairman. We believe that it is fair to recognise that the legislative changes that have been made over the last few years about corporations contain too strict a definition of tasks. Already during the discussion of the Housing Act, the CDA Group strongly criticised the too tight regulation, which prevents tailor-made work. It now appears in the housing of status holders that the government desperately needs the corporations, but the law does not allow that. That's why we need a temporary law to fix it now. That brings us to the first question. How temporary is this law? A time horizon of five years has now been set. So the problem's solved? Is this extension of the law no longer necessary? Why five years and not another random number? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. The CDA Group has repeatedly called for attention to be paid to displacement. It has consistently stressed that the influx of licence holders should not lead to major displacement of regular house seekers. Many municipalities are trying very hard to do this. You hear that in some places there is virtually no displacement, but we also hear sounds that in some municipalities Dutch people have to wait too long for a house to arrive on a regular waiting list by displacement. Among other things, the SP Group mentioned this in the first term. Our concern about displacement is and remains great, especially as the target groups identified as urgent continue to grow. You can see that growth is increasing not only in status holders but also in other groups. In the note following the report, we read that the proposed measures should reduce the pressure on the housing market as a result of the influx of licence holders and reduce the pressure on the regular house seeker. The CDA Group wants to lay down and highlight the issue of preventing displacement in the social rental market more clearly in the law. We do not want any less displacement; in principle we do not want any displacement at all. To this end, an amendment has been tabled which lays down the obligation of mayor and aldermen to take measures to ensure that the need for housing for those who are not designated as urgent residents is met. Since the problem of displacement is not to the same extent in each municipality, it is left to the municipality to find solutions tailored to the local situation. The aim of this measure is to minimise as far as possible the adverse effects of the designation of urgent groups such as status holders for those not designated as such. Then I'll come to the projections. The CDA Group has explicitly asked for progress in the processing of the agreements contained in the administrative agreement. In it, agreements were made on the realisation of 14,000 additional housing facilities on top of the existing housing stock, in particular for licence holders. What's the status? We hear a lot of signs that the local authorities are moving fast. What's the Minister gonna do about this? He can't let that happen, can he? We have also asked for an estimate of the future influx of asylum seekers and status holders. Why is a substantiated estimate of the number of homes needed for the status holders not to be delivered in the coming years? We also want to see the effects of family reunification in the long term. Those are very logical questions and we do not understand why cramping is done about the figures and assumptions. If the Minister wants to present different variants to us in scenarios, that is good, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u36	I have another question about the CDA amendment that addresses Article 12 of the Housing Act 2014. Let that be exactly the article in which that priority status is regulated. Does Mr Ronnes mean that he wants to maintain priority for status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u37	No. What we mean by this is that when the city council decides to appoint a particular target group as an urgent group, it must ensure that the regular waiting list does not suffer. In other words, if you decide that you grant urgent status to certain groups and that you have to do something extra for them, you have to make sure that this does not affect your regular group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u38	That's good. The CDA is therefore still in favour of the removal of this priority regime. Well, I guess I'll just arrest him. At the same time, does Mr Ronnes simply want social housing? He just wants extra social housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u39	In those places where it is necessary, we want social housing. I'm here to talk about the market test. We find it amazing that the Minister wants to hold on to a market test. That's gonna take time when the urgency is high. Both municipalities and corporations are asking for the market test to be omitted. Is it wise to continue to demand this market test? The market test is not in the law, only in the General Measure of Governance. The Minister has previously been instructed to place a light market test in the AMvB. So he's gonna need a market test. We also consider a light market test unnecessary. It is precisely because we need to remove as many thresholds as possible in the construction of homes for asylum seekers that we want to avoid any market test. The CDA will table a motion on this point unless the Minister now undertakes to refrain from any form of market test when renting and managing third party premises by the authorised institution in the case of status holders housing. We look forward to the Minister's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u40	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Brouwer of the Labour Party. It's the first time he's been standing here. So it's a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u41	Mr. Chairman. I'm having my maiden speech today in this beautiful parliament. That's a good time for a personal note. I'd like to start with that. I was born almost 60 years ago in Annerveenschekanaal, a village on the border of Drenthe and Groningen in the peat colonies. Such a village with a long straight canal with on both sides a ribbon of farms and working houses. The village is very similar to the description of the village in Geert Maks book How God vanished from Jorwerd. Now God was never so prominent with us half a century ago with one almost unused reformed church, unlike one village down the road, in Kiel Windeweer, where the reformed Koksians were in charge. That was noticeable when we cycled through the village as a child and got a pebble rain from the local school youth. Something that happened the other way around, by the way. Furthermore, as in Jorwerd, there was still work in the village. In addition to farmers and farmhands, there was a choice of middle classes and craftsmen and of course a kindergarten and a primary school. Publicly, though. For the first time this school year there is no school in Annerveenschekanaal. Of the other jobs, only a few farms remain. People are working elsewhere now. The conclusion is that the village has evolved from a community to a residential village. A demographic movement that is accompanied by shrinkage, a subject that I have received in my portfolio and which is very important to me because of my own origins. I have the conviction that the source of strength and inspiration in your life can be found in your early childhood. In my youth I was appointed the farm in which the then Director-General of the FAO World Food Organization, Mr Addie Boerma, had spent his youth. Addeke Boerma was nominated as such by Prime Minister Piet de Jong in 1967 and, as far as I know, was the only one from the Netherlands to hold this high post. The reason I try to carefully mirror him is not only that it was his motivation to eliminate hunger and poverty. It's also because in 1967 he thought employees should come from behind their desks and go into the field. In these times, I would say that we are moving too far into the system world, when we should look up the world of life. Moreover, this aberration of the search for solutions in system worlds has not decreased since 1967, but has increased, even in this house. I have also spent more than 30 years working for the public sector, such as municipalities, the employment office, welfare institutions and the trade union movement. My period as head of the region FNV North Netherlands is the most at my heart: doing something for people for whom their work is a precious asset and for whom there are constant dangers around the corner that can endanger their security of existence. That was just after the death of Joop den Uyl my motive and motivation to become a member of the PvdA. After 25 years of activity in all sections of the association, I also wanted to taste the challenge of a representative position. The fact that I have now temporarily succeeded as a substitute, I see as a great privilege. What is more beautiful than being one of the 150 people allowed to represent 17 million inhabitants of the Netherlands? I would like to show this by now giving the PvdA's view on the legislative proposal under discussion. The Netherlands is facing an important task now that we have to provide a decent group of admitted asylum seekers with housing. This year there is expected to be a task of more than 40,000 licence holders who need to be given housing; this while more people are waiting for a social rental house. People who have been on waiting lists for a long time must also be served as soon as possible. That is why it is important that there is more social housing, both self-employed and independent and both temporary and permanent. The bill can help to solve the bottlenecks and therefore receives our support. We are concerned about the pace in which municipalities and housing corporations manage to create new housing. The delays in the housing of licence holders appear to be increasing. Of the new instruments, it is not yet clear how they work. That is why it is important that we keep our finger on this rapidly changing issue and that the government continues to actively examine which instruments work and which instruments need to be adapted. We would like to hear the experiences so far and assume that the government will remain proactive in doing so. As far as my group is concerned, this open attitude must also apply to the conditions in the regulation that we are now making possible. It is our priority that we should not lose sight of the lessons learned from the survey on the abuses of housing corporations. The corporations must ensure that they manage their risks properly and now do not take irresponsible risks from the private owners. The Authority should monitor the situation closely. Within the scheme there are a number of restrictions which must be demonstrated in practice how obstructive they work. I am thinking of the market test, the maximum investment of €10,000 per rental unit and the requirement that at least half of the tenants should be authorised at the start. What will the government do if the market tests show that the provision of these services is virtually not private? It is a good thing that municipalities and corporations are forced to look for the most efficient ways to create housing with the maximum investment of €10,000. But what if more is needed in the future, because the low-hanging fruit has already been picked? What is the consequence if a corporation and a municipality have done their best to rent out at least half of the accommodation units to licence holders, but this has not been possible due to circumstances? I do not think that the final deadline for this regulation can be set in stone either. At the moment, the scheme ends after five years, but no one can predict what the world will look like. This Minister cannot make any promises about this. I see this bill as a good way to make more accommodation for licence holders. Above all, it is important that all parties continue to make maximum efforts. I hope for a positive and active attitude on the part of the Minister. I also refer to the letter from the four large municipalities, in which they state that they cannot regulate the accommodation of status holders with the current means of work, participation, education and care. We also wonder whether the current scheme for housing grants will be sufficient for the increased task of housing status holders. It is quite clear that good and rapid integration of licence holders in addition to housing also requires work, participation, education and care. As long as there is administrative unrest and uncertainty, it will remain difficult to take up housing vigorously. In a broader perspective, many housing units for the social housing sector will have to be added as soon as possible, as laid down in the Albert de Vries motion on 8 October last year, in order to reduce the pressure to grant residence rights to all those seeking housing in the social housing sector. Finally, an example of an initiative from society. In the vicinity of Eelde, in my town of Tynaarloo, about 150 licence holders will be temporarily accommodated in two properties from April onwards. This is a unique experiment of INLIA, in collaboration with the municipality of Tynaarloo, whereby status holders integrate more quickly into the region and at the same time free up space for newly arrived refugees in crowded azc's. The now vacant buildings in Eelde are the former Dutch Flight Academy and the former youth clinic of the Stichting Verslavingszorg Noord-Nederland, where a total of 50 people can get a place. Status holders who do not yet have a home are temporarily accommodated in this intermediate facility and immediately start their integration into Dutch society. A major advantage of the intermediate supply is that people can start integrating into the region. The municipality also wants to encourage participation in sport and cultural activities in cooperation with local churches, associations and social institutions. What does the Minister think of this initiative? In this way, and now I come back to the beginning of my speech, status holders may be able to give an impetus to rural areas by making residential villages a little more communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u42	Mr Brouwer, I congratulate you on your maiden speech. It was a maiden speech as a maiden speech should be, with a nice personal note. I've listened to you with pleasure. All of Tynaarloo has been cheering for television, I just got in. I congratulate you first on your maiden speech and then it is up to colleagues to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mr. Chairman. Before going into the questions asked, I would like to congratulate Mr Brouwer on his maiden speech. I really liked how he described how a youth in Annerveenschekanaal leads to a corridor to politics. I am sure that we will talk many times, because the subject of shrinking is also in my portfolio. For this, measures have been sent to the Chamber. The reason for this law is not based on the assumption that the Housing Act would have unduly restricted the scope of housing corporations. Mr Brouwer rightly pointed out that a number of abuses in the corporate world were a reason to clearly define and say the task area: you are there for social housing, for good housing for people with a small wallet and not for commercial or risky activities. The thing that makes this law temporarily possible is making investments in and renting out someone else's properties. Investing in someone else's property is a risky investment. It will often involve the installation of plumbing in former offices or in a former pilot school. Because it's not your property and because it's temporary, you know there's no ordinary depreciation periods. For a housing corporation, but actually for every investor, an investment in a rented property will generally be seen as unbusiness and with additional safeguards. It will really be different in the annual report than an investment in its own premises. Because housing corporations end up dealing with community money, it's up to the legislator, you and I, to make sure that this doesn't happen lightly. That is why there is a maximum amount attached, which we have tested for reality. We add that it is a temporary authorisation because of special circumstances. Mr Ronnes expressed his deep concern for repression. Money that housing corporations spend on the specific target group of the status holders, even if it is in a 50% ratio, cannot be spent on another target group. It is precisely from the point of view of repression that there should be support for these restrictive measures. For the same reason, there should be support for a market test. After all, any housing that a market participant wants to provide does not need to be provided by the corporation. And the concern for displacement is right in front of those corporate homes. We know from the reactions to the subsidy scheme that there is a great deal of interest from market players. All this interest leads to extra housing that is not provided by the corporations. The corporations thus retain their money to invest in social housing for the core target group. It would therefore be strange, precisely from the point of view of repression, to oppose a market test and it would be strange to want higher maximum amounts or to make it possible, even more extremely, permanently. I come to the questions I answer by spokesperson. Mr Van der Linde had worked on the hawiewawie. I didn't know that expression yet, but it seems standard to me that MPs are working on the hawiewawie. That's what they're paid for. He was concerned that corporations could become large-scale managers of investors' premises. My answer to that is no, because that is precisely one of the undesirable constructions that we have prevented with the Housing Act. That is why we are also saying in this case: there is a review of whether there are 50% status holders and it is a temporary law. Mr Van der Linde, Mr Brouwer and Mr Bashir asked for a reply to the letter from the G-4. It is not unusual that there is also a bit of negotiation through the newspaper when there are conversations with parties. These large municipalities indicate that they also see financial consequences in terms of training, integration and guidance, regardless of the housing assignment. They hope, of course, that these costs will be borne less by the municipal taxpayers and more by all the other taxpayers. The discussions on this matter are now taking place. It does illustrate, however, that it is a major social task, both at national and municipal level, to receive such large numbers of refugees. The Netherlands is good for its signature under treaty obligations and so we do this, but our wallet is not inexhaustible. This applies not only to the municipalities, but also to the Empire. We hope to come out of this in good consultation over the next few days, just as we managed to do with the previous administrative agreement. We've been asked about the bats. I leave that point to the colleague responsible, no matter how much these animals are nice to me. Mr Bashir asked how many status holders to receive and whether the asylum seekers' centres were empty by the end of the year. The targets for this year have just been published: 20,000 in the first half of the year and 23,000 in the second half of the year. Are the asylum seekers' centres empty? I sincerely hope so, but that is more specific in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and Eritrea than in the Netherlands. To a large extent, it is now also dependent on the European negotiating tables, where we can make good agreements about who we may or may not allow and where we want to accommodate those people at European level. Unfortunately, it is not in the power of the Dutch government to reconcile Shiites and Sunnis or to ensure that there is a government in Eritrea that respects human rights, however much I would like it to be. Mr Bashir asked whether the regional remit could be redesigned. We've had that discussion before. In municipalities where the housing market offers a lot of space, the labour market is almost always poor, because the housing market follows the labour market. It would therefore mean that you bring many status holders, who almost always start their lives here without work, to municipalities where very little work already exists. This creates extra tension in society and leads to additional welfare costs and support costs in municipalities. Mr Bashir asked if I had spoken to the VNG about this recently, but this is why the VNG says every time I talk to her about this that the distribution of status holders should continue on the basis of the number of inhabitants. The municipalities have the freedom to assign status holders to each other in a different relationship. A municipality with a tight housing market can therefore ask a municipality with a wider housing market to take over part of the status holders. The municipality that takes over those status holders will generally ask for money for that. In practice, therefore, these agreements do not come about. So the reason is not that it would be legally impossible. Mr Bashir also asked whether the COA would take into account the needs of families with children and the qualities of status holders when matching. That's what the COA does. It seeks suitable homes for families with children and tries to bring professional qualifications into line with local needs. It will never succeed at 100%, because the task remains great and complicated, but this is done in good conscience. Mr Bashir also raised a number of general comments on the functioning of the housing market which we often talk about. I will respond briefly to that. Mr Bashir always says that he wants to abolish the landlord's tax, and I always point out that it must be made clear how, in the end, 1.7 billion, an amount that is simply used for agents, teachers, rent payments and AOW, should be financed differently. Mr Bashir always says not to want rent increases, but if rents cannot rise, corporations and other property owners can invest even less. So the waiting lists get longer. The pass-through of the SP's electoral programme also shows that neatly. That is why I find both measures very undesirable. Mr Bashir specifically asked about this law why there is a maximum investment. In my introduction, I said that an investment in a property that is not owned by a housing corporation is money that we really do not see again. We checked in the market if you can make an existing building decently suitable for €10,000 per place. It's possible. Higher amounts would lead to displacement along the financial route, because a housing corporation can only spend this money once. Therefore, higher amounts are undesirable. Mr Bashir is against a market test. I have already indicated that this would also lead to displacement, because that would exclude the market players, who appear to be the main user of the subsidy scheme. This means that the use of corporate housing is increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u44	The Minister says that the market test is necessary because the market may want to deal with certain issues, but why not? I do not think it happens because there is too little interest from the market or because the returns are too low. Then you can conclude that you can drop the market test, especially since this bill is a temporary bill, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u45	It'll happen. I just indicated that most of the grant applications come from market players rather than housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u46	But the €10,000 that we want to spend now, we want to be able to spend quickly, without too much bureaucracy and without spending money on market tests that turned out to be unnecessary afterwards. Could you not therefore refrain from the market test for this particular legislative proposal, which is still temporary measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u47	That leads to displacement. The market players who appear to be willing to do so will not do so. This means that housing corporations' money is put into this that could have been preserved for their classic task. That is why I am very opposed to this. Mr Bashir also made a statement which alarmed me. He talked about possible threats to employees of housing corporations. If there are, they're absolutely unacceptable. Threats are unacceptable at all, but especially when it comes to people performing public tasks. I had a quick look at Aedes to see if we have any signals on this at the moment. I didn't get them. If Mr Bashir has any concrete signals, I would like to hear it from him. I very much agree with him that this is unacceptable. Mr Madlener asked about the progress of the sober housing subsidy scheme. Until March, 307 requests received a reservation in the budget. These are concrete investment plans for more than 1,500 licence holders. As a result, 10% of the subsidy amount available has been allocated. The subsidy scheme is still running for two years, so it is running tidyly well. Mr Madlener specifically asked how things were going in The Hague. The former Ministry of Social Affairs in The Hague has been designated as an important location. We are working in close consultation with the municipality of The Hague on a sales path for that building, with the condition that an important part of it is rented for a number of years for this target group. That sales trail is running and there is also an interest in it. As long as it runs, I cannot make any substantive statements about this, but the cooperation with the municipality of The Hague is fine. I come to Mr Koolmees. I would like to have the debate on the deletion of urgency at the time when the Chamber deals with that law. It was sent to the Chamber and so it is further in her hands how quickly that happens. I hope it happens soon. Under this law, Mr Koolmees and others asked what happens if the number of status holders in a project using this legal space falls below 50%. Corporations report annually on the occupation. If it falls below 50%, the Authority will assess whether there is still a mandate at that time. We cannot foresee how long there is a great need for housing for status holders. If, in two or three years' time, it has been reduced, the municipality has no mandate and people are pouring out, then it does not make sense to hold on to that 50% cramped. If that municipality still has a mission, the Authority will hold on to the 50%. Mr Koolmees had a specific question about the market test: what if the market makes an unattractive bid? Well, then I wouldn't accept that as a pawnbroker, because you're not going to accept an unattractive offer. It was then examined whether a real offer from the market was possible. And what if the market player doesn't want to house 50% status holders? The 50% target applies to housing corporations, which are necessary for this extension of the law. This does not in itself apply to market players, but municipalities and housing corporations are, of course, looking for housing opportunities within the framework of the job description. They're probably gonna say that that's not gonna help enough. That's an objective test. Mr Koolmees asked whether this bill would contribute to the spread. It is precisely by choosing this 50% allocation that you will avoid getting separate buildings with 100% status holders, completely isolated from other residents, while at the same time ensuring that a substantial number of status holders are housed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u48	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. On the second point of the market test, my question was something else. The law now states that authorised institutions, i.e. housing corporations, may offer such a property if at least 50% of the status holders come to live in it. The municipalities obviously have an interest in this, given the tasks they have. My question was actually the other way around, namely whether there is too much incentive not to let market players be addressed. That was the essence of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u49	A municipality is not obliged to apply 50% to market participants. This law focuses on an exemption for corporations in certain circumstances. It may also be that an offer is made that adds little. However, I have to take a step back. The owner of a property is, of course, free to go into business with a market player. Then there is no task for the government to make special demands. The question is whether a corporation is allowed to exploit such a property if a market participant is interested. If a corporation says it's really going to help the municipality by using that 50% and a market player says it's only doing it with much less, it would be illogical to grant the market party an exemption. After all, it does not really make a contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u50	It was the other way around. Housing corporations are not allowed to do so under the law adopted two years ago in response to all the abuses in the corporate sector. Now this law exempts companies from doing so if there is no market player, with the addition of "minimum 50% status holders." Those at least 50% status holders could therefore provide an incentive to allow the corporations to do it properly. The essence of my question was how the Minister handled it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u51	In a way, Mr Koolmees is right in saying that this can be an incentive for corporations to do it. However, that incentive is logically linked to the fact that you are taking this measure because there seems to be a shortage of housing for status holders. It is in fact the middle between no market test at all, as some here argue, and prohibit everything from housing corporations, which in this particular circumstance would also be an unwise choice. I come to Mr Ronnes' questions. I have addressed his concerns about repression in detail. His amendment concerns the Housing Act. So I would actually ask him to keep that until the Housing Act is dealt with, so that we can assess it in conjunction at that time. I assume that will be dealt with soon, because that bill is already in the Chamber. Mr Ronnes asked why the number of status holders is not estimated for several years. For the same reason why I cannot promise Mr Bashir that the number of people in asylum-seekers centres will be zero, I cannot make an estimate of status holders for several years either. I am not talking about the political situation in Syria, Iraq and Eritrea. That is inevitably a moving process. Mr Ronnes also asks why this law is temporary and whether the problem has been resolved after five years. I sincerely hope for the latter, but I can't guarantee it. The temporaryity of the law is that, as I said at the beginning of my speech, by investing in other people's buildings, real money for social housing disappears. You've really lost it. You make a shower, a toilet and other facilities in someone else's building. The money you use for this, you can no longer invest in new social housing and therefore not in your core tasks. So it is displacement, which Mr Ronnes does not want. As far as I am concerned, it is a useful addition to the instruments, but I would certainly not want to make it structural that Community money is invested in other people's premises. I have already discussed the progress of the grant measures in dealing with Mr Madlener's questions. Mr Brouwer is concerned about the speed with which residence becomes available to status holders. It is fitting and measuring. You cannot expect a country to permanently empty a stock of social housing for the moment that another refugee crisis is breaking out somewhere in the world. Of course, the whole of the Netherlands would then look at all those social rental homes that are kept empty. At the time of such a crisis, there is a great deal of demand from all Dutch people. This will certainly be very visible in the housing market. That is why we have taken additional measures with this subsidy scheme, that we have taken additional measures with this law and that we have an administrative agreement with the municipalities. However, I agree with Mr Brouwer that we should keep our finger on the pulse. In an earlier debate I promised the Chamber that in May the results of another intermediate measurement of progress would be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u52	I've been standing here a while, but you were talking, Mr. Chairman. I am particularly concerned about the point I raised about the market test. I wanted to bring this up at the Minister's introduction, but you said at that time that it would be better to do so later in the debate. The Minister has already dealt with the questions raised by Mr Bashir. I expected him to do that again in response to my questions. I agree with him that what the market can do must be left to the market. However, you can see that it is not picked up in the housing of status holders. Azc's filling up. The flow to homes for status holders does not create any problems. There's not enough flow. You can win a lot of time by excluding the housing of that particular group from the market test.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u53	Can Mr Ronnes tell me how he knows that it is not being picked up by the market, while I have informed the Chamber that most of the applications for subsidies come from market players?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u54	I mean by saying that the figures show that the numbers of status holders in the azc's are still high and that the flow is simply not getting going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u55	That's not about the role of the market. This is about the insufficient rapid release of both the supply from the market and housing companies, but that is not about the role of the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u56	However, by making an exception in that market test for specific housing of status holders, you can ensure that these corporations can start building the homes that are needed earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u57	This is a very short market test. It is really just writing out the question in the municipality: who is interested in renting office building or former retirement home X to at least 50% status holders? That's a very short procedure. There is now no market test for this purpose and housing corporations can and should simply be able to play their role in housing status holders. We are now finding ourselves lagging behind. We're not gonna tell each other that a procedure that isn't there yet explains the delay that there is now. ... I'm just gonna drop a silence. That was Mr Ronnes' suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u58	I have already given Mr Ronnes the floor three times, but if the Minister drops such a dramatic silence, he will have the floor for the fourth time for a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u59	It is strange that we only hear from the field that this market test is seen as a huge delay in the process of obtaining housing for status holders. I still find it remarkable that the Minister says that this is apparently not the case. He says it's a very simple thing. However, we hear from both municipalities and corporations that this market test is really an extra bottleneck when it comes to increasing housing for status holders. I continue to find that difference remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u60	But now I recognize it. That market test was passed in the Housing Act because of what went wrong with commercial and non-business activities of housing corporations. From the outset, however, there was opposition from corporations and municipalities to this market test. Many of the corporations liked to engage in commercial activities with community money, but it has become a tragedy. The Court of Auditors has shown that this has resulted in an incredibly high amount of money being squandered. There were hundreds of millions of people involved. Municipalities also liked it, because they had a party with the housing corporations who, with state guarantees, wanted to build up the land that municipalities had bought too expensive, and who was going to do all kinds of projects for the municipalities that aldermen liked, but which were not responsible for business. That's why we introduced that market test. It is therefore not surprising that the parties who have been so keen to play a role in that market without running any risks are still opposed to that market test. They take every opportunity to express that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u61	I see that Mr Ronnes wants to respond to this again, but we are not going to do that. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u62	I was there to answer Mr Brouwer's questions. He also had questions about the market test. I have just gone into that in detail. He also talked about the way in which 50% of licence holders are dealt with and the maximum of €10,000. I hope that I have answered the questions on this earlier in the debate. As an example, he mentioned the municipality of Eelde. That example seems to me, on the basis of his description, to fit in perfectly with what we are promoting here. It seems to indicate that it was possible there without this change of law. I recognize that. However, in the administrative agreement I was asked to implement this extension. So that's what I'm doing. Converting empty buildings into living space is a major social gain. With this I hope to have answered the questions from the first term of the Chamber, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u63	Thank you. Let's start with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u64	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Brouwer. He has heard; he will have to work himself the hawiewawie. Moreover, I mentioned all the work done by the mayors and aldermen. In fact, a great deal has happened in recent times. I did notice in the first period that there was a lot of pain behind the housing market. People feel affected in their security about their home, their living environment and their income. This has nothing to do with this bill, but it is the sentiment that prevails on the issue of housing status holders. This situation really doesn't get any better if the SP does its best to drive status holders off the canal belt and move to Groningen and Friesland. We must make every effort here to provide people with new guarantees and to ensure that the flow of social rents starts and new homes are added in the free rental sector, so that you know that a property is available when you move. Anyway, that has nothing to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u65	If I understand correctly, the VVD wants to collect status holders on the canal belt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u66	It bothers me very much that the big cities are not doing anything about the task. We get angry letters and the board agreement threatens to be torn apart by the G-4. It's a gotsp!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u67	In the big cities we have long waiting lists.. people have to wait on average seven or eight years and here and there even eleven years for a home................................................................................................................................................................... I really can't understand why the VVD would be in the front row to make the waiting lists in the big cities even longer. Why can't we fill the places that are free elsewhere in the country with people who are now looking for a home?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u68	I find it a bit difficult that every time we talk about plans to increase the number of homes in Amsterdam and Utrecht, the SP shouts loudly that it is not such a problem, and at the time we are talking about these kinds of subjects, there are suddenly waiting lists of eleven years. You can't unite that with each other. I don't take care of the SP saying, "Send them to Groningen and Friesland." There are no jobs there, and the Minister has just said that, and the pressure on these villages is not acceptable. Apparently, the SP will take care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u69	While the VVD is talking, the SP is building in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u70	Well, I'll take that for a heads-up. I'd like to look forward to the result. There's one more question that hasn't been fully answered. This follows on from Mr Koolmees' question on the 50%. There comes a time when you have less than 50% status holders and the corporation can't do its job anymore. What happens at that time? The corporation must withdraw, but there is no market player, as the market test has shown. Can the Minister comment on this? Mr Ronnes' amendment looks sympathetic, but with Mr Ronnes' explanation that he wants more social housing, I cannot ignore it. Maybe he wants to keep it until we talk about removing the primacy rule, so that we can at least treat it as one package.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot to build. There's a lot to build. We have a lot of waiting lists in the Netherlands. There are Dutch on those waiting lists, but also people with priority positions. We can build and the money for that is there: the landlord levy that is now disappearing in the Minister's greenhouse could otherwise have been used to deal with the waiting lists. I find it disappointing that a liberal minister who used to act as a VVD against tax is now so hard defending the landlord's tax. I'm filing two motions. In the first I propose not to apply the market test, because it costs money, creates bureaucracy and does not help to promote speed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more housing needs to be built quickly and this should not be hampered by bureaucracy;]] [[noting that the government intends to allow a lighter form of a market test for municipalities in the General Measure of Governance in relation to the temporary expansion of the working area of authorised institutions with a view to housing licence holders;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from including a market test in any form whatsoever in the General Measure on the timeliness of the temporary extension of the scope of work of authorised institutions with a view to housing licence holders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and more residential residents, such as psychiatric patients, elderly people and licence holders, are entitled to a social housing;]] [[noting that, in particular, cities with the longest waiting lists for social housing should host the majority of licence holders;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with municipalities, to achieve a more balanced distribution of licence holders, including other characteristics, such as population composition, labour market situation and the availability of housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34403-10]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34403-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u72	With that last motion, we're preventing the waiting lists from getting any longer than they already are. We will ensure a better spread across the Netherlands, which will benefit migration at the same time. After all, if a status holder gets in touch with the ordinary indigenous population more quickly, he will also integrate faster than if he stays in the big cities together with other status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u73	Mr. Chairman. Today, again, it appears that the Freedom Party is the only party that wants to tackle the problem of all those asylum seekers at the source. That means we have to close our borders, but we don't. The government says again: that is something that is happening in Syria, we cannot do anything about it. At the same time, we see that the Netherlands is one of the most popular countries to go to. The asylum seekers do not go to Saudi Arabia or stay in Turkey. No, they're going to Holland. I understand that, because the government is doing everything it can to make the asylum seekers very comfortable, even though there are 35,000 Dutch homeless people, elderly people are in trouble, many people are unemployed, also elderly people, they are no longer in prison and so many people are in an overpriced rental house. The government is merely facilitating more immigration. We see the result: The Netherlands is very popular as a destination for lucky seekers. Unfortunately, the PVV is the only one who does anything about it. I therefore hope for rapid elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u74	I have noted a few things that Mr Madlener raises: 35,000 homeless people, the elderly, the unemployed, people facing high rents. The SP is also committed to these points. However, where we are proposing to do something about it, Mr Madlener is merely saying a little bit, but no proposals to do anything about it. Why does Mr Madlener not table any motions or amendments to this bill in order to do something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u75	We want to tackle the problem at source. This means that the Netherlands is not a refuge for all lucky seekers in the world. We have to go back to guarding our own borders. We've filed such motions countless times. I think even Mr Bashir should acknowledge that. No, the SP looks away and says: The Netherlands must remain attractive to asylum seekers; all come to the Netherlands. With that, she leaves a lot of people in the cold. That's what the SP does. I say take it at the source.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u76	Then Mr Madlener could have put forward a concrete proposal here to close the borders. I didn't see that. Anyone can table a motion stating that the borders must be closed, but work it out now! Let's see how you want to close the borders. Even a member of the Parliament of the PVV I just mentioned him: Mr Bosma said that we cannot close the borders because there are no borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u77	It's gonna be funny now. While the SP leaves its own supporters completely in the cold and says "come all the way to the Netherlands; we'll arrange good housing for you and it may cost nothing," she's now going to blame the PVV for not proposing to close the borders. I don't know if I should take this seriously. I think it's Mr Bashir's joke. Anyway, I'll leave that to the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u78	May I respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u79	No, you've been there three times, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u80	Listen to me. This isn't a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u81	No, no, no, no. I'm not gonna listen to you. We're gonna listen to the next speaker. That's Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u82	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. D66 believes that there should be built, for the elimination of waiting lists and certainly also for the housing of status holders. I would like to send a remarkable signal to Mr Bashir. Recently we had here in the Chamber the supervisor on the housing corporations, the WSW, visiting. That supervisor actually called on the corporations to invest, because there is financial space and because there is a need to invest. I would like to draw Mr Bashir's attention to this remarkable signal once again. In the first period, I raised three points in relation to this law, namely the 50%, the market test and the spread. I am satisfied with the response I have received. D66 will also support this law. Finally, I would like to call on the Minister to start working on housing for status holders. That is good for integration, for the chance of a job and for getting rid of the waiting lists in the azc's. That is the prime objective of this minister for the coming year. But we are not there yet, as the letter from the aldermen of the big four cities shows. We will also have to invest in education, language learning and integration. The aldermen of the G-4 rightly call attention to this. I also find it striking that Mr Van der Linde of the VVD reacts so negatively, while the VVD sits in three of the four cities in the college. Perhaps Mr Van der Linde should read the letter again and decide to invest. This way you prevent a welfare explosion in ten years' time and make sure that people are at work and integrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u83	Mr. Chairman. I too congratulate Mr Brouwer on his maiden speech. I would like to thank the Minister for his first answer. I will continue with the amendment on displacement until the debate on urgency. I will not table the motion announced on the market test because I am a co-signatory of a motion tabled by Mr Bashir on this matter. I would like to make one more point, namely the use of the fund for housing status holders. It's the 87.5 million. It is still unclear to us how there may be too little movement in the use of that fund. I shall table the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities, corporations and landlords may apply for a grant for the construction of accommodation facilities for refugees with a status of residence;]] [[whereas EUR 87.5 million is available, but only a limited part of it has been requested while the urgency is high;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to promote the use of this subsidy scheme and to inform the Court of Justice about it before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34403-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr. Chairman. We are facing a great challenge, as we have seen in the meantime. With this bill, that task can be reduced a little bit. It is one of the different ways in which this can be done. We welcome the Minister's response. As has been said, we support this proposal, but we will do it even more firmly now because we are satisfied with the answers. It needs to be dealt with in different ways. The offices and other buildings must be made fit. That is the proposal. At the same time, independent living spaces must be created in order to find solutions for some licence holders and as a third, there is the construction of new homes. I also asked a question about the new homes. Maybe the Minister can tell us what's going on with that. We wonder if that will happen soon enough. We also believe that nothing should be poured into concrete. We are going to start with these conditions, but let us come back and evaluate them regularly, because this is an urgent problem. If we have to adjust, we also want to be able to adjust. Finally. It is not the municipality of Eelde but Tynaarlo, but that is a small thing. But thank you, because I will tell you that other municipalities in the north of the Netherlands and elsewhere can also set up intermediate facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you for your second term. The Minister can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u86	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde asked me one more question: what happens when the number of status holders falls below 50% in a project, when that was the case at the start? In this case, this will become visible to the Authority's housing corporations, as this is reported annually. The authority will then ask whether there is still a mandate in that municipality, because it may be..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If the target is no longer required, it may fall below 50%. If the task is still required, the Authority may use the instrument of the designation to oblige the corporation to bring the percentage back above 50. In the Bashir/Ronnes motion to item No. 10 is asked not to do a market test. I have already said in my speech that I think it is really very unwise to exclude the market, because this leads to a greater profession and therefore also to a reduction in spending opportunities for housing corporations. I still understand Mr Bashir's signature, but Mr Ronnes's, in view of his argument that this displacement must be combated. I urge the House not to burden this law, which is actually about a different subject from the market test, with this market test discussion. I hope to be able to implement this law, but if there are components in it that I find contrary to my policy, the government can conclude that we should not implement the law. I would be very sorry to do that, because the intention was precisely to comply with an agreement in the administrative agreement. I therefore propose to Mr Bashir and Mr Ronnes to withdraw the motion. The motion in part No. I believe that Mr Bashir has already submitted his report before. It calls for a different allocation of status holders over the municipalities than on the basis of the population and to do so in consultation with the VNG. I have said in this debate and also before that there is no need for this at the UNG. The VNG confirms time and time again the current distribution based on the population figure to find the right one. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Mr Madlener was rather dissatisfied with my answer. He says the government doesn't do anything. I'm very much fighting that. There is a whole palette of measures on the housing market. The Dutch Government, and in particular the Prime Minister, has played a crucial role in the agreements reached at European level and with Turkey, which have a major impact on the influx of refugees and on the distribution in Europe and which will ultimately have a major impact on the need for housing and other facilities in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u87	The government is taking everything out of the closet to apprehend asylum seekers. Education, care, everything gets to the asylum seekers. I always wonder whether countries such as Romania or Albania are doing the same. We hear over and over again that they all want to go to the Netherlands, Germany and Sweden, just to the countries that are doing so well. So it has a huge sucking effect. A lot of countries think: we don't do it, because then they go to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u88	The Netherlands abides by the treaties. This means that the Netherlands provides shelter, at least for the period needed, to people who rightly call for refugee status here because they have to fear for their lives. This includes the facilities needed for a dignified existence. It is the great wish of the Netherlands that all countries comply with these conventions. The world is not perfect, but it is also not perfect when the Netherlands does not abide by treaties. On the contrary, the solution to the problem lies very strongly in new international agreements of the kind which the Dutch Prime Minister has taken the lead in, agreements which, by now, lead to considerably less influx of new refugees along Greece's route. This will reduce the problem of housing and other problems in the Netherlands. Mr Koolmees was satisfied with the answers. He was right to say that the Social Housing Guarantee Fund finds that there is still room to build or to invest in the existing stock, or at least that there is still investment capacity in housing corporations. That is an additional argument to Mr Ronnes: the delay can have nothing to do with a law that is not there yet. There's real investment capacity. Municipalities must make land available and add procedures smoothly. The hand can really be beaten to the plow. Mr Koolmees responded to the G-4's call for money. He knows with me that such an appeal in times of negotiation is often found in the newspaper, but I also know him as a financially sound MP, who will realize that we do not just have large stocks of extra money and that we want to have real discussions with the G-4 and the other municipalities. Mr Ronnes maintains his amendment until the Housing Act is dealt with. I thank him for that, because this seems to me to be the right place. In his motion in part No. 12 Mr Ronnes noted that the subsidy scheme was underused. I just don't share that analysis with him. The scheme was opened on 1 February, less than three months old, and is currently used for 10%. You can't say she's underused. The investigation that Mr. Ronnes is asking for, we're doing. Together with the VNG, we constantly keep our finger on the pulse. Therefore, I see no reason to consider how to adapt this regulation. That there is always a desire to get more money out of the tax post in an easier way is a bit inevitable. I would ask Mr Ronnes to review the exhaustion with me in a few months' time. If there is reason to do so, it makes sense to look at the scheme again critically. Now it's really too early for that. On balance, I must discourage this motion. Mr Brouwer asked about the new building of houses. As far as the subsidy scheme is concerned, I have indicated that there are plans for new construction. Every year the housing corporations announce what their planned new construction production is. We'll share it with the Room, too. As part of the motion tabled by his colleague, Mr De Vries, I promised to give an idea of where the bottlenecks are and where construction projects are to be made before the summer. This will enable us to see whether this will give rise to additional action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u89	On Tuesday we will vote on the motions and on the bill. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his presence.
