ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome Mrs Pia Dijkstra. She is supported in the defence of the initiative proposal by Sophie Meijer, policy officer at the D66 Group; also welcome. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. It shall act as an adviser to the Chamber in the consideration of this bill. Today the answer is in the second term and the third period, as requested last Tuesday in the order of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. For the outside world, it sometimes seems like we disagree in the Chamber about organ donation. The emotions about that can rise high. But there is one big and important common denominator: we all feel that too many people die every year waiting for a donor organ. We agree on this, as well as on the fact that too many potential donors are lost because people have not made a choice. So we've all been looking at how best to do that. Although the active donor registration system that exists today is not an end in itself, it is of course a means. For me, it's the tool that makes it easier to become an organ donor. More than 60% of Dutch people want to become donors, but a large part of them are not registered. So it's not known what these people want. Talking to that big group is what I've got in mind. At the same time, this means that people who do not want to become donors have to do something about it. Does that make me uncomfortable? Honestly, yes, I'm uncomfortable with that, too. But I have come to an understanding and can justify it. In the current system, too, you have to do something not to become a donor, by making your own choice of "no" or informing your next of kin about it. Moreover, the chance of ever needing an organ is many times greater than the chance of ever becoming a donor. But getting an organ requires someone else's choice. Because experience has shown that almost everyone wants to receive an organ, I think you can ask people to make a choice, but on the basis of two conditions that ensure that this is done carefully. Everyone, unlike now, is explicitly informed of the consequences of non-response. Everyone is repeatedly reminded of the possibility of saying no. If you do not, then it may be assumed that you have no objection and can also be registered in that way. I'll get back to you on that. Promote that everyone becomes aware of their choice and that they can do justice to their own wishes, relieve the burden on their families and help more people on the waiting list, that is the goal. That's the point. For people on the waiting list, who sometimes have to wait for years, waiting is not a standstill but a decline. A hundred people are also taken off the list every year because they are already in too bad condition to be eligible for a transplant. After the House's second term, I have thought carefully about my proposal, and I should also like to do so. I have taken into account the questions and comments made by the various groups. The field parties, doctors, health funds and patient organisations support this proposal. A majority of the population also agree with active donor registration, according to polls every time. However, I could not count on a majority in the Chamber for the support needed to introduce this new law. More importantly, this support is needed for even greater public support. I would very much like to find that support here. That is why I wondered how I could change the proposal. The most important point from the letter of amendment I sent to the Chamber last week is that I think the Chamber will agree with me on this. Authorisation may be granted by completing and registering a donor form. Above all, we want to encourage everyone to do so. If you do not respond, you will be registered as someone who is deemed to have no objection: there will be no "yes" but "no objection" in the register. Several groups were afraid that the hard "yes" with which you had yourself registered would be undermined by my original proposal, as it were, and could lead to confusion among the next of kin. In this way the "yes" can continue to exist and these people also remain distinguishable from those who implicitly agree. This makes it clear to the next of kin how the registration was made. If next of kin have information to show that someone didn't want to be a donor, then a no objection registration of course gives rise to this. Moreover, the desire of the deceased always remains the starting point. That is also the purpose of this bill. That's the starting point: that which you want. At the same time, annual registration will continue to provide the same clarity as in the current system. As the Minister said in her first reply, yes registrations with blood, sweat and tears have been achieved. That's why she advised us to introduce a no objection category. This also offers, if necessary, the possibility of falling back on the system we now know when evaluating. That is far ahead and I must honestly say that I am convinced that this will not be necessary, but I agree with the arguments put forward by colleagues on the irreversibility of my proposal. Therefore, the new variant maintains a positive aspect of the current system: the possibility of explicitly saying yes. We believe it is of the utmost importance that people's right and actual wishes are available. That is why I would like to give municipalities here a formal task. Earlier in the debate, the role of the municipality has already been discussed. I agree that this role has so far been too non-binding. My proposal includes in the law that, when applying for a passport, driving licence or identity card, adults are periodically informed about donor registration and how the donor registration can be understood and, if you wish, changed. This is done by mentioning a phone number of the donor info line. Since each adult must have at least one of these documents as a result of the identification requirement Act, the target group will be reached in this way. The reminder handed over at least every ten years, which is the least in person, will help to ensure that people's actual wishes are known; a proposal that is in line with Mr Öztürk's amendment. In that amendment, however, people only have a week to make a choice. That is the period that usually ends between applying for an identity card and collecting it. I think that's too short. I prefer the possibility to take longer time to consider, and to write to people at home several times instead of having a municipal official fill out the form after a week. Besides, I have a problem with that because it's about people's privacy. It's nobody's business how you registered. Besides, I want to make it easier for people to become an organ donor. That is why I propose a carefully non-objection system with an explicit role for municipalities, as proposed by Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	I would like to thank the initiator for having looked so carefully and thoroughly at our amendment and for meeting it. Our fundamental objection focuses on that writing. Unfortunately, there is a group of people in the Netherlands who do not open, cannot or will not read the letters from the government, does not understand. That writing restricts people's right to self-determination and we want to find a solution to that by submitting this choice to them orally or via video images.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	I indicated that last time. The information and information to be provided when this bill is adopted is very broad. This group, which Mrs Bruins Slot has also expressed concern about, should also be included. He's very important in this whole information campaign. If my bill is passed, you'll see that people come to town hall regularly. It's every ten years when you only have one of those papers, but when you have more, you get there more often. That remains the moment when people need to get a form with information and a phone number. I don't think you should rule by law exactly how you do it, but people who don't master the Dutch language well or are low-lettered should be approached with visual and sound material, also at the town halls.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	In the past, action by the Minister has also shown that it has not been possible to reach this target group. This group is hard to reach. There is a need to work intensively on this with modern techniques and footage. Is there specific scope for this in the legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	I'm just looking at the role of municipalities that need to inform people, that need to hand over information. That is, of course, done in writing. I understand that Mr Öztürk is asking if that is enough. I have already said in the first term that I have been in conversation with the Stichting Lezen & Writing, which deals with this low literacy. There are a lot of possibilities to reach that group. That is far from being sufficiently used. People who wait in town halls often get to see something there. You can imagine that there is information in the picture to explain exactly what this is about. We must have an information campaign and we must also communicate so much through social media that it is almost impossible not to get the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	I've been talking about the campaign. It is clear that I am well aware that this is a radical change that affects everyone in the Netherlands. As far as I am concerned, a legal duty to provide information is not an unnecessary luxury. For this reason, it has now been included that adequate information on the implementation of the active donor registration system should be provided in a timely manner. Of course it should focus on explaining the new way of registering in the Netherlands. If a person fails to respond to the call to record a choice of organ donation, the person is registered as a person who does not object to organ donation. It will be agreed with me that it is of the utmost importance that everyone should be informed of this before the law enters into force. I just mentioned all the low-lettered ones and the way you could achieve them. I also mentioned those people who do not have sufficient knowledge of the Dutch language. I have, of course, also looked at Mrs Wolbert's amendment and Mr Van Gerven's motion. I strongly recommend it because it is well regulated. I also know that colleagues were concerned about the willless. I too believe that we should be careful on this point. The law already states that if it becomes clear that someone is incompetent, the registration by the legal representative or in his absence must be confirmed by the next of kin. If they cannot be achieved, there will be no donation. In order to remove doubts and concerns on this point, it is proposed to introduce an obligation of amendment into the law. It obliges doctors to check what they are doing now, by the way, whether there is no question of someone who is incompetent. A doctor is able to do this because patients are already known somewhere, to doctors or hospitals, and are brought in under the supervision of someone. Contacts are being made with the next of kin and the GP. If someone comes in whose name and identity are not known, then it is not possible to look in the register for who it is and there will be no donation. Doctors know who they are and from now on they also have a legal obligation to ensure that someone is willingly qualified. I would like to conclude by thanking colleagues in the Chamber for their feedback. It has ensured that there is now an amended proposal. I would also like to thank you for the motions that have been tabled. I do not need to comment formally on this because motions are made to the government. However, I would like to emphasise that I think it is important that we continue to focus on awareness and good information. We must also make the most of technological developments, which have also been discussed. For the sake of completeness, I would add that the Dutch Transplantation Foundation has written in its position paper that these developments are going to take at least ten years. The urgency to change has been there for years. Actually, there is more than ever at the moment, because instead of an ascending line in the number of registrations and transplants, we are now seeing a downward line. Yesterday it became known that the waiting list has grown. The number of transplants and donors decreased by 16% compared to last year. In the first period, Wales was mentioned, where a similar no-objection system was recently introduced, in December 2015. That's starting to pay off there. There is an ascending line; both the number of postmortem transplants and the number of transplants in life is increasing. I believe that this is also due to the positive campaign being conducted there, which was also carried out prior to the law. In the Netherlands, we are doing well in terms of living kidney donations, and we are also very proud of that, but it is clearly worse in terms of post-mortem donations than in other European countries, as the Minister also pointed out. Improving this, with the help of more registrations, is the proposal before us today. At the same time, I am convinced that we can also maintain living donations. There were some concerns expressed or which would not suffer from an amendment of the law. I don't see any reason to think that. We already have a lot of experience with living donations. It's precisely the combination that can help us get more people on the waiting list. The proposal has been amended with the help of the Chamber. I hope that translates into more support in the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mrs Pia Dijkstra. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. I've got a whole bunch of questions that I'm gonna answer. I'll try to speed it up a bit. I have already said in the first term that the cabinet is neutral in relation to this bill. The cabinet therefore expressly leaves the judgment to the Chamber. I appreciate Mrs Dijkstra's letter of amendment, because I see how it addresses a number of aspects for which specific attention has been requested in the Chamber. In the first period, I paid attention to the importance of innovation. I expect a lot of that. Currently, I have a grant application from the UMCG pending for optimization of the perfusion chamber. This shows hopeful figures on the additional number of donor lungs, 12, and donor livers, 15, which can still be made suitable for transplantation. Also, under the guidance of Erasmus MC, I received information on the latest state of play regarding a number of promising studies into new possibilities for organ improvement and generation in academic hospitals. I'm going to talk to the academic hospitals about the possible contribution of VWS to give these investigations a boost. On 1 September I received a letter from Erasmus MC, UMC Utrecht, LUMC and UMCG underlining the importance of research in the field of innovation. I say this also in response to questions from Mrs Bruins Slot: what are we doing about innovation? She also asked me to continue looking at the possibilities for organ donation in life, better information and stimulating innovation. It goes without saying that I will continue to work for this. For example, the grant scheme for life donation will be adapted as of 1 September 2016 to remove financial thresholds for life donation even more. I will also follow the current debate on the curriculum and discuss with the Secretary of State for Education how to promote organ donation in foundational education. I would like to refer to the advice of the Platform on Education2032, which was sent to the Dutch Parliament in January 2016. This opinion refers to a core curriculum, consisting of a solid basis of essential knowledge and skills to be mastered by each pupil. An important element in this is the focus on citizenship. That's incredibly important. In my opinion, organ donation could well be addressed within that citizenship component. Mr Rutte asked me whether I would like to pay attention in the information campaign to the consequences of not registering...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u11	I very much appreciate the Minister's desire to answer a question from me, but I still have a short question about her first part. It indicates that there are a number of grant applications from all kinds of UMCs to do things, for example with the perfusion chamber and other innovative things. I assume that there will be budgetary consequences, as this bill also has budgetary consequences. Is there room to do all that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u12	That depends on how big that package is. In the first place, we have indicated the budgetary consequences of the legislative proposal: 30 to 35 million. Cover must be found for this. We knew that. We already have some budget for innovations. We've already budgeted for that perfusion chamber. For the next steps we are now in the middle of an assessment of that part. I referred to the letter from the university medical centers. We're gonna have to see how big that claim is. Can we actually get that money out of the current budget? Or should extra money be added, for which, of course, coverage should also be found? The budget isn't due until Prince's Day, but there's no room for me to have anything left in a coat. If we want something, we have to look at each other how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u13	Can I conclude that there is a budgetary challenge to cover both this bill and the other innovations, apart from that perfusion chamber? Or do I say it too sharp?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u14	In part, we are already working on it, as I indicated in the first term. Whatever's going on, it's going on. We've got grant applications because we've got grant to forgive. As far as any additional ambitions are concerned, the good thing about such a debate and such an initiative proposal is that everyone in the country is completely alert and says: we are also doing something great. That depends on the level of ambition. There is always a distribution of resources in the event of scarcity. The consequence of not registering is that, should it occur, the next of kin will face a very difficult choice at a very difficult time. If the deceased and next of kin never spoke of organ donation, there is more chance that the next of kin will not give consent to organ donation. As the Chamber knows, we have launched a whole new campaign. It is therefore appropriate to examine whether we should focus on the target family next year in one of the three campaign periods. The research question is why so many relatives refuse. If you know why so many relatives refuse, you can respond to that in your campaign. During the campaign periods in April and August of this year we focused on the doubting non-registered people. Particular attention has been paid to the conversation: am I appropriate? During the Donor Week in October we focus on the positive non-registereds to register, preferably with a yes. If someone has registered, the next of kin at least know what the deceased's wish was. Another approach is to focus on the consequences of not registering. If we do so, we will put the emphasis on fears and approach the campaign from a negative point of view. This approach does not fit in with the current campaign strategy. It is based on removing wide living barriers from a positive approach with the motive to save lives. With Mrs Wolbert's amendment, she wants to lay down legally the responsibility of the public authorities for information and public campaigns on organ donations. It is mainly about providing people with clear and understandable information about what it means to make organs available to live and register as donors, and about how people can see and possibly change their registration. Mrs Wolbert also thinks it is important that people are reminded of the importance of discussing the issue with their environment. It also assumes that the necessary finances can be found within the existing framework. Much is already being done in this area. I have been in contact with the Ministry of the Interior to identify the possibility for municipalities to give the donor form more actively. Even without a legal obligation, a great deal is being done to inform as closely as possible. Information to potential donors and donors in life has been reviewed and improved this year together with the NTS (Dutch Transplantation Foundation). This was done following the evaluation of the Grant Scheme's lifelong donation. The information via Donorregister.nl and the registration form have also been improved, with an emphasis on the comprehensibility for the low-literate. To Mr Öztürk, I would like to say that you can see throughout health care that technical innovations can offer a huge perspective to people who cannot read or write, but also to people who are more difficult to comprehend all these difficult medical terms and all this complexity. We also see how animation videos, when people have to make a decision together about difficult medical treatment, can help people and make it very clear where they can choose between. I will come to the Öztürk amendment later, but I see much more that we are going to look more closely at these ways of informing rather than always sticking to thick letters written again. That's where we can find each other. I will come back to his amendment later. There's something else there, but I'll do it in a minute. First of all, I would like to move on to the Wolbert amendment. This year, during the first campaign, specific attention has been paid to the issue of people talking to each other about whether or not to register as donors, so that relatives are not faced with a difficult decision at an emotional moment. I think Mrs Wolbert is strengthening this amendment which we are working on. I therefore have no objection to this amendment and leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u15	Of course I'm happy about that. I also see how these campaigns are being waged at the moment. But laws, even though they have no eternity value, go a little beyond this cabinet period. My intention was precisely to provide legal guarantees for what is now being used so firmly, also for the future. I therefore welcome the Minister's assessment of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u16	I come to Mr Öztürk's amendment to item No. 12. It states that each application for a new passport or identity card must be accompanied by a donor form. Mrs. Dijkstra has already indicated how that is going. I understand the underlying thought, which I find sympathetic. We can achieve this much better with what I just said: involving people in this issue in a different way. I believe that the role of the municipalities in this amendment is becoming very important. With regard to privacy, there are serious hooks and eyes attached. Suppose someone reports they're already registered. Is the official gonna check that too? Nor do I believe that a donor form should be completed by a person other than the person concerned. I appreciate the thought behind this amendment, but I would advise against it. I'm getting to the motions. Mr Van Gerven's motion for a resolution 13 is about additional information for specific target groups. In the multi-annual communication strategy, I am already focusing on specific target groups, focusing on the target groups that are more difficult to reach. I am also working on improving information provision through the role of municipalities and healthcare providers. I find this policy support. That is why I recommend that the applicant leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 17 of Mr Dik-Faber is asked to draw up this year an action plan for organ donation which addresses the following points: improving the provision of information on what organ donation means and what choices people have and will have, once they have made a choice, the possibilities to confront people more frequently and more intrusively with the question of whether they want to be organ donors, asking this question in relation to logical contact moments with, for example, the municipality, general practitioners and health insurers, and the opportunities and opportunities available to make organ donation more discussable with relatives so that more people make a choice. These three points have our attention and are being worked on. I therefore consider the motion to support policy. I therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Rutte asked for research into promising innovations. They ask the government to consider whether there is a need for financial resources for this and, if so, what. They also asked the Court to inform it of this before the budget procedure. As I mentioned just now in the brief introduction, I think medical innovations are incredibly important, so that we have to work on them. But in the end, there's always a moment when you make trade-offs with others. I'd love to get that straight. In doing so, I will indicate what applications are under way and what the ambitions of scientists are. I will send a letter to the Chamber on this subject for the budgetary procedure, with a financial paragraph. I recommend Judgement Room. I shall now come to Mr Öztürk's motion on item No. 15 on information on the amendment on donor registration when issuing a new passport and a new identity card. As I indicated in the debate on the amendment, I see some reservations on this point. I can imagine that what Mr Öztürk said here also lends itself to a motion, namely to actually actively seek other ways of communication, at different times and much more in the visual sphere than in the reading atmosphere. But this motion, no matter how well the intentions are, I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u17	This motion is also addressed to the Council of State. The Minister may respond to this, but ultimately it is up to the Chamber. However, it is good to know how she feels about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u18	This is my first initiative proposal. Normally I say "judge chamber," but now it's a bit hannessed. But by doing so one learns. In the Öztürk motion to item No. 14 The government is invited to point out not only the need for more organ donors in the information on organ donation, but also the circumstances in which organ donors can be used and the way in which they do so. We're busy improving communication. We are working on a multi-annual campaign, researching ways to include information on organ donation in the curriculum in schools, and we are working to strengthen the role of both municipalities and healthcare providers in the provision of information. I myself prefer to run the proposed campaign now and, if necessary, to have these aspects deal with later. Then the motion Rutte/Browns Slot in part No. 18 on the realisation of adapted health care standards for transplant medicine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u19	I would like to come back to information. People have the right to know how organ donation takes place and under what circumstances. I think a lot of people in this Chamber, too, do not know how it all works. That can influence someone's decision-making and motivate or not motivate him. I think it is important that the government gives the right information so that a good choice can be made. I don't think it's right to postpone it until later. You need to keep people informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u20	This is about the motion in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u21	I think that information should be readily available, but I wonder whether it should be given in such a public campaign, for example, in a commercial of a few minutes. It is very difficult to get such a complicated message out of the way. I think that's really an impossible task. I do agree with Mr Öztürk that if people want to know how things are going, we need to make sure that this information is available. If that's what he means by his motion, I can support it, because I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u22	The Minister spoke to me about modern technology, the modern means of communication. We are a party that communicates well. We're the best on Facebook, I saw it on RTL. There are ways to quickly inform people about how it works through digital forums. People have a right to that, too. I think that if we expect such an important decision from someone, we should also inform people as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u23	I agree that this information should be available. It can be done in different forms. This can be done in written form for those who want it, and we can also see if we can do it in other ways. However, the public campaign is aimed at starting the conversation. Then we can say to people who do want to be donors, but have not yet registered, if you are positive about them, please register. This is going to happen this autumn in the donor week; in the spring we talked about it. To make this go through, I'm really not for that. That's not part of the plan I've discussed with the Chamber before. That is my reason to discourage the motion, not because the information should not be available. The request in the Rutte/Bruins motion for a resolution 18 is to promote the implementation of the adapted standards of care for transplant medicine where possible and to inform this year's Board of Budget Treatment about progress. Much is currently being done in this area. For example, there is already a national standard for mobile perfusion pumps for the transport of kidneys. I've asked the NTS to make arrangements within the national organ transfer with relevant hospitals about the availability and deployment of perfusion. At the moment, there is a grant application from the UMCG for evaluation at our ministry, which will enable the national deployment of the perfusion chamber in the UMCG. The Erasmus MC has also informed me in writing of its intention to respond actively to this development by agreeing with other transplant centres on the use of perfusion. I leave the judgment on this motion, as you have probably been able to derive from my text, so please leave it to the Chamber. I think I'm done with the questions and the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u24	We are now coming to the end of the second term. We have an incredibly long period of thought behind us. An action plan has been drawn up and the bill is now before us. In the first term, the Minister had expressed a number of reservations and reservations. During the summer recess, the initiator started working with her objections and those of the Chamber. Does the Minister consider the proposal now before us to be an improvement? If so, how would she describe this improvement? I am very curious to know what its opinion would be if this proposal were to be adopted. Does she see this as an opportunity to tackle the poignant problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u25	In the first period, I made comments, no more than that. I understand from the debate that you saw something different, but the comments were intended as comments. The cabinet is neutral. That is an agreement from the coalition agreement, and I am very committed to it. I have not begun to express my appreciation of the letter of amendment for nothing today. I would not do that if I thought it would be a deterioration of the initiative proposal. As far as I'm concerned, it's an improvement. My opinion remains neutral; that is a political agreement that is set out in the coalition agreement concluded with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u26	I very much appreciate the Minister's attitude. I think that is also important, because it will soon be very sharp. Assuming that this bill is successful, it is very important that we then motivate all those who are waiting for it and the field, from which many positive signals have come as a result of the amendment, with all the strength to ensure that the law becomes a success. I hope and test from the Minister's words that this improvement, although neutral as a minister, will give her a handle on how to work with patient organisations, with specialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u27	Of course. If this initiative law is passed, I will do everything I can to make it work. If the law is not passed, I will also do everything I can to increase the number of organ donors. I also very much appreciate that Mrs Dijkstra started the way she started. I think it is very important to note with each other that everyone in this Chamber is not yet saying: everyone in society has a warm heart for this. Everyone makes their own considerations. So I think that this is also a very important start to the conversation that we are having with each other. Whatever the outcome for me, I will at least do my utmost to achieve maximum results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u28	Before we proceed with the third term, I would like to discuss briefly with the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u29	We will continue with the third term from the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Dijkstra for her second-term replies and for the adjustments she has made to her legislative proposal in response to the deadlines. She has clearly listened to the introduction of the political groups in the first and second periods, with all the questions and doubts that are still alive. After my earlier input, there will be no doubt that I am in favour of the proposed change in the system of organ donation. In my opinion, it is a solution to the shortage of organ donors, which continues to exist. The amendments to the proposal have strengthened me again, but I have also raised critical questions, for example about the specific group of people with reduced will. How is their registrations handled? Among other things, in this context, I have tabled a motion calling on the government to pay particular attention to information to these target groups in its information and public campaigns and to require the municipalities to be more alert to this. I am pleased that this is given extra attention in the amended proposal, also because doctors are given a more important role in this. The proposal has also been adapted to include people with intellectual disabilities or dementia. First, the legal representative must confirm that the deceased really wanted this; otherwise it will not happen. Even though I didn't pay much attention to it, the distinction between 'yes' and 'no objection' now removes many doubts and uncertainties. Just to be sure, I would like to comment on the following three points. It is now being built in that people who do not respond will be registered as non-objections. In these cases, is the opinion of the family and next of kin taken differently from those registered as "yes" after death? Information is being disseminated more actively. When issuing driving licences and the like you will be extra informed. Isn't it true that this applies to everyone, no matter how someone is already registered? In the new proposal, the new mayor will be responsible for the information, while the information documents will be made available by the VWS Ministry. If I understand correctly, the ways in which municipalities want to pay attention to organ donation may vary. Perhaps one municipality strictly restricts itself to providing information when issuing a passport, while another municipality uses other methods. I think it would be useful for municipalities to share such creative approaches. I'd like to hear what the applicant thinks about this. This debate is historic. It is about increasing the number of donors in the Netherlands. This debate has been going on for decades. We are now facing a split: which way is it going? Is the current legislation in place or are we opting for the active donor registration system? On such an ethical issue, it is important that all Members of Parliament are free to decide their choice. I will ask my group members to vote in favour of this bill, i.e. for active donor registration. For all of them, however, voting in favour or against is a personal consideration which they will take freely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. Ours, I mean us as politicians, is sometimes accused of making laws that nobody is waiting for, without listening to civil society. But one thing is certain: that does not apply to this bill. The doctors who work in intensive care and have to ask the relatives daily to make a very difficult decision see this proposal as a major improvement, as do the transplant doctors, the health funds and the patient organisations concerned. In society, too, active donor registration is preferred than the current system. The basis for putting this new bill into practice and for it to succeed is therefore there; now the political majority. In my second term, I expressed the hope that if the initiator, Mrs Dijkstra, took a step in your direction, you would not take a step backwards. That is the hope I am expressing again today in the direction of those who still have doubts about it. The initiator has just explained why she has amended her bill. She thus responds to concerns, partly justified concerns, who lived in the Chamber. I therefore hope that you will take a step towards the new system. This is a bold step, but it is a step that can count on support in society, and therefore has the best chance of success in helping more patients on the waiting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr. Chairman. We appreciate the adjustments and concessions made by the initiator, Mrs Dijkstra. However, our fundamental objection to the D66 proposal has not yet been fully resolved. D66 wants citizens to be automatically registered as organ donors if they do not voluntarily pass on their choice. If you don't respond to government letters, your organs will become state property. That's going a little too far. The proposal is now 'no objection', but still. DENK stands up for the millions of people who can be the victims of this system: the people who do not respond to the government letters. These are, for example, the 1 million functional illiterates in the Netherlands, the people who do not read the government's letters because they distrust the government or the people who do not have their administration in order. Those are people who could be an organ donor against their own will. Not everyone in the Netherlands is the tightly organized model citizen of whom the bureaucracy originates. DENK has also presented an alternative whereby every citizen is informed orally with images every five or ten years to become an organ donor. I can see that the initiator has been somewhat pleased with us on this point, but it is still written. We just wanted to get rid of that writing. On the contrary, we wanted to inform our citizens properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u33	Before I give the floor to Mr Pechtold, I have already said this, and Mr Öztürk knows that the Chamber knows no DENK, but the Kuzu/Öztürk Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u34	The whole of the Netherlands knows DENK nowadays. Since last night I think even more, but well...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u36	I have listened very carefully to Mr Öztürk's objections in both periods, but if I hear him summarize them now, there is some contradiction for me. He says: we have to go to extremes to reach the people, but there are people who do not want or cannot have contact with the government. That's entirely driven by the idea that that's why you couldn't register as an organ donor, but I think that the very same group is incredibly in touch with the government, about a lot of regulations, about a lot of help and about a lot of things that the government, we as a society, supports this group, and that's all individuals with different reasons why they're in that situation. Can't you as a government make an extreme effort to involve these people socially in such an important thing as organ donation? Doesn't the same group know when an organ is needed, to reach the government and society to get such a body?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u37	I go very far with Mr Pechtold, but the fact remains that, even if you don't have any letters from the government or are not the model citizen everyone assumes, you have the right that someone else doesn't decide about you. That's a fundamental thing. We wanted to solve that fundamental problem by informing citizens in every conversation with the municipality, one-on-one, oral and video footage and material so that someone at home can think for a week. However, I find that there is apparently little money, little resources or little support for this in the Chamber. That group that needs it should perhaps be able to achieve it with a little more resources. And we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u38	This is precisely the nod in the reasoning from where I don't understand it anymore, but perhaps Mr Öztürk can help me in that. In fact, Mr Öztürk says: if the initiator, together with the Minister and a few colleagues, who call for this in a motion, has sufficient financial resources for almost waterproof information, then the fundamental concerns will be removed. If that is the problem, I think we can get Mr Öztürk out of it. Everyone, even the Minister just now, has indicated that he wants to go to the extreme. Perhaps not everything can be told in everyone's campaign jar of 30 seconds, but there are, of course, a lot of opportunities to give that information, on websites or in the municipalities, as Mr Öztürk rightly pointed out. I am trying to do a hand-out to see if Mr Öztürk is prepared to resolve the practical issues with me, where he abandons the objections of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u39	At a time when every citizen who goes to the municipality, once a year, every five years or every ten years, is confronted with one-on-one, is questioned and is given material, so that he can think about it for a week and make a decision later, I say yes. So if the guarantee is given that every citizen in the Netherlands is informed one-on-one, gets material, gets information and gets video footage and can think about it for a week, yes, we can find each other. But I do not get that guarantee because there are a number of objections about the resources. The Minister says that we are going to provide information and information, but not every information reaches the target group we are talking about. The conversation at the municipality, on the other hand, takes place one-on-one and reaches every citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u40	I understand Mr Öztürk's need to formalise it somewhere in one place. But I wonder what would be a suitable place for that. I recently extended my passport. That official was not trained to discuss this with me in principle at a point of contact. However, it is possible to optimise the information. We already are, and we will improve that with this campaign. But as far as I am concerned, that one-to-one conversation should always take place for everyone in, for example, the first-line office, the general practitioner's office. That's someone who knows about it, who can answer your questions, which may be very personal, in peace and quiet, and you can refer them for more information. I think we can agree, but Mr Öztürk has to move away from the idea that the municipal office is the place where we can arrange everything. You can never make a system watertight, but I'd like to think about how we can make sure that almost everyone who comes into contact with doctors, the government or anyone else, or who's just watching TV or reading something on his iPad, can get this information. That is the intention of the initiator and the Minister, and that could remove Mr Öztürk's objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u41	In my opinion, the proposal for doctors to do it is more expensive. Isn't getting an average civil servant to provide information cost a little less than an average doctor? Let's assume that. Besides, not everyone goes to a doctor. A lot of people avoid caring and don't go to a doctor because of the high level of personal contribution. But everyone eventually has to go to the municipality to get a document. If we can agree and make the resources available, we will offer that person a watertight system. We can find each other at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u42	I share the concerns that are constantly being expressed, because the question is whether we can reach everyone. How do we achieve a system that is as watertight as possible? The proposal to deposit it with the municipalities through an oral offer is only one. I wonder whether it would be helpful for Mr Öztürk to ask the Minister to first examine what is the most effective way to reach the target group that Mr Öztürk is talking about and what I am concerned about. Perhaps we can join the offer, because it should always be the official's to have a conversation, to talk about it and to arrange it also involve a primary health role of a district nurse or another type of trusted person. It is now so close to the official, and we could first examine what is the most effective method. Would that be an option for Mr Öztürk to go along with this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u43	Then we should wait and see. If we go along with that now and we need another legislative change after the investigation, I do not think it would be wise. Mrs Wolbert is in favour of an investigation into the best, watertight and reliable means of doing it. We could vote in favour of her proposal, but then this legislation will have to wait until the end result of that study is known, because only then will we know exactly how we should do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u44	If you can be confident that the best communication-effect method, which thus reaches the target group, will be used, the legislative proposal does not have to wait as far as I am concerned. The best method could be the official who proposes Mr Öztürk, but it could also be someone else. If we investigate the most effective way, I'm confident. Sometimes you have an image in your head of the best way in advance and it turns out to work differently in practice. I am therefore giving this consideration. Let us leave the answer to the question of what is the most effective way to reach the group that Mr Öztürk and I are concerned about, to the researchers who know about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u45	I understand that, but this is far-reaching legislation. I think we should first see the results of the investigation before we establish such an important decision. Otherwise we may have to conclude afterwards that we have not made the right decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u46	But that is also the objection to your proposal. We do not know whether it is an effective method of placing this on the town hall of an official. I understand that you are making this proposal because we all know the official, but it might not be the best method. Just give us a much sharper shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u47	We could start with the municipal official and evaluate that a year later. In the meantime, we can do that research and see if there are any better methods. I'd like to take a look at that. I conclude with the alternative proposal of DENK, which I have just explained a little bit. In the form of an amendment, we have tabled a proposal for active donor registration when applying for and issuing the passport and identity card. We are curious to see what the State Council thinks of this alternative donor system. That is why, in the second term, I have tabled a motion calling on the Council of State to compare this alternative donor system with the one proposed by D66. I would like to call on colleagues to support this motion and to be open to an alternative donor system. The vote on the D66 initiative law should then be postponed until the Council of State has given its information. Maybe there's time and space to find each other somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today in a third term the bill for an active donor registration system. This shows how difficult this discussion is and how each word is reciprocated and weighed. The second letter of amendment is a clear gesture by the initiator to respond to a number of objections raised by the Court. For example, a person who doesn't want or can register is now registered as "doesn't object to donation." Indeed, that sounds better than "has consented to donation." In addition, the initiator states that this will give greater clarity to the next of kin. But really clear and closer to the truth would of course be "has made no choice as to donation." Whatever terms are chosen, the fact remains that the government here once again decides for the citizen what happens to his or her organs after death. It's still "who doesn't say anything, agrees." Imagine if we used that principle in all medical-ethical matters. Think of abortion, euthanasia or medical experiments. The PVV Group thanks the initiator for her efforts to increase the number of donors, but maintains her view that this bill is a step too far. Not wanting to make a choice can also be a choice. We do not want to deprive anyone of the right not to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u49	I have ended my third term by saying that I will present the proposal with a positive opinion to my group, but that all members of my group may vote freely, because this is an important ethical issue. It may or must be a personal consideration of each individual Member of Parliament. Will Mrs Klever present this bill to her group in this way too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u50	It is good that Mr Van Gerven is asking for this. It is also a free matter for my group. My group is generally opposed to this bill, but it may well be that someone will vote for it. I don't know. At least it's a free matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u51	Well, that's clear. That seems to me to be a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr. Chairman. The opinion of the Council of State rightly points out that the proposal for an initiative is a change of principle with regard to organ donation. The CDA prefers to see everyone registering whether they want to be organ donors. If that doesn't happen, next of kin should determine what happens to the body as soon as someone dies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u53	That's an emotional choice for the family that only she can make the best. It is not up to the State to weigh the interests of the people on this, but first of all to the next of kin. This is a breach of Article 11 of the Constitution, the right to the inviolability of the human body. Therefore, in the second period, the CDA has already indicated that there is considerable uncertainty about the effectiveness of this proposal and that there are other alternatives to achieving more organ donors. That is why the CDA also wants the Minister to investigate, implement and highlight the importance of organ donation and registration. In this way people can make an informed choice themselves and the starting point is not to make them a donor. In the second term, I also said that I, as a spokesman with my group, considered whether the objections could be remedied by tabling amendments. The CDA Group has also come to the conclusion, individually and unanimously, that it does not see this possibility. The CDA will therefore not support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u54	Thank you very much. I can now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union, but at least she is not here at the moment. Then I can give the floor to Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Chairman. Today we come to the conclusion of the examination of the D66 Initiative Act in order to create a new donor registration system. This law has been debated very intensively, not only in this house, but certainly also in the various parties and groups. Much more important is that making, filing and discussing this bill has triggered a solid social debate on organ donation. Rarely has this subject, which is literally of vital importance to many, had so much attention. Whatever the outcome of the lawsuit, that's pure profit. Just before the last part of the legal process, we received a comprehensive letter of amendment last weekend. The applicant, Mrs Dijkstra, has substantially amended her legislative proposal in a number of respects, in order to respond to the concerns expressed by a number of parties on the legislative proposal. It is very commendable that it is prepared to take these changes into account the concerns of many parties. During the first and second term discussions, on behalf of the VVD Group, I expressed my deep concern at the fact that the initial bill set out that people who do not register actively would be registered with a 'yes' in the donor register, just like those who register consciously with a 'yes'. My concern was twofold. Firstly, this method of registration could affect the control of a yes registration. Survivors would therefore have less insight than at present into the actual desire of the deceased and therefore the number of consents could decrease. Secondly, the mixing of the yes registrations would have prevented the possible reversal of the legislative amendment, even if the new system had proved to be genuinely less organ donations. Now the registration of people who do not actively register their wishes in relation to organ donation, no longer wants to register as "yes' but in a separate category "no objection', that care has been removed and that too is pure profit. The question remains how doctors and relatives will act in practice if "no objection" has been registered. Does the applicant consider how this should make a difference to the current situation in which survivors have to make a decision without registration? Are doctors going to submit the choice to next of kin in a different way? Are any of the next of kin gonna get a choice at all? It would be good if the applicant could clarify this. Then the question remains how the VVD weighs the modified bill. The VVD has always assessed the bill during the process on the basis of two criteria: self-determination and effectiveness. In this last term, I do not want to repeat the argument. That would be a repetition of events, and that is why I am keeping it brief. Still, for those who do not choose, an active choice is recorded, in this case "no objection." That is indeed difficult, even if it was only because it deprives people of the important right not to choose. My eldest daughter indicated in her own words the last time I talked about this issue. She said, "Daddy, I just find that very difficult, I want to think about it because I don't know yet." The right to doubt, the right not to choose, is and remains an essential right. This also does not meet the criterion of self-determination. People could accept this violation because the amendment is very effective, but unfortunately there are still serious doubts about its effectiveness. It is true that countries where there are more organ donors than in our country do not have an objection system, but that does not arise from investigations carried out in our country. In fact, in the Masterplan organ donation, the no-objection system has been extensively investigated and it was expressly not recommended. I quote from the report of this investigation. "Effectiveness: the number of transplants will be lower, especially with the high number of additional registered objections playing an important role. In addition, in the absence of registration, the consent rates for next of kin are lower than for most other systems." This system is the only one of the alternative systems used in other countries and it is therefore useful to quote the summary conclusion from the international comparisons of Maarse c.s.: "... that hard empirical evidence for the hypothesis that a objection system is much more effective than the consent system is lacking. Although countries with an objection system perform better than countries with a consent system, a causal link has not yet been demonstrated." The great commitment of the applicant to achieving a donor registration system that leads to more available organs for people who are waiting with a great deal of pain is very much to be praised. Unfortunately, for the majority of the VVD Group, for the reasons of principle and substance that I have just outlined, this does not lead to a positive assessment of the legislative proposal. It is up to the individual members of the group to decide on the outcome of the actual vote. A medical-ethical subject as organ donation is a free matter at the VVD, as liberals should be. That is good, because there are differences of opinion within the party on this issue. Finally. As I pointed out in my introduction, a great advantage of this legal treatment has been that more than ever has been spoken and thought about the great importance of organ donation. This enormous importance is deeply felt by all the members of the VVD Group, regardless of their opinion on the legislative proposal before us. We must not allow the judgment on this bill to be seen as a judgment for or against organ donation. This does not do justice to the subject and to the sincere individual consideration of each member in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union considers it important that more donor bodies become available in our country. The government can stimulate this much more by providing information about organ donation during logical contact moments. That's a lot more than just a flyer rack. There may be periodic active information on donor registration, for example when people apply for their passports or driving licences, until they have made their choice, a clear yes or no. The government must continue to encourage these people to make a choice. I have tabled a motion on this matter. Active information is one of the proposals adopted by the initiator in the second letter of amendment. The Christian Union appreciates the step taken by the initiator with this letter of amendment. This removes a number of practical concerns. In particular, the proposed amendment to distinguish between people who have made an active choice for donation, who thus tick "yes', and those who have not made a choice, who are "no objections', is of great importance. Practical dilemmas have not been removed either. There are 2.5 million low-lettered people in our country, people who have trouble reading letters. It cannot be ruled out that they are registered as organ donors against their will. In addition to the incompetents, there are the willless. The Christian Union believes that they should be excluded from donor registration just as they are now, because they can never see it properly. My group's point of principle is and remains that the government must encourage people to make their own choice for organ donation. The government can't make that choice for them if they haven't done so themselves. We will continue to insist that they make that choice, but people have to decide for themselves about their bodies after they die. The government can't go in there. The government can facilitate and stimulate, but donorship is about your body's death and is a matter of charity. And charity can't be enforced as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. I would like, on behalf of the Labour Party, to use this third term mainly to thank my colleagues, the initiator and not to forget the Minister for the discussion and exchange of arguments, which I believe have taken place very carefully with these difficult considerations. The Labour Party is in favour of the introduction of the ADR system. The right to self-determination, which also weighs very heavily on my party, is not harmed, while the likelihood of more donors is expected to increase. With the latest letter of amendment in the view of the Labour Party, the initiator has made significant concessions to the objections raised by the original proposal, both in terms of the obligation to amend and in terms of the non-objection registration. I therefore have no further questions. I will therefore end by expressing the deep desire that these changes will lead to a majority in favour of an active registration system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. I say first of all that I have great respect for Mrs Dijkstra's persistence, who has done everything in her power to get support for this bill. I must also say that the detailed letter of amendment responds somewhat to a number of additional objections raised by our group. However, as was clear from our earlier input, I assume, the more fundamental objection remains that the SGP Group believes that removing organs is so far-reaching as to require explicit consent. I have referred to the constitutionally enshrined right to the inviolability of the body. That is why we cannot support the legislative proposal at the end of the day. However, I believe, however it may end with this legislative proposal, that it has never been in vain for us to have had this debate. Indeed, it has strongly encouraged all parties to reflect on how to make more people an explicit choice and what more we can do to reduce waiting lists. I am well aware that, especially if you do not go in and do not feel for a system change, you take the more responsibility to keep thinking about it creatively and actively. I feel that responsibility, too. We will support all the motions that have been tabled. I have already asked the Minister's attention to the possibilities I believe to be unused in the medical offices, in order to raise the question of whether he has already made the choice, not in a compelling way, but in his personal relationship with the patient. Questions may therefore be answered. I actually see untapped possibilities there. Finally, it seems to be a bit of a thing whether this becomes a free choice in the group or not. I realized that we in our group always have a free choice, but that there is often a surprising consensus in voting behaviour. It could just be that that's no different here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u59	Thank you very much. I shall suspend the sitting until 12.30 p.m. We'll start with the arrangement of work. Then we will continue with the response of the initiator in the third term.
