ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome Minister Kamp. We have agreed that each of us will have the opportunity in this first term of office for a maximum of three interruptions in two instalments. It is a maximum, less is allowed, but of course this is a subject that affects everyone very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. There we are again, but the question is, of course, where are we now? We now know more, less gas is being extracted and the number of earthquakes has decreased. At the same time, the years weigh heavily when you come to Groningen you will see that clearly repeated damage, long negotiation about fees, concerns about the safety and merchantability of your home. I am thinking of the De Joode family who saved their monumental farm, or of Mr Nijhof whose wife couldn't handle it anymore, or of Mrs Moreel who had to leave her furniture outside for the third time. Not only the physical, but also the emotional damage. What can and should we do? First of all, less and safer winning. Secondly, make the damage settlement independent of the NAM and support residents in the process. Thirdly, to clarify quickly the safety of buildings and to improve the strengthening process. Let me say a little more about these points. First we got a ceiling of 42.5 bcm (billion cubic metres), then 39.4, then 30, then 27 and now 24. And every time the Minister said: this is really necessary for security of supply, I really cannot reduce it any further. Is 24 the minimum now? Why, when we see what has happened in recent years, should we suddenly commit ourselves for five years when new questions are still emerging and there are new insights about the safest extraction and the amount of gas needed? Why is 2015 suddenly a starting point for what we consider acceptable seismicity? I'd like to get a reaction to this. It's strange that a company responsible for pumping up gas, which causes earthquakes, is also the one that decides what damage to your home will be compensated. People don't trust that, and I can imagine. This leads to a lot of discussion and therefore the settlement of damages must really take place independently of the NAM. The National Coordinator must organise a truly independent handling. This can of course be done without writing a blank cheque, based more on trust and accountability afterwards rather than distrust towards the residents and stacks of reports beforehand. The formulation of damage protocols and the selection of damage experts should also be carried out independently and residents should be closely involved in the organisation of this process. Is the Minister prepared to give the National Coordinator Groningen a mandate for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	I know D66 as a special constitutional party. Two years ago, we made a plea to place it away from the NAM at the Centre Secure Living. Now I hear a plea to transfer it to the National Coordinator Groningen. Does D66 also support that Groningers who want to do so, for example some in a trial, simply go to court? The judge is completely independent and is still trusted in Groningen. He can make decisive statements which clearly give a direction to the following matters as well. And everything that happens there is transparent, open and searchable. We already know that process in the Netherlands and for that a specially shortened route has been set up in the northern court. Would D66 also support GroenLinks' proposal for a fund for a number of pilot processes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	Access to justice is a great asset. It must exist not only on paper, but also in practice. I hope very few people end up getting to the point where they have to go to court. After all, people are many years, a lot of energy, a lot of time and sometimes a lot of money. Let us therefore above all try to prevent people from feeling compelled to go to court, but if this need is felt, then I think that accessibility should not only be on paper, but also in practice. A proposal for a number of pilot processes may contribute to this. I will certainly examine this proposal with a very positive basic attitude, but I would like to see it on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	I think that's a nice outstretched hand of D66. In Groningen, the lead time of a case is 18 weeks. There is a precedent: the Supreme Court has already said that it does not matter whether a house is already damaged or not when it is awarded damage. So you are right out of the discussion about whether or not there is overdue maintenance on the foundations. I like to look at such a proposal with D66. This may be additional to what the National Coordinator Groningen will do. We've been at Groningen for four years now. So Groningers will not really have much faith in it if we say that something is moving fast now. I think D66 agrees with me on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	I share Mrs Van Tongeren's view that the settlement of damages must be speeded up. I do have concerns about the term Mrs Van Tongeren just mentioned when everyone is going to do this through the judge. Let us hope that we do not have to. Above all, let us make sure that this is not necessary and that people are simply helped quickly, generously and reliably without going to court. However, I also believe that the way to justice should always be accessible, not only on paper, but also in practice. Let us look together at what needs to be done. I have just mentioned a certain category of damage, in particular the minor damage. You really hope not to go to court for that. The bureaucracy for that can actually go a long way. How much money do we spend with each other on reports, even though direct repairs could take place? Of course, this includes an ex post account showing why the mining damage has been repaired. In more complex cases, it is important to take care of people. We all know the stories of the piles of reports and of the meters of files that people have had to build to deal with a complex damage. Maybe that's for some people to do right. We know the examples of this, but there are also people for whom it weighs so much that they say "I'm leaving." Of course, that cannot be the case. It should be possible for people to be taken care of if necessary. Now they only get a case manager who, fortunately, looks at what can be done with the rules in complex cases. However, I would like to make it possible for the people who need this guidance to receive legal assistance in the event of damages. The question is whether the Minister is prepared to make this possible through the National Coordinator Groningen or through initiatives such as Stut-en-Steun. People need to be clear about the safety of their homes quickly. When you go home at night, you want to make sure the place you're going is safe. It can't be that an inspector first says "oh, there's nothing wrong" that a year later is said "there's something wrong with the foundation" and that afterwards it's said "it's total loss." We have all heard about this example in Groningen. You can't do that. This reinforces my plea for independence in the settlement of the damage, but it also illustrates that people are concerned by such examples and would like to know quickly whether their home is safe or not. Can the National Coordinator Groningen, together with all the municipalities, ensure that there is at least an indicative clarity per municipality and that inspections are accelerated? In the last half minute I go into the heritage in Groningen. That is a subject that is very much at my heart. We are working together with a number of others, such as the Christian Union. Both national monuments and image-defining buildings now require owners to arrange this themselves ad hocly. There is a lack of cooperation, resources, capacity and expertise necessary for proper handling. Is the Minister prepared, with the National Coordinator Groningen, the governments and civil society organisations, to genuinely provide an area-oriented heritage protection programme? We have seen a very good example in the schools. That's where it worked well. The compliments on the way that was picked up by the schools. Could we do the same for the heritage in Groningen? That was my last question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	That's exactly five minutes on the clock. I shall now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Gas extraction attracts deep traces in Groningen and the Groningen, in their homes, in their schools and in their lives. That has to stop, and that can be done by cutting off the gas extraction. It is essential for the future of Groningen that we make phasing-out plans. Is the Minister prepared to draw up a phasing-out plan for gas extraction in Groningen during this cabinet period, including concrete action points such as a plan for gas-free neighbourhoods? I'd like a response from the Minister. To what level is gas extraction still justified? The SodM claims that in the event of an extraction of 24 billion cubic metres the risks in Groningen will remain the same, while in the case of a reduction to 21 billion the risks will be reduced. Nevertheless, the Minister is holding on to 24 billion cubs for no less than five years. Why so much? According to Gasunie Transport Services 19 to 21 billion cuub is sufficient for average winters. The Dutch gas demand is also much lower by insulation or by lowering the heating. Is the Minister gonna work on that? Is he gonna tell people by radio, TV and the Internet? I'd like a response. A decrease of only 10% can make the difference between tremors and rest. Moreover, in his letter of 12 September, the Minister himself writes that according to GTS gas production from 2020, which is already three years from now, can be reduced by 2 billion cubic metres each year. Why then stick to this maximum 24 billion cub for five years, even because the Minister has asked the NAM to calculate the social risk for the entire Groningen field? We just don't know enough about that. So there is much unknown and at the same time it is expected that in three years' time extraction will fall by 2 billion per year. Then why is the Minister making a decision for five years? I read in the documents that 21 billion cube for next year is the upper limit for responsible extraction. From 2018 onwards, we will make a new decision, if more data are available and more houses are isolated and converted. What worries me in the mining decision is the carte blanche that Shell and Exxon get to gain more gas in a colder winter than the 24 billion. Is it true that the Minister and the Chamber will only be informed three quarters of a year later, in October, about exactly how much gas has been extracted in the previous year? And is it true that the extra extraction of gas in colder winters is not linked to an extra demand, but only to the temperature? Is it true, then, that there can always theoretically be extra winning, even for resale, as long as it is cold enough, and that there is therefore no risk of flat extraction? Such a flat extraction is the urgent advice of the SodM to make gas extraction less dangerous. Additional gas extraction should only be possible if there is additional demand. And if extra wins are to be won, the Minister must inform the Chamber and the Province immediately. I'd like a response from the Minister. The relationship between the NAM and the Groningers is getting harder. Damage control isn't getting any better, it's getting worse. One neighbour will be compensated for the damage in his wall, the other neighbour will be told about the same crack in the same wall: it is not our fault, pick it out yourself. That's unacceptable. Does the Minister share that opinion? If so, what is he going to do about it? Gas extraction also causes more damage: nature and biodiversity are also damaged by gas extraction. The Deputy States of Groningen say that the impact of soil reduction by gas extraction on Natura 2000 sites has not been adequately mapped, especially for the Zuidlaardermeer. However, it is clear that this nature reserve dries through the extraction of gas. That means the NAM should have a Nature Protection Act license, but the NAM doesn't have one. The GS van Groningen has now advised the Minister to have the NAM apply for this permit. Did the Minister indeed do that? If not, why did he leave that? Is the Minister prepared to prescribe additional research into the effects on nature? The Wadden Sea, world heritage, is once again threatened by gas extraction plans: the NAM wants to drill from Friesland under the Wadden Sea. The Party for Animals believes that there should be no drilling under this vulnerable nature reserve. I would also like a response from the Minister, especially in the light of that reduced question in a few years' time. I'm gonna get to my last subject. In the previous debate, the Minister undertook to ask the SodM about the leakage of the strong greenhouse gas methane. Natural gas from the Groningen field consists of between 80 and 81% of that methane. When methane is burned, CO2 and water is produced, but not all methane is burned. Part of it leaks when it's being transported or when it's being extracted. Worldwide, this is about 1 to 3%. Even if it's about that percentage, there's a big problem. Methane is a very, very powerful greenhouse gas. That's 84 times stronger than CO2. Has the Minister got the figures ready yet? If not, at what time can the Chamber get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. I am going to go through the familiar list: the extraction, the damage and the recovery. As far as mining is concerned, I wonder when the Groningen field is empty and at what level of extraction. I see that there are very different years on this subject. Why is 24 billion cube assumed, while the foundation is shaky, as the SodM itself says? Where is the measurement and control protocol? How soon can that happen? Without such a protocol, this kind of agreement cannot actually be reached. Why isn't that nitrogen factory being built? And is the claim of energy company ENGIE correct? If that's the case, I also understand why that nitrogen plant doesn't need to be built. The SP's commitment is to sit below the 24 billion cube. If it is decided here that this should be it, do so for one year. Without a measurement and control protocol, you can't actually make a deal for five years at all. Let that measurement and control protocol also be checked by, for example, the international team that we have now put into the Mining Act. And have that ENGIE claim examined by an independent party. As far as the extraction is concerned, it's the only way down for the SP. We're going down a stairwell. The SP will also include this in its election programme, including the financial consequences of lower extraction. I'll get to the damage. Last week we had a round table. LAN director Schotman expressed his condolences at one point with Mr Nijhoff, one of the most seriously affected Groningen. I believed the private person Schotman, but I didn't believe the company he represents. With everything that NAM trains and frustrates in the field of damage registration and award, with all the self-defeated manuals and damage protocols and all the power over brave, scared or accomplice institutions, agencies and organizations, this compassion sounded to me as hypocritical bullshit. Get the NAM out of the system. Stop with the contour. See how Arcadis is now reviewed by TU Delft about the damage outside the contour. See how a counter-expertise agency is used because it has successfully advocated cases of victims. Excellent reports, "good made" reporting and making appointments is not a problem and every now and then it's a bit of a problem. This is what the Centrum Secure Living says about the Vergnes office. If I was duped, I'd know where to report for a counter-expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	I don't have a question, but I'm making a comment. In the meantime, we are a little used to the brutality of this Chamber's language. I'm sorry to hear that. The terms used by Mr Smaling with regard to Mr Schotman and the NAM seem inappropriate to me. We should be reluctant to use them, especially now that they cannot defend themselves here. I say again that I think we should be careful with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	We've been talking about this subject for years. I ask Mr Bosman to open his eyes now. He has to see that this company is all about frustrating and training everything. Those counter-expertise agencies sometimes have to wait years for a response from the NAM. Those agencies get heavily into red numbers because they're not compensated by the NAM until this late. There is a stack of cases showing that the company is primarily focused on increasing the extraction again and paying as little damage as possible. That's obvious to you, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	Now it's pretending I'm defending the NAM. What I have tried to say is that we must have a civilized conversation and debate in a civilized manner. Of course there are concerns; I will mention them later in my speech. I do not close my eyes to the concerns of the Groningen people, especially with regard to the NAM. However, the use of such terms leads to a sliding scale, which means that we're all going to stand here and yell at each other. I don't think that's appropriate. Let us stick to the content and the facts, and let us ensure that it is properly arranged for the Groningers rather than speaking tough language.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	I certainly believe that the private opinion of the director of the NAM is that he sympathizes with the people who have been so affected, but it is the Dutch Petroleum Company that sits there. That company has put a large part of the province in very big trouble. That company just kept silent in the years zero, while the number of quakes increased in 2003, 2006 and 2010. You just saw that. And what did the company do? Nothing, Mr Bosman, nothing at all! Mr. Chairman. What can the Minister do against these NAM protocols, so that the A-, B- and C-damage created by the NAM will also be eliminated? The legal basis for this is completely lacking. It's just a question of liability. The Civil Code, Book 6, Article 177 (1) states that liability also applies to the movement of the soil as a result of the construction or operation of a mining work. Autonomous soil decline therefore falls under the responsibility. Groundwater level corrections are again a necessary consequence of the bottom drop, so: people, just go to court, because you are in your right. The National Coordinator Groningen said last week that the top 30 meters of the soil account for 90% of the damage. That was a new fact for me. Does the Minister know this too? If so, what is the meaning of this to him? In addition, it has recently become apparent that residents on the edge of the gas area do not trust the damage investigation of the Safe Living Centre. Does the Minister have any way of doing anything about this? In addition, farmers have started a case against the NAM. That case is under the judge, so the minister doesn't have to find anything about it, but maybe he can say something about it. Finally, I will deal with recovery. Mrs Van Veldhoven also talked about it: there are few inspections with results. In Loppersum, 97% of the houses are not clear whether they meet the safety standards, which makes it unclear whether these houses should be strengthened. Yet I have the feeling that a lot is happening in Loppersum. Some neighborhoods have become zero-on-the-meter neighborhoods; others have to be demolished, unfortunately, but new buildings are being built there. It's going very slowly. What are we supposed to do about it? Should we take people from abroad, from countries that have more earthquake expertise, such as Italy and Turkey? What's the schedule like? What is paid and not paid by the NAM? My group is in favour of an object-related inventory. TNO pointed out this during the round table. Not only the houses should be classified, but also the subsurface, if those 30 upper meters indeed explain 90% of the damage. How can this be done? I think you can make a fairly quick classification of houses, so you can see which houses are similar, so you can place them in a group. There is also a need to regulate heritage and monuments. Colleagues have already spoken about this. In addition, the buy-back scheme should be extended. I'm sure Mrs. Klever will talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u15	Psychic and legal support is needed, such as Stut-en-Steun. There must also be a future plan for Groningen which goes far beyond the one-year gas extraction decision we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. Last week we spoke at the round table with Mr Nijhoff. I'm still impressed by his story. For years he has been involved in a legal battle with the NAM. Taxateurs are not independent and their damage is not recognised. His wife didn't feel safe at home anymore and she had no choice but to move. After more than 40 years of marriage, Mr Nijhoff now has a lat relationship. A lot of people in Groningen have been moustered. They want adequate damage recovery and a safe house. That's not too much to ask, is it? The reality is that almost 100,000 people suffer from serious to very serious health damage. For the Christian Union, a decision to win 24 billion cuub a year for five years, with possibly 6 billion cuub extra in a cold winter, is not acceptable. The State surveillance of the Mines is hardcore in his criticism. The measurement and control protocol is not good and the models used by the NAM are not good enough to calculate the safety risk and have not been independently tested. This is not consistent with a five-year mining decision. The Christian Union wants a one-year extraction decision to be taken and an appropriate measurement and control protocol to be used to reduce production gradually. Why these five years, I ask the Minister. And why not take a downward line, as the Minister apparently promised in an administrative consultation with the region? Six months ago, because of the security of supply, no less than 27 billion cube could be produced. Apparently, you can now. But why 24 billion cubs, and not 21 billion cubs? The Christian Union is keen to see a socially-behaved measurement and control protocol on which the people have been able to talk. Is that what the Minister wants? If the parameters of that protocol are exceeded, who's gonna ring the bell? Do residents get real-time information about that, if they can? Yesterday I read how one farmer is recognized in one barn and the other is not. After a long negotiation, the NAM comes over the bridge with €8,000, but the counter-expertise budgeted the damage at €400,000. I'm not making it up! The criticism of the State's supervision of the settlement of claims is also devastating. Social unrest and the prevention of damage are not a priority in the NAM. Where a few years ago there was talk about the generous handling of damage, 80% is now dismissed as so-called C damage. The Christian Union wants the NAM to stand at a distance from the settlement of damages. Two motions from my group have also been adopted on this. They aim to have both the Centre Secure Living and the National Coordinator operate independently of the NAM. I would like to hear from the Minister how these motions are being carried out. The damage must be determined by independent experts who meet independent quality criteria and then the NAM compensates for the damage. That has nothing to do with a blank check. That's just what it says in the Mining Act. All damage resulting from mining activities must be compensated. Another amendment from the Christian Union was adopted in the process of examining the Mining Act. Can the Minister undertake that damage is assessed in the same way, independently and transparently, even at the edges of the field without the use of contour cards? Can people at the edge of the field also count on inspections being carried out for reinforcement, as promised by the National Coordinator? Does the Minister also consider that the reinforcement requirements should not be based on the number of quakes but on the strength of a quake? The NAM believes that the reinforcement call can be a little less now that the seismic activity has decreased over the past two years, but the KNMI does not rule out a future heavy quake. My group also supports a plea for a support fund so that people can receive legal assistance if they cannot pay for it themselves. The Christian Union demands special attention to the heritage in the province, not only for the national monuments but also for the characteristic and defining buildings that determine the identity of the area so strongly. I am now getting signals that the National Coordinator focuses mainly on the national monuments, and in the meantime the NAM and the Centre Secure Living for the local heritage determine what can be preserved or demolished. What is needed, therefore, is an integrated heritage programme in which attention is paid to protecting heritage, the spatial quality, the care of owners and the placing of a municipality as competent authority. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he thinks that's a good idea. The Minister wrote to the Chamber that he would postpone a decision on the Zuidbroek nitrogen plant for one year, which would mean that, as a delay, the plant would not be operational until the fourth quarter of 2021. That is exactly when the five-year extraction plan ends at 24 billion cubic metres. The Minister argues that the conversion of installations abroad is faster than expected, but this makes us very dependent on it. Last week we heard that there is a shortage of mechanics in Germany. These are two important reasons for the Christian Union to say: no delay but simply get to work. Finally, if, in 25 years, we want to make 7 million homes climate neutral, this means 280,000 homes per year. With the few hundred homes per year that we now realize in Groningen and elsewhere in our country, we are not getting there. This requires an approach such as urban renewal. The question is what we are committed to in the coming years: converting for high-caloric gas or converting for the future? A future without gas, a future without gas roundabout. This calls for a vision from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. Today I am speaking on behalf of the SGP Group. Gas extraction continues to seize me and my colleagues from the CDA and the SGP. The impotence and injustice of the inhabitants of Groningen touch me right in my heart. The first opinion of the State Monitoring of Mines in 2013 following the earthquake in Huizinge was clear. We've been four years, but we're still a long way from here. The confidence of the Groningers in the NAM and in us in The Hague is lost. Today it is also up to us in the House of Representatives to be clear about the present gas extraction decision, the damage handling and the perspective for the Groningers. It is incomprehensible to me that the Minister should take a decision for a period of five years, whereas the measurement and control protocol does not yet meet the requirements of the SodM and many documents are still expected. It is unacceptable for the CDA that the NAM appears to be rewarded with this decision. The CDA wants the missing documents to be delivered before 1 June next year and that these documents then form the basis for a new mining decision. We want a decision to be made for one year until then. Is the Minister prepared to do this? In a decision for five years, there will also have to be a downward trend towards gas extraction. The current proposal fails to take that downward line. For example, a decrease can be used by our industry. There is an investigation into the conversion of the Groningen gas to high-caloric gas. This would mean less than 2 billion cuubs. Is the Minister prepared to launch this conversion as soon as possible and look very closely at sustainable alternatives? I see that the D66 Group has a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u18	In his letter, the Minister indicated that, together with the government and industry, some EUR 650 million would be needed to enable the conversion of fossil gas from one fossil gas to another. Does the CDA agree with the D66 Group that we should at least map out how we could reduce gas demand at all with the use of that money? Then we could assess different alternatives, even before we make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u19	I thank the D66 Group for this question. Industry accounts for EUR 130 million. The rest is for the nitrogen plant that has just been discussed by colleagues. The CDA Group would like this cabinet to continue down the line. I don't see that in the gas extraction decision. That's why I've looked at the possibilities of getting it down even further. There are three options. You can do something with your residents, so that the conversion of the houses in our country will go faster. So you don't just ask abroad to do that. You can do that yourself in the Netherlands. You can then also look at the industry; I have just spoken about that. Then you have the option of moving from gas to gas or from gas to sustainable. I would like the Minister to tell us how quickly this can be done so that we can continue to use the downward line. At the moment, that falling line is missing in my eyes. Another option is to use the nitrogen plants to bring down the amount of gas by 5 billion to 7 billion cubic tons of gas. That's a lot when you're talking about 24 billion cube gas in total. I would like to hear from the Minister why he has now taken the decision to postpone it. What is the reasoning behind that? We would like to know why this has been chosen. Groningers really don't understand this. You can go downstairs, but you won't. I hope the Minister has a very good explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u20	I hope so with the CDA. I am pleased that together we are asking the Minister whether he is also prepared to look at how we could, with the same amount of 500 million tonnes so much, cost the construction of the nitrogen plant, plus the 130 million that would have to be encrypted in the industry, reduce gas demand at all. Then the gas doesn't have to come from Groningen or Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u21	Of course, we have to look at how we can achieve that the extraction and use here in the Netherlands, including of Russian or Norwegian gas, is only just where we are getting it from. I think it's gotta be in there. As far as industry is concerned, this amounts to EUR 130 million. Maybe you can make it in the short term. Then talk to the industry about how you're going to shape that. I expect this minister to work on that. As far as I'm concerned, that nitrogen factory would rather get there sooner than later. Mr Van Veldhoven talks about the 500 million. It seems that it wants to postpone the matter, perhaps it will be able to deal with it in the second period, but I think that if we can reduce it now, we should do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u22	Construction of the factory costs 480 million. There is also a very decent amount of money for industrial installations. There is now a very legitimate point that Mrs Mulder is being presented with. Does she want to invest more than half a billion dollars in fossil to fossil, or does she say: No, let us opt for a sustainable solution? Mrs Mulder spends more than half a billion, but she does not give the Minister a chance to see if there is a better solution. I think this was a legitimate question from the D66 group. I have the same question and ask Mrs Mulder to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u23	We are having a debate today on gas extraction in Groningen. The biggest point for the Groningen people is safety, but now it is becoming a sustainability debate. I think that is very nice and nice, and we should certainly look at it in this debate, but it is primarily about safety. If we can increase it, I think we should keep that option on the table. The SodM also states that the lower the gas extraction the better. And it's five to seven billion cubs. That's what the CDA thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u24	Most Groningers want to get rid of fossil. They want to go to sustainable. They've had enough of the gas. They have their belly full of them. However, the CDA wants to build a factory of half a billion, so that we can continue to generate gas and convert it into another kind of gas, so that we can use it again. I would ask Mrs Mulder to make a choice in this respect. Or does it ask the Minister to study it again, because it is a lot of money and because it may be necessary to use the sustainable solution, as suggested by the D66 Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u25	I object to the way in which the PvdA Group formulates this. Of course, we must look at sustainability, but we must not forget that in the meantime we must also look at the safety of the Groningen people. We must do everything we can to bring about a downward trend in gas production. I am going to ask the PvdA Group whether it also believes that this downward line should be included. I think that is very important. Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists agree that this decision should be taken for a maximum of one year, now that the protocol on measurement and control is not yet in order? I would also like a clear answer to that later. The question for the Minister is to speed up conversion for household use. Can he explain why the construction of the nitrogen plant is being postponed? We are talking about a reduction of 5 to 7 billion cubic metres. Then there's the damage settlement. The contours are finally off the table. People get sick from the gas extraction and the damage handling. A resident we spoke to during the work visit indicated that she had to put her things in a stand in the garden for the third time. Of course, the workers get coffee and she's nice to those people. She said that the damage expert had assessed the damage on one side of the living room as earthquake damage and the other side of the living room as C-damage. So it won't be reimbursed. Eventually, the NAM came back to that, but not after that lady had had a lot of work done again. This can't be explained. In previous debates, the Minister said each time that there would be generous compensation. The Commissioner of the King of Groningen formulated it at Buitenhof as cheap. He's right. We want the Minister to keep his word. It's all going way too slow. With the NAM it has to come between the ears that it's about mining damage. We're gonna have to get rid of the definition thing. The Mining Act is clear. The principle of the reverse burden of proof should be applied as soon as possible. Last summer we were confronted with the report that the NAM will no longer pay the Vergnes agency for second opinions in the event of damage. The CDA believes that the NAM should not be involved in this. It is a free choice that the resident must have when choosing an expert for the second opinion. Now it seems that this is not the case. I ask the Minister to record this with the National Coordinator Groningen and to guarantee the NAM and the free choice. In answering my questions, the Minister says that this is a cooperation relationship between private parties. But we believe that it is much further, it is a matter of protocols, which will have to be adapted on the basis of objective quality criteria. How is the Minister going to make the damage settlement at the Safe Living Centre independent of the NAM? What role could the National Coordinator Groningen have in this? I'm still not satisfied with the pilot for house buy-back. I have a motion on this in the pocket. To make the pilot a success, more resources are needed. To what extent has the Minister already spoken to the NAM? When will the NAM make the money available for this purpose, so that the people can get caught up in the short term and get off the waiting list? I have dealt with the scale of gas extraction, the long-term nature of the gas decision proposed by the Minister and the desire for a truly independent treatment of the damage. These matters need to be settled and form the basis for the beginning of a perspective for Groningen. I would ask the Minister, together with the National Coordinator Groningen, to work even more firmly on this and to make the multiannual programme stronger and more structural. The course that has now been set at the schools is a good example for the CDA. I advise the Minister to do so in other areas, such as monuments. That could be a real step forward. I wish the Minister much wisdom in answering all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes a story gets to you, it gets to you and it stays with you. Mr Nijhoff's story during our round table was such a story. The impotence, the disappointment, the anger, but also the grief sounded in his words. A story about the walls with damage and about his farm, but especially about the walls he ran into and walked into in his damage handling. Mr Nijhoff is a real Groninger, who wants nothing more than to live on his farm, his home, his home. He didn't ask for earthquakes, but they did. As a real Groninger, he's not gonna let it go: he's gonna go to court now. This is the picture of what could go wrong and what goes wrong in the damage settlement. Of course, this debate is about the extraction decision, but it cannot be separated from the damage treatment and care for the people in Groningen. That's why I'm worried about the damage settlement first. A lot has been said about this in the round tables we held as a committee. Everyone agrees on the need to improve the treatment of damage, especially in complex cases, but also in the case of minor damage. With "little" I do not want to trivialize these damage, but it often goes wrong. That can and must be done better. It goes wrong in the communication, in the handling and in the different approaches to the various damages. It is also about confidence, confidence that there is no place in the role of the NAM in the whole process. The VVD therefore considers that the NAM should be set at a greater distance from the whole process of damages settlement, without the liability of the NAM being nullified. At the same time, the role of the National Coordinator Groningen will need to be strengthened. Does the Minister agree with me on this? How does he see this? The monuments also deserve our attention. Due to rigid regulations, we run the risk of losing monuments forever, especially if they are residential homes. Then the monument is no longer official to adapt or strengthen, or no longer habitable. Does the Minister see an opportunity to adapt these regulations so that customised monuments can be preserved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u27	The VVD plays the question to the Minister by how the damages should be dealt with, and gives a little direction. If a greater responsibility should lie with the National Coordinator Groningen, how do you get it independently? Suppose, in the case of the De Joode family's farm, we often visited him, that 1.2 million must indeed be paid to make her safe again. Then Hans Alders goes to the Shell and the Shell says, "Don't be silly, we're not gonna pay for that." A judge can enforce a verdict. How do you intend to put the National Coordinator in such a position that he can simply say: I come up with this amount and you will pay it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u28	What I learned in the time that we are working on the Groningen gas file is that we should listen above all to what is desired in Groningen. What do the Groningers want, what do the drivers want there, what do the people there, what do the residents want there? We must be careful not to send back from this house all kinds of wonderful ideas that we as Members of Parliament come up with here, and which we say: let us do so. I think it is important that the Minister also indicated that the Minister is in talks with both the NAM and the National Coordinator as well as the directors in Groningen to see how we can improve and strengthen the process in a way that does justice to the damage. I would therefore like to avoid that every year, every gas debate in this Chamber, we come to different solutions and give direction to a process that has not even been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u29	So again, I don't know, and we'll wait and see. First we get the story of how bad it is and then it's said: let's not come up with a solution from here. If we don't, who's gonna come up with that solution? Part of the Groningers, the Gas Council and the Groninger Soil Movement, has abandoned confidence in the National Coordinator. Several Groningers have been asking for court rulings and assistance for years. Their legal aid insurances often do not cover the costs. The people who are successful, such as Mr Nijhoff, Mr Bosman mentioned, but also the De Joode family, eventually only get there because they either come to court or have their case completely ready to go to court. Then it will be appropriate. Let the Minister see how far we can get with the National Coordinator, but what is against setting up a fund to carry out a number of pilot processes, so that at least that road, which is open to all Dutch people, becomes really passable to the Groningers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u30	I'm being accused of not coming up with ideas. I don't think that's appropriate. It's not. I just want to say that if we make this a political game, it is about what is right and what is wrong. When we look at what has come in recent years, we see that there has been an independent councilman, that the Tcbb has arrived, as well as the National Coordinator Groningen and the Centre for Safe Living. Every year there was something and then we came up with something and made a structural change and that was the solution. But each time we came to the conclusion that no one was satisfied or that a large group was not satisfied or that there was no trust. Nor does it help us to encourage this every time in this Chamber and say: it has to be different. Sometimes we also have to say: there is a system, which is a year in operation, and we have to accept that these people need time to gain confidence and get started with it. We have to support these people. It is unwise for us in this Chamber to burn down people every time and speak with great terms. Of course, there are a lot of problems and a lot of worries. We need to solve it, and we need to name it with each other. After that, the people in Groningen are on the move, the directors of Groningen, the National Coordinator Groningen and the NAM. In the round table, he made it very clear that they want that distance. I think that is very sensible, and that is definitely a breakthrough. Let us get to work on this, instead of saying now: we need to come up with something new. There is an independent earthquake council room. All these things are possible. So don't come up with anything new again, because we have something new every year. Why don't you fill in what's in there? There's a lot already and there's a lot that can be done. I think we should give some thought to that first. In the handling of damages, a lot of knowledge about the damage handling process is acquired by many Groningers. Unfortunately, this knowledge is not stored centrally, so that subsequent applicants cannot benefit from it. Investigating houses or monuments that have already been done can be of great value to others. These dates must be public, at least for the victims. In any case, I welcome the commitment of the NAM to do so. With regard to the binding decision, I can only say that I am pleased that the Minister is following the advice of State supervision of the Mines and has put the extraction at 24 billion cubic tons of gas per year. For the VVD this is a further step in phasing out gas extraction. In addition, the 24 billion cubic metres give the possibility to have sufficient gas with flat extraction in the various scenarios. Several scientists agreed on this during the talks: with flat extraction there is a lower load on the soil and thus there is less chance of earthquakes. Because that remains the core of the story of the VVD: security for the Groningen and security of supply for all those millions of people who are currently dependent on the Groningen gas for their heat. The measurement and control protocol is therefore very important. Can the Minister guarantee that this protocol will really be ready in November 2017? What are the obstacles to getting it done sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u31	The CDA lacks a further reduction in gas use and gas extraction in the Minister's Gas Extraction Decision. How does the VVD look at the fact that the construction of a nitrogen installation now seems to be postponed, which could mean a lower, flatter extraction level, something the VVD advocates?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u32	That lower extraction level has been deployed. I think the Minister has indicated that in 2029 we would be at 7 billion cubs. When your nitrogen factory is finished in 2021 and you produce 7 billion cubic metres, you don't actually need the factory. You must have invested half a billion dollars. I say to Mrs Mulder that governance is also a bit forward-looking. You have to think about that. Of course it is about safety and a reduction in gas extraction, but I think that reduction has already been implemented, and the VVD is very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u33	How does the VVD view the existing possibilities of taking further steps in terms of industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u34	Everything that is possible to obtain less gas in Groningen is well, safe and sustainable.We have to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u35	I hear the VVD say: we need to make use of all the possibilities to obtain less gas in Groningen in a good, safe and sustainable way. There are opportunities. GTS has said that from 2020 onwards, 2 billion less is needed every year due to decreasing demand. That nitrogen plant can help us. After all, we have not converted homes from one day to the next or turned them into zero-on-the-meter houses. These are two very realistic possibilities, which the VVD says: we are not looking at them, because winning 24 cubs for five years is our agreement. However, there are real possibilities for a reduction within that five-year period. I'd like to hear a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u36	We have halved the extraction compared to 2012: from 48 to 24. That's a huge step. Of course, there will be opportunities for further reduction of extraction in the future. For 2029 the starting point is 9 billion. We're just gonna do that. In the meantime, we need to find out what the extraction is. That is what the evaluation times are for, and the Chamber is always involved in this. We can still see if it can be reduced. Now we have to look at how we're doing things nicely. How do we ensure that the information is as complete and clear as possible so that we can make the best decisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u37	I would also very much like to make the best decisions, including for the people in Groningen. Frankly, I didn't get an answer to my question. Suppose there are opportunities to bring down the production of the Groningen field in a realistic way, then we should just use it? I read in the driver's letter that they insist on this. There have also been commitments made by the Minister. I know the VVD as a batch of "a man a man, a word a word." If commitments have been made and if there are realistic opportunities to reduce gas extraction earlier, why these five years? I am not even talking about the criticism of state supervision, which, as far as I am concerned, is very substantive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u38	In my view, State surveillance of the mines also indicates five years as an opportunity. Those promises were not made to me or by me. I have no knowledge of it, so I find it difficult to judge it. I don't know if they're on paper. We shouldn't confront each other, because I have no knowledge of it. It is important that we are all working in the Chamber. I am very happy to make it better for the Groningers and also for all those people who depend on the Groningen gas, because they still have to cook and stoke. We're trying to reduce that. An ambition of 7 billion in 2029 I really think is a good perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u39	I would like to ask Mr Bosman, like Mrs Van Tongeren, if he has any more concrete proposals on the way in which you put the NAM outside the damages settlement. What picture does he have of that? I took the damage protocol from the NAM. That of the A-, B- and C-damage is just how the NAM wrote down. It's been her idea to do that. In the Earthquake Damage Manual, especially in the last part, there are all walls, where something is mentioned about causality and where it is written that this is not convoke related. This has been created by the NAM to provide a kind of mold or format for both the first line damage treatment and the counter-expertise, but it lacks any legal basis. How does Mr Bosman see that? Can we get this off the table as far as the VVD is concerned? And, if so, how are we going to arrange that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u40	Now we're gonna talk about how we're gonna do that again. I regret that a number of parties have withdrawn from the consultations. I think you still need to start talking to each other, because we can and should improve it. There's pressure from the House of Representatives because we all think it needs to be improved. The NAM has publicly indicated that it needs to improve. The National Coordinator Groningen said: I want to do this; I want to get this to me, and I want to improve on this. Let us be careful, then, to say that the Chamber is going to decide here how we are going to deal with this. We can come up with some cool lyrics of "Oh, we're gonna take care of it," but then we'll settle it halfway again. What is best for Groningen is not what is best in the execution of resolution of damages. Anything is possible as far as I am concerned, as long as it happens in good consultation and as long as they agree. If people are knocking on the door for damages, it just needs to be handled properly. They need to be heard and there should not be all kinds of differences between A, B and C damages, where one crack is regarded as a C damage and the other as earthquake damage. The result must be that things like that just don't happen anymore. The handling must be done quickly; when you arrive, it must be arranged. All that kind of business needs to be taken care of, but you have to do it in consultation. You need to be transparent about that. I'm glad that commitment has been made, but they have to take care of it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u41	In his term, Mr Bosman mentioned all the parties involved, in one breath: the NAM, the National Coordinator Groningen, the Centre for Safe Living and so on. The problem is, of course, that a lot of organisations do what the NAM says. The Safe Living Centre focuses on the NAM. Arcadis has done a study and has been far too firm in her observation that the damage outside the contours was not earthquake-related. In the outskirts, people are now worried that Witteveen+Bos is going to do that. Those companies also have to make money. I understand that, but if they are lived like this by their big boss and their big client, then that's not gonna work. You can call all these bodies in one breath, but it will not be him, and then we will be beeping all the time. The VVD is a party that is close to business. So I'd like to get a more concrete suggestion from her. Mrs Van Tongeren suggested that a legal fund be set up so that you can build case law. Maybe that's something, but I also want to see concrete proposals from the VVD at this point, because otherwise we're going around in circles and we need that party too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u42	The problem now comes up again is that Mr Smaling calls the National Coordinator Groningen, the NAM and Arcadis "non-functional." This undermines what we want to achieve, namely that it is being built up. You simply need the NAM, because it is responsible and responsible. He has to deliver the money, too. You need to talk to that. You gotta sit at the table with that. It's gotta be involved. I am also very pleased that we are going to apply transparency and that all agreements that have been made in various cases of damage are simply transparent. The more transparent, the better. I also believe that all these research reports should be co-ordinated. I think there's a huge overlap in that. I am talking about a huge overlap of what we agree on. That's common ground; that's what we need. There are still fringes on which we do not agree; that is what you need to make transparent and that is what you need to talk about. Mr Smaling is now telling me that I have to make this very concrete, but it is so concrete that the Groningen people get my support if they agree on how they want to solve it. I think that's much more important than saying really cool: you know what, I'm just making up a new organization; you can trust that, but the expertise comes from people who used to work at the NAM. We also confirm this by saying: no, there really is no such trust. I find it really special that we in the Chamber cannot solve this in this way. We shouldn't solve that either, because that has to be done in Groningen. That's where it has to be. They have my support for that. What they need, they get.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u43	I will come back to the VVD's view on the further gas extraction. When there are new insights into safety, reduction of demand or reduction of damage, does the VVD think that we should process them in a lower production? Does the VVD think we should reduce as much as possible in principle or does the VVD say: 24 billion cub is what it is for us? What are we going to do in the next few years if we get new insights?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u44	I think you should first have stability, in all due care. What you don't have to win, you don't have to win.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u45	Exactly. So if there are further insights into how the gas can be extracted more safely at a slightly lower level, if the demand is reduced or if less damage can be caused, then the VVD also thinks that that line should in principle be able to go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u46	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mrs. Van Tongeren, this will be your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u48	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosman made a fervent plea that we in this Chamber should not propose anything more for the Groningen people, not even the use of the judiciary. That is not an idea of GroenLinks to set up a new organisation, because that judiciary has been around for a few hundred years. The Groningers are en bloc asking for the reduction of gas extraction. Is there a Groningen organization, or a Groningen administrative board or a Groningen group of people, who doesn't say that the gas extraction has to go further down? If that is the clear question from Groningen, should we not respond to it in this Chamber? That's what I prefer to do, Chamberwide. Can the VVD call it a Groningen organization that doesn't say the gas extraction has to go down? Is the VVD prepared to make a Chamberwide joint appeal from this Chamber to the Minister to adjust gas extraction as far down as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mrs van Tongeren is making it a caricature, as if I said we should not do anything here and should not bear anything. I didn't say that at all. Only, we have to be careful to pretend that we have the solution here. We shouldn't do that. I said: what is happening in Groningen and what is needed in Groningen must be supported. Of course I did not exclude or characterize the judiciary as a new idea of GroenLinks. Of course not. I did not say that either; let us be careful. It's about making decisions. I'm very attached to the investigation of the SodM, State surveillance of the Mines. I think that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mrs. Van Tongeren. Oh, I'm getting in the middle of it. I don't think you've finished. You are indeed looking at me...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u51	Indeed, Mr. Chairman, I'm not finished yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u52	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thank you. You scared the shit out of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u54	I just wanted to show you I'm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u55	Welcome, Mr. Chairman. The SodM is an essential part of my decision-making. In doing so, I focus on what is needed, what is safe and how it works. There are a lot of different parties that call all sorts of numbers about what is possible to win. For example, look at the GroenLinks election programme. It just says 21 billion cube for the next four years. So GroenLinks also has a mining plan for the next four years of 21 billion cubic metres. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u56	I would like to read through the GroenLinks election programme with Mr Bosman, because there is something else in it. It says that we must get rid of the gas as quickly as possible and that a maximum of 21 billion cubic metres can be won. A maximum of 21 billion cubic metres is not a extraction plan. It just says it really shouldn't be above it. Mr Bosman just kept a passionate story: we shouldn't do it here, but it's up to the Groningen people. All the Groningen clubs, the leaders of the municipalities, the province, the security region, the action organisations, are asking to bring the extraction further down. Mr Bosman says that we must support what the Groningers want. This is what the Groningers want. Does Mr Bosman support that or do we suddenly get an evasive manoeuvre that suddenly it is on the SodM? What is it? Are the Groningers on or is the VVD suddenly hiding behind the SodM again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u57	I never hide; so does Mrs Van Tongeren, but she is a little confused. She's confusing a number of things. Let me explain briefly. I was talking about the damage settlement. We were dealing with the question of how to find a solution to this problem, because we come up with something here every year for the damage-handling processes, and the next year we say that it does not work. We have to stop doing that. I think Mrs Van Tongeren absolutely agrees with me. If we come up with something here every time we have to conclude after a year that it does not work, that we are disappointed about or that we no longer trust, that is inappropriate. We shouldn't do that. That's what we need to learn from. At least the VVD learns from that and wants to see how we can do it better. I have a good plan for that: we must leave it to the Groningen people. We need to see what they need and they need to have the conversation. Of course it's hard when you have to talk to the NAM and when Arcadis is at the table, but make it transparent. The commitment has been made; now we need butter on the fish and now we need to make it clear. It's time to move on. I really hope the Groninger Soil Movement comes back to the table and says what it wants. Make it transparent, discuss it and bring it out. That's not a problem. That's the way we need to fix this. As far as gas extraction is concerned, I have made it very clear that I am focusing on the SodM, which, in all due care and safety, makes a judgment about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u59	I was done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u60	I have followed your speech with great interest. On one point, I would like to ask for clarification. I don't agree with you that we come up with something every year and it doesn't work. On the contrary, we have reduced the extraction of gas here, with a lot of push and pull throughout the Chamber, also with the support of your group. We have set up arbitrators with each other and the Groningen Ombudsman, and we have arranged something for special cases and for complex damages. Every time we hear from the Groningen people: thank you, it's better but it's not good enough yet. Mr. Smaling took the manual, which I also took to the hearing this week, and quoted it. Let me give a concrete example of how we could do even better as far as I am concerned. That manual is now being adopted by the NAM. We can't do that anymore; let's just say that by the National Coordinator Groningen, because it's independent. Is that a good suggestion to make the resolution of damages more independent or is that not a good suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u61	Sorry, I missed a little bit of your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u62	The question is: will we have the manual and the damage protocol established in the future by the National Coordinator Groningen instead of by the NAM? Is that a good example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u63	First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased with all the developments that have taken place in Groningen, both in terms of reducing gas extraction and in terms of the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, the arbitrators and the counsellor. I am all very pleased with that, but sometimes in the Chamber I get the impression that people are not getting confidence. We will not help confidence in these new institutions if we continue to emphasise in this Chamber that they have no confidence. I think it is important to emphasise that. Again, I welcome these developments and the things that have happened. How do we get that damage protocol right? It could be done that way, but I can also imagine that a number of parties say in good consultation: let's establish that together and let's hear what the situation is. Mr Vos can say that the National Coordinator Groningen has to do this, but I am also told that the National Coordinator Groningen is attached to the NAM. I think you should look each other in the open, in transparency, together and in good consultation in order to determine how this should be resolved. Of course you can say that this must be done by the NCG. Then we've established something; that's tough, but afterwards people are disappointed. I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr Bosman said that it might be possible to do so, but in the end we decide whether we are doing it or not, just as we did yesterday with one seat the euthanasia law or...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u65	The donor registration system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u66	...the donor laws have changed. Mr Bosman says that the National Coordinator is too attached to the NAM. Then let's make it independent. Let's attribute him, like it's called here in chic jargon, so he can decide for himself. And let's establish the damage protocol independently of the NAM. Do you say yes or no? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u67	It's not a yes or no question and there's no yes or no answer either, because you need to see what it takes. After all, every step you take has a consequence. If we say we're putting it all together, who's responsible for the ministry? Can we then call the Minister to account for what is happening in Groningen, or has it become a fully independent body? We can say very bravely that the National Coordinator Groningen must be independent and that it is settled then, but then we might come to the conclusion that this was not really so smart and that we did something wrong. Let us be careful with tough lyrics and with just as quick to hammer things off and settle things. Let us now have good discussions and good consultations in Groningen, because I believe that they are all well placed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u68	That's them, if they get the tools from us in Groningen to do so. If Mr Bosman, with a number of other political groups in the Chamber, says that the handling of damages must be simpler, faster, more generous and reliable, then we really have to take another step in terms of the reliability of the government. Does he agree with me that these principles should at least be anchored in such a new system and that it should therefore be separated from the NAM? Does he share the view with D66 that you should be able to reach some kind of agreement on the basis of accountability rather than mistrust in advance? This is a big difference. This means that you no longer allow people to draw up to the decimal point and prove that there is a damage that has to be compensated. Does Mr Bosman share with me that we could take a big step with the system: better ex post accountability than mistrust beforehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u69	I've already told you that the NAM needs to be remotely located. However, I have also said that the responsibility and liability for the damage suffered still lie with the NAM. The NAM is not so far out of sight that it can be said: okay, we are done. That connection must be clear and must always be there. It has also been promised that it will always be there. That's very good. There are many different options for dealing with the damage. It sounds very nice to say that we are going to do that in advance, and I can also imagine something about that. However, in the case of the POs, we have also said that we need to pay faster, but afterward there appeared to be a lot of problems. However, I would like to look very carefully at the framework surrounding it and what guarantees are being given, because I do not want people to get anything and be told after six months that they have to pay back. That would be much worse. Then it must be well arranged. Then it really has to be waterproof and you have to make sure that it is really a plus for the people and not a worry afterwards if they have to pay back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u70	On the first point, the responsibility and liability of the NAM, the Chamberwide is clear: no one wants to interfere. The NAM is responsible and liable for that damage and must compensate it. The question of how to deal with damage that is quick, generous and independent must be answered in the area. We should not want to deal with this in detail here in the Chamber, but Mr Bosman is now saying that we should look at everything. The most central figure we have so far without adding anything to the administrative spaghetti is the National Coordinator Groningen. That is the person to whom we must say: will you ensure that this is properly arranged? Of course with responsibility for what he's doing, but there has to be one person and if there's one person who can do that, I think that right now, within all we have, is the National Coordinator Groningen. Or does Mr Bosman see a better figure? That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u71	I am very open: there can be anything. There's plenty of room, but it has to be done in good consultation. It has to be properly closed, it has to be a plus, it has to be an improvement. All these possibilities are there, but I don't want to take care of it here. It has to be arranged there, but you have to be able to trust that it has been arranged and you have to prevent people from being disappointed afterwards and saying: it should have been different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u72	Same thing. Before the summer recess, the Chamber adopted two motions by the Christian Union asking the government to allow both the Centre for Safe Living and the National Coordinator to operate independently of the NAM. The consideration in those motions is also that, without prejudice to the responsibility and liability of the NAM, the Mining Act provides that damage must be compensated. There can't be a discussion about that. I hear Mr Bosman saying that he too wants to get rid of the situation in which one crack is C-damage and the other crack is related to mining. What should be done, according to Mr Bosman, to implement these two motions and to get rid of the incredibly annoying situations in which people with the NAM have to kisses about cracks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u73	I think I've said it a few times. That is not a problem; it has to be done there. People there need to discuss what is the best way to solve it. What is the best way to have the NAM remotely, while it is still involved in the responsibility and liability for the damage? How do I make sure this is taken care of as quickly as possible for someone who has damage? How do I ensure that, if that damage is paid, someone is not at risk of ever having to be repaid? How do I make sure that if it's one earthquake damage, so is the other? That can be solved fine there, but then you must have confidence in what is happening there. You have to give that trust to those people by saying, okay, we're gonna fix it that way. The only way that works is by showing very transparently what the different outcomes are. Let's see that. Put them next to each other. For all I care, you put it on the website: these are the houses with earthquake damage, these are the houses that have damage that we call C-damage. Make it transparent. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u74	If we work on new cooperation agreements and work on a damage protocol, then it is clear that the responsibility should lie primarily with the National Coordinator Groningen. He must involve the parties in the area. The NAM should not be sent to the front; the back should be accounted for. That has nothing to do with a blank cheque, because that's what it says in the Mining Act. Damage must be compensated, not only material damage, but all damage. So, let the National Coordinator Groningen determine what is necessary and let it come to a fair trial when assessing damage. Next, the NAM will have to reimburse them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u75	This is where the appearance of opposition is created when there is no such contradiction. In my speech, I said exactly the same thing. I said that the role of the National Coordinator Groningen should be increased. The moment we set the NAM at a distance, the role of the National Coordinator will have to be increased. Only how, in what proportion and what legal procedures are attached to it: that is what they need to find out. How do you come to the best solution? They're gonna have to take care of that over there. I think we are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr. Chairman. Our Prime Minister says "pick up," and that's what a lot of Groningers also think about gas extraction, but it's way too polite to say. Shell says "sorry" for all the damage in Groningen and for the nuisance, but immediately after that Shell says it always had the safety at one. In such a situation, our Minister suggests that a mining plan can be drawn up for five years. Isn't this just a political deal with business just before the election? How much more complicated does this minister think is going to be for a possibly more sustainable cabinet that could take office next year, so that the crane could be turned off further? That's what I want to know. On what basis is the Minister basing himself on the fact that he has now sufficiently guaranteed the safety of the Groningen people? Are the Groningers as safe as all the other Dutch? How does this minister know how the field is going to behave over the next five years when he says he can now guarantee the security of the Groningen people? How does the Minister know how the gas market and the gas price are going to develop? You can already hear it: it is one big plea for not adopting a decision now for five years. Quite a few of my colleagues have said it. On the other hand, if all kinds of possibilities arise in the media to reduce demand for gas, will the Minister take a careful look at this? If there are customers who are willing to take less, then we must embrace them. Is it true that you need 2 to 4 billion m of gas for flat gas per year more than you need for less flat gas? Is that worth our flat mining? After all, there is no evidence that there will be fewer earthquakes if you win flat. However, there is scientific evidence that the earthquake activity goes down if you gain less gas in total. I have already asked colleagues for the following in the event of interruption. First, the NAM tried to deal with the damage itself. Then came the Center of Safe Living. In December 2014 I said: it's always the same song, this institute is not separate from the NAM. Any organization that is not independent of the NAM or that hangs on Shell's strings will not be able to judge independently. None of my colleagues can tell me how the National Coordinator can carry on if, for example, at any time the NAM or Shell Legal says that they are not going to pay the 1.2 million in damages. The only one in the Netherlands who has the ultimate power of perseverance is the judge. I therefore hope that my colleagues will support the conduct of a dozen trial trials, in addition to all other processes, in order to obtain decisive statements. The Groningers have been asking for that for a long time. I'll continue with the National Coordinator Groningen. What about democratic control? I think this is an official who hangs directly under the minister. He must strengthen the economy, restore communities, deal with individual cases and guide the fund for the special cases. He must also maintain a good relationship with Shell and Exxon, with the local government, with the security regions, with the waterboards and also with The Hague. We also want to give this representative some kind of judiciary. That means that this person is going to represent the trias politician in one person. I predict that we will be back here in one or two years' time and will say that this National Coordinator is a bit heavy, that he will not be able to handle those three roles within the trias politician. I would very much like to hear an answer from the Minister. Now Hans Alders is looked at as a kind of god who in Groningen is to bring salvation. This guy's not gonna make it. I just heard some mumbling from the CDA. Apologies for the analogy; I could have used another one. I would also like to know from the Minister what happened to previously adopted motions, including those from GroenLinks, on the consistent use of the term'mining damage'. The manual from earlier is about earthquake damage. It's still called the arbiter handling the earthquake damage. Hans Alders only has an agreement with the NAM on earthquake damage. When it comes to mining damage, there must also be agreement with the waterboards. We have an approved motion on the ECN report on a reduction in gas demand. The ECN stated in 2015 that a theoretical reduction of 11 to 16.5 billion cubic metres is possible. We would get a reaction from the government with the measures that can be taken now, inter alia, by at least removing the new construction of the gas and by consulting the industry on where to get rid of the gas. GroenLinks has already made a plea for this. So today we can take a step towards a safe and liveable Groningen, and towards our fossil-free future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mr. Chairman. Today we're talking about the gas extraction decision. The PVV considers the extraction ceiling of 24 billion cubic metres a year too high and the five-year period too long. According to the Minister, gas extraction cannot be reduced further, otherwise the security of supply will be compromised. At the same time, ENGIE, a large customer, wants to decrease less gas than is contractually required. ENGIE supplies a large part of Belgium and Northern France with Groningen gas. Thus, if ENGIE sees other possibilities to supply these areas with gas, gas extraction can be determined lower than that 24 billion cubic metres. The PVV has been saying for years that we have to stop exporting our Groningen gas. The minister hides behind contracts and security of supply every time, but apparently he never talked to ENGIE. How disappointing... He has now also decided not to build up nitrogen capacity to reduce gas production by several billions. Apparently, the Minister would rather wait for the next major earthquake to take action again. How disappointing is it that the Minister does not take our suggestions seriously! This is particularly disappointing because it saddles the Groningen with an unnecessarily high risk of earthquakes. The PVV wants a declining extraction ceiling for the coming years. The five-year deadline is far too long, also in view of the many studies that are still under way. The PVV therefore finds it more logical to set a ceiling for only one year. The PVV also wants the contour card to be deleted. Delft University of Technology has clearly argued that these limits are not as clear as they are suggested with that map. Mining damage must be compensated. That is independent of whether your house happens to be within the limits of an unclear contour map or whether it is not. The fact that there is also a risk of earthquakes outside the contour map has long been confirmed by both the NAM, the municipality of Groningen and the National Coordinator Groningen. The Groninger Forum is made for 68 million euros earthquake-proof, although the building is outside the contour map. This therefore takes these parties seriously into account earthquake damage outside the contour map. Or is this 68 million from the NAM due to the fact that the then chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Groninger Forum is the current National Coordinator Groningen? Does the Minister agree with us that this contour card is not good and that it should be put in the trash immediately? I'm on the buyout schedule. From day one, the PVV has advocated a generous and generous buy-out scheme. At last, there is something similar to that, but it appears to be so limited in design that it is necessary to choose who is eligible. That is completely unacceptable. The 10 million that the NAM makes available for the buy-out scheme is stark to the 68 million that the NAM pays for the Groninger Forum. 62 families who meet all the conditions are excluded and are still held hostage in their own homes. I find it incomprehensible that the National Coordinator has agreed to this. According to the PVV, anyone who fulfils the very strict conditions of the buy-out scheme should be able to use them. Can the Minister undertake to do this? In addition, can the Minister indicate how he looks at the phenomenon of drawing lots for a buy-out scheme? Does he think such a tombola is appropriate? The PVV doesn't think that draw is appropriate. The PVV wants a national coordinator to stand up for the Groningers and who is not busy with his dozens of additional jobs. We want such an independent coordinator to have an independent position vis-à-vis the NAM. The ratio of National Coordinator/NAM should be: the National Coordinator determines and the NAM pays. The role of the NAM should be limited to paying the account. The NAM should therefore not interfere with contour cards, damage protocols, the completion of the buy-out scheme or whatever. Situations such as those of farmer Kruzinga from Usquert must therefore be avoided. His farm was declared total loss shortly after the Huizinge earthquake, but according to some compensation from the NAM he can still whistle. All these points have been advocated by the PVV Group for years. We want to see an end to delaying tactics. We call on the Minister to take steps to do justice to the damage caused by gas extraction, which does justice to the fact that gas extraction has generated more than EUR 260 billion, and which do justice to the law that says mining damage should simply be compensated, and that the buy-out scheme is not the subject of any lottery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u78	For the sake of clarity, is the PVV's view that next year is 24 billion cubic metres and that there will be a decline afterwards? Or is the 24 billion cub still under discussion as regards Mrs Klever?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u79	I started my speech with the story of the company ENGIE. It is said that this year people want to take less away than they are contractually obliged to do. We therefore believe that less gas can be extracted this year. It is, of course, very strange that ENGIE has to take off gas against its will, and that it is said here that gas extraction cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u80	If gas extraction declines in the coming years, I assume the PVV wants to do so too, will it include the lost income in its election programme? That electoral programme has already been issued, but I haven't really looked into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u81	As you know, we have an election programme of one A4 which clearly states what we stand for. For the rest, you can assume that our input from the past years will continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mr. Chairman. Several colleagues have referred to Mr Nijhoff, who was present here in the House of Representatives. Mr Bosman expressed my emotion best, because it made me, like him, sad. Mr Nijhoff is a gentleman; that's a bit of an old-fashioned word, but he's really a gentleman living in his home for a long time. He's worked in public service all his life. Then his house was hit by those tremors. He described it in a way I can't reproduce here, so I won't try. His house gets hit, he gets hurt and tries to recover that damage, but ends up in an insane bureaucratic jargon and gets lost in all those agencies and institutions. If he decides to go to court because no justice is done to his sense of justice, he will end up in a lengthy procedure. That's sad and poignant. That doesn't suit the Netherlands. I have visited with colleagues in developing countries, poor countries, where mining companies operate, such as Colombia. I have been to South Africa and Congo myself. There's mining companies that do a lot of damage to residents and don't pay them back. It doesn't fit in the Netherlands. Groningers, Dutch, must be compensated for all the damage. We are not a developing country, but a modern, western, enlightened, industrialised country with a rule of law. We have a Mining Act. That law states that the company responsible for the damage must compensate it. That must be done now, to the last penny. In order to do that, we will have to place the NAM remotely from the damage settlement, because let's be honest: those valuers are almost in the service of the NAM. If you don't do what the NAM says, you'll be thrown out; we've seen that extensively. I am extremely pleased and satisfied that the arbitrators, who were also appointed at the request of the Chamber, have now said that residents in a number of cases are right and that, on several occasions, the valuer, which was removed from the trial by the NAM, is mentioned. That says something, apart from everything that the valuer may have done wrong, about how that agency assisted the Groningers. The NAM must be removed. The position of the National Coordinator Groningen needs to be strengthened. The so-called damage protocol should be established independently by the NCG, in cooperation with the inhabitants of Groningen. The earthquake damage manual, if it didn't make you sad, could be said that the way it was drawn up and the jargon used are laughable; we have spent the last week extensively discussing it with each other. I think it's okay if we attribute the NCG powers and make them independent. In doing so, he can do justice to all the misery that the Groningers have been given to them. Can the Minister confirm that he will not use the PvdA's request I do not want to use the word "demand', but it was played through my head and frankly it is also in my text of speech? As I said when interrupting, the Chamber has been pushing and pulling for years to bring down the gas extraction from that scandalous 54 billion cube in 2013 to 24 billion cube now. That didn't happen on its own. That took a lot of effort. We've been here night after night. Numerous arguments and facts have also been exchanged on the level of gas extraction, as to why such extraction should be established at a certain level. I think we have acted correctly every time, at that time, with the knowledge of that time, but I also note that reality is now very simple. Less extraction is less tremors. They are less frequent and less large in size. If you have fewer tremors, people will have less damage. So that is a very good solution to the problem. So the gas extraction has to be down, not up. The Minister now says: we're going to fix it for five years. Then I say: I'm sure you will, but, with all due respect, you can expect a motion from us in which we say that in a year's time we will be looking at the matter again on the basis of good and thorough information. We have seen here every year with moving insights that we could once again determine this extraction at a different level than we thought the year before. There is no reason for me to believe that we can now set a level for five years at once that we are going to hold on to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u83	It is good that the PvdA Group will also decide again in a year's time. At least that is how I read the PvdA Group's proposal. It wants to decide again next year whether or not to continue with gas extraction at the level of 24 billion cubic metres. Is it true that I have to read it like that or is it going to be some kind of mid-term evaluation? I want to make this point, because I want provinces and municipalities to have a real right to talk to when they decide. The moment it becomes some kind of evaluation, they don't. The CDA attaches importance to the participation of those people from the province and the municipalities. How am I supposed to read the PvdA's pronunciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u84	I think it would be very good if we could guarantee this participation by local authorities next year, and every year after next year, and that we in the Chamber would simply say that these authorities have the right to express their views on the situation in Groningen. I also think it would be good if we involved the SodM and the Mining Council if necessary. But I would also like to do a little justice to the current advice of the SodM. On page 14, it is very clear that the NAM must come up with a new extraction plan in 2021. I would like to stick to that, because I do not pretend to know better than the Inspector-General of State Control of the Mines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u85	The State surveillance of the Mines criticizes the NAM, because the measurement and control protocol is not good for each other. I think that is now on the agenda for November next year. Does the PvdA Group also think that the measurement and control protocol should come to the Chamber earlier, just on 1 June, so that we can decide again next year on the extraction of natural gas? After all, suppose the NAM didn't do it. Don't we just reward the NAM by admitting to it for five years now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u86	I'm not admitting anything. I just made that very clear. We'll talk again next year. I suspect that we will probably also be talking about the measurement and control protocol and, I fear, still talk about the damage. Although it would adorn the NAM if we didn't have to talk about all those damages anymore. I'd like to hear from the Minister why it takes so long for us to have that measurement and rule protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mr Vos says that gas production should be reduced, but I understand that the PvdA supports the decision to record it for five years now. Mr Vos says: then there will be an evaluation. However, we now have the situation that the Minister writes in his letter of 12 September that from 2020 onwards, gas production will be reduced by 2 billion cubic metres each year. So you're talking about 22 billion and the next year you're talking about 20 billion. That's all in five years. Why does the PvdA hold on to those five years and why doesn't the PvdA say: we should just go to a shorter period now, for example one year. That evaluation is fine, but why not a shorter period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u88	When it comes to the assent decision on the extraction plan, I say yes. Are we going to commit for five years that the NAM can win 24 billion? No, we'll talk again next year. We've deviated from that extraction plan before. We'll do that again if we think we can get that extraction down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u89	I don't quite understand where the Labour Party is. I hear her say: we want to establish the extraction plan for five years. In the extraction plan it is clear that five times 24 billion cubs are involved. At the same time, the Labour Party says that this cannot be it, that it wants an evaluation in a year's time and that it must be reduced. It can't be both: either we fix something for a year and then we make new agreements to further reduce gas extraction, or we fix something for five years in which it's worth five times 24 billion. I would like to hear a further clarification from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mrs Dik-Faber always knows better on behalf of the Christian Union than the Inspector-General of State Monitoring of Mines! The Inspector-General has made it very clear that he thinks it wise to adopt the extraction plan for five years. Moreover, the extraction plan contains far more than just the numbers that Mrs Dik-Faber now paraphrases in a way that I do not wish to take on board. There are extremely complex issues at the root of the extraction plan. The inspector-general considers it important that he has the opportunity to carefully assess all investigations and a number of requirements that have been formulated. He therefore believes that he can better assess socially responsible gas extraction in the Netherlands. That's how I read it. I also referred to the relevant pages of the opinion. On pages 14, 20 and 21, Mrs Dik-Faber can also read it. I've been calling for four years not to tell the Inspector General what else to do. After all, he is the one in the Netherlands who has been appointed to make the gas extraction take place socially responsible. He is also the one who rang the bell in 2013 and said: this can no longer be done. We don't have that institute for nothing. I do not think that, as a policy, we should have a gas bingo and decide what we are going to do each year. However, I think that in a year's time, with all the knowledge we have, if we are well informed, we need to re-examine whether we are on the right path with the current plan. If the extraction can then be reduced, we must immediately reduce the extraction, because less extraction is less tremors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u91	The inspector general is very clear in the report, but also very double. I'm hearing the same double signals now. The Inspector-General is indeed saying: set it for five years. But he also says that we do not have a good measurement and control protocol and that the models used by the NAM do not provide a good basis for the safety risks. All this needs to be put in order. If the Inspector-General puts that in the opinion, my group finds it impossible for us politically to conclude that we can give the NAM carte blanche to fix it, that we trust that it will be in order next year and that we will adopt a five-year extraction plan. That can't happen, can it? Next year, as a political one, we must review the measurement and control protocol and the models that are on the table. Then we have to make a new decision. There is no other way than to say to each other that a extraction plan should be made for one year and that we should review it after that year. As far as I'm concerned, the five-year extraction plan is off the table. I am sorry that the Labour Party wants to hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u92	The Christian Union claims that the inspector-general of State surveillance of the Mines in the report is quite double. I don't recognize that. Anyone can download the advice. Anyone can take a look at the advice. Then you can see that there's nothing about double-heartedness to be found. For a longer period of time, we look at what is best with regard to safety in gas extraction in the Netherlands. In addition, a number of clear requirements and conditions are laid down as to how the NAM may design the gas extraction. I think that we should respect that as a Chamber and at the same time we should realise that we have a very fast-moving insight and that we cannot therefore give a licence for five years, but that we should talk about this again in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u93	The SodM, as has just been said, is very critical of a large number of models, the assumptions and so on. That is why I wonder what benefit the Labour Party would be if it were to sign a five-year mining decision. What's the advantage of that? Instead, in view of everything Mr Vos has already said, you can also look again after a year and then sign again. What's the advantage of putting a signature under those five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u94	The inspector-general has said that he wants to see a new extraction plan by 2020, 2021. What is the advantage for the Chamber to say now: the inspector general, with all the people looking at gas extraction, with all the reports, evaluations and systems, doesn't know? We are tabling a motion because we know better. We are withdrawing the Minister's decision and we are going to do it differently, because we know more about gas extraction here than the inspection. What's the advantage of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr Vos himself just said that we are going to look again after a year. He is right to say that, because the SodM has a lot of criticism of the way things are based now. We are also going to discover a lot this year, as we have learned a lot each year. Doesn't it make sense to look again after a year? We respect the five-year perspective outlined by the SodM, but after a year we sign up again when we look at all the points of criticism that are also very clear in the opinion. That's a very reasonable compromise, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u96	When it comes to safety in gas extraction, I do not compromise. I'm very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u97	Everyone here puts safety first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u98	I thought I was talking. The Mining Council and the inspection play a role in this, but it is ultimately about the safety of the people. There is a pile of paper underneath which is a lot of reality. We have to respect that reality. Is that easy for me? No, I would also prefer to see gas extraction reduced to 18 billion cubic metres. Hoppa, motion and ready, but that's not the reality. The reality is that we make agreements with each other for five years. Then we can walk a path and then the conditions of the inspection can be met. Then we can also offer some certainty to all those involved in this process. Then we don't change the rules of the game every time halfway through the process. Over the past four years, we have gained more and more knowledge each year. Do I realize it could be different in a year? Yes. Do I think that's the case right now? I don't know, but I'd like to discuss it in the Chamber so that we can see if we're on the right track. I think we are on the right track, because let us not forget one thing: the earthquakes have been reduced in nature and extent. We have also understood over the last two weeks that this is a success that we may well celebrate. That is what this Chamber has done, Mrs van Veldhoven, Mrs Mulder, Mr Bosman, Mrs Klever, Mr Smaling. We've been here every year, several nights, we've been pushing and pulling. Eventually, we got something done. Let's celebrate. Let us also try to be united today and walk this path with all of us, instead of trying to achieve our own political desires through a piece of paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u99	How can Mr. Vos agree to an extraction level of 24 billion cubic metres if at the same time an important customer, ENGIE, says: We want to reduce several billion cubic metres of gas, but we are kept to our contract. Why don't you lower the gas extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u100	I don't know exactly what's going on at that company. The director of GasTerra explained in the Chamber that this may not be entirely pure coffee. Those are my own words, by the way, so I will leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u101	The director of GasTerra does not supply the customers with gas. That's what ENGIE does. ENGIE says that this can be accomplished in a different way, in what way I don't care. If ENGIE indicates that it wants to take off less gas, then it is strange that we pump up gas in Groningen and let ENGIE take that away, against the meaning of that company. In fact, Mr Vos tabled a motion last time, which was adopted, requesting the Minister to consider whether the gas contracts could be phased out. The minister hasn't even spoken to that company. How does Mr Vos feel about that? He thinks the export contracts should be lowered, doesn't he? The Minister doesn't do that. He's not even talking to that company. Then the company comes to us and indicates that it wants less gas. Then Mr Vos says that he doesn't know exactly what is going on, but that he doesn't really care. Isn't this an opening to bring down the gas extraction by a few billion cube, immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u102	The Labour Party has in the past advocated reducing gas production by reducing exports. More precisely, it has also asked whether the process of switching from low to high-caloric gas abroad can be accelerated so that we can speed up the phasing-out of exports. At that time, the cabinet questioned the technical feasibility of that request. In the meantime, it has become clear that this can be done: exports can be reduced. That is one of the reasons why we can foresee a further reduction in the extraction of natural gas in the future. I am pleased with that, also because we have all achieved it. It also shows how stubborn this file is. Because each year we build up more knowledge about the gas market and how gas extraction works on the tremors. Let's continue down that path. We have gone from 54 billion in 2013 to a scandalous amount of EUR 24 billion now. That didn't go without a fight, but it did. Let us continue along that path, though somewhat structured and not on the basis of what a company calls in the newspaper, because I really have no message as a member of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u103	Second interruption, Mrs. Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u104	That is not an answer to the question at all. If a customer wants to reduce gas consumption, there is an opening to pump less gas. It's that simple, isn't it? Why doesn't Mr. Vos just admit it? Perhaps compensation or whatever will have to be paid, but Mr Vos can at least ask the Minister if Gasterra and ENGIE can go to the table to see how they can get out of that 2 billion cube that ENGIE less. Is Mr. Vos going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u105	I understand that Mrs Klever is now asking me to pass on a question to the Minister. I would like to be for her sake: that is what has been done here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u106	Why does Mr Vos not ask for the implementation of his own motion, supported by us, to examine whether the export contracts can be adjusted downwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u107	My speaking time was minus 13 seconds. I would also like to pass on this question to the Minister. Thank you, Mrs. Klever. We've done each other a favor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u108	Mr Vos did not understand Mrs Dik-Faber when she said: when I look at SodM, on the one hand I find it crystal clear and on the other a little unclear. I get that. I have SodM's report here. It says that if we assume 24 billion cubic metres a year, we will maintain the same level of security as in 2015. If we go back to 21 billion cubs, we'll get fewer tremors. That is what the Party for Animals wants: we do not want to stay at the level of 2015, we want to go down. That is why we do not want to stick to those five years. We recommend that we do this step-by-step in years. Don't record that for five years. Why doesn't the Labour Party agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u109	I disagree with the Animal Party about the fact that we could now bring gas extraction further back because SodM states that, if you do, fluctuations will increase. Then you'll have an unsafe situation. The report makes it very clear that for the first time it has really been shown that these fluctuations cause more tremors. You have to stop that. That's why we're stuck with a lower limit every time, which means we're going down very slowly, rather than faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u110	But at the same time SodM says: only at 21 billion cubic metres there is a safe situation, but in the end we will have to go even lower. But if you combine that with what Mrs Klever has just said, namely that a large company, ENGIE, says it needs less gas and that a 10% reduction is a safe level, why do you want to stick to those five years? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u111	Because that same inspection you're talking about now advises us to ask the NAM to submit a new extraction plan in 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u112	I'll take another shot. Of course, Mr Vos has always had a special position in this debate as a representative of a coalition party. He has also taken his space well, especially in the last year with the renovation of the Mining Act. That is why I am surprised by this position. You're going to commit for five years. In fact, I do not think this is appropriate to the way we have been working on it in recent years, also because we have always felt the need to adjust the level of extraction. What is even more important to me is that if you record it for five years now, you will deprive local authorities and citizens of the possibility of appeal and objection. That is something that we have so prominently laid down in the Mining Act. I therefore think that this is not in line with Mr Vos's view on this five-year extraction plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u113	I do not think it is the merit of the Labour Party what has happened here. I think that we, as a Chamber, have played a part in this together. We have found each other, especially after that first period, and we have joined forces to represent the people of Groningen in these debates. That is the profit we have gained politically as far as I am concerned. I'd like to continue that line. I would like to say once again that, as far as I am concerned, we will be back here in a year's time to look at the situation as it is in Groningen, apart from all the matters decided by the cabinet. But I also agree with the extraction plan and I do so because the inspector-general has advised it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u114	So we are going to arrange for ourselves a moment where a mayor or a deputy or a dike dike or a citizen can't do anything with it. That was precisely the strength of the way we changed the Mining Act. Now you're gonna record it for five years and you're gonna pull it all the way into the next cabinet period. Dear Mr Vos, dear Jan, you have often had to speak with flour in your mouth on this dossier. We've been here six months. Now let your heart speak and take a different view than is being put forward here. Please!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u115	Ethos, pathos and logos are the three elements on which every politician always bases his argument. That's what I'm doing today. Over the past few years, we have had a very emotional conversation here with drivers, with citizens, with Groningers. We have also been to Groningen several times, alone and with each other. I don't expect us to be talking to each other in the air next year, because we all have a phone full of phone numbers from people from Groningen. Those people are probably calling and e-mailing us to tell you what they want us to do. In the end, we ourselves have a balance to make. My consideration is: we're going down with the gas extraction. We've done that four times, and we're gonna do that again. We'll talk again in a year. However, I am attached to the Institute for State Monitoring of Mines, whose inspection has made it quite clear that this is how we should proceed. I'd like to stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u116	The CDA is concerned about the gas building reform. The moment you make a decision for a year, you keep the pressure on, also to come to a good reform. At the moment when you already indicate that there are 24 billion cuubs to be won every year for five years, opportunities may be missed to come up with other solutions. Does Mr Vos have an opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u117	The Labour Party believes that in a year's time we will review the level of gas production. If it's possible, it'll go further down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u118	How does the PvdA Group view the reform of the gas building? Does it go fast enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u119	No. That is why I made proposals today to give the National Coordinator Groningen more powers, to attribute. I would also like the damage protocol to be established independently. I will not mention the whole list of points, because I think I have already raised these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-3.u120	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
