ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the spokesmen and, of course, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. In 2015, a lot of cars were added in the Netherlands. It's 47,000 cars. There are twice as many kilometers with vans as in 1990. At the same time, there are fewer and fewer buses. In 2015, there were 3.3% fewer buses than in 2014. The increase in all those cars means a lot. First of all, it means a lot to the people themselves. It's positive, of course, it's liberating, because a car gives you the freedom to move. You can go anywhere. It contributes to their earning capacity for many and it is also a love for many, a love for a weekend because then the car has to be cleaned again. At the same time, so many cars also require a lot of society. It is becoming more crowded on the road, there are all kinds of harmful substances in the air, people's health, especially those who live along the road, is getting worse and it also contributes to more and more congestion. The answer to this problem can be formulated in different ways. This can be done in the way of the VVD, namely more and more asphalt. According to the VVD, the whole of the Netherlands has to be flattened and asphalt has to be constructed. But it can also be done in a different way, as the PvdA does. She believes that in ten years' time all non-electric cars can be banned. Jan the worker has to go back to work with horse and carriage. Unfortunately, too little attention is paid to a realistic scenario. Possible solutions are in the tax sphere and we can take the first steps for this today. Let's do that right now. I am also looking at the Secretary of State, because he obviously needs support for his proposals in both Chambers. He can try to handle that right away today. Because if it's just VVD and PvdA, the coalition partners in the Chamber, we're not getting anywhere. One of the most important solutions is to pay for use, which unfortunately is now excluded in the coalition agreement. The SP fraction chooses to pay according to usage, based on the mileage counter. This will make the car tax system not only simpler but also fairer. Whoever makes more use of the road network pays more. This also makes the system more future-proof. The SP Group does not agree with the State Secretary's qualification that paying according to use on the basis of the mileage counter is still susceptible to fraud. We have discussed this extensively in the Chamber. The IRS can just request the mileage counter annually. The mileage can also be checked at the apk, at a turn in the garage or in transactions, i.e. sale and purchase, and passed on to the Tax Administration. So that's very simple. I think the Secretary of State was also a fan of simplicity. In addition, cheating with the mileage counter is prohibited by law. We also see that more and more cars automatically communicate with their own manufacturer and immediately pass the mileage. This can, of course, contribute to the pre-filled declaration of which the Secretary of State is a big fan. The positive thing is that the Secretary of State writes in the answers that private parties take initiatives to pay for use, in which the Empire participates from 2016. There is even a car team, which has indicated to private parties to be available for questions and support. The SP has been informed that the private parties will be ready for the exploration around the summer as a result of the energy agreement of 2013, which will most likely provide a positive advice for payment to use. Can the Secretary of State state state what has been done within the car team in the last two and a half years in terms of payment to use, also following the concluded energy agreement? Is the car team already working for the next cabinet when there is a positive opinion from the private parties? Standing still is a decline in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u3	I have two questions about stationary mileage counters. First of all... Apparently, the SP sees a lot of good in this, but you see commercials on TV these days about someone who bought a car with a manipulated mileage counter. So according to the SP, they're based on fantasy? Second. If you're going to tax on actual consumption, so to the number of miles driven, which the SP apparently wants, wouldn't you also have to differentiate by the moment of the day? At certain times there are a lot of traffic jams on the road. I don't think a mileage counter would be appropriate for that either. What makes the SP so excited for this mileage counter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u4	As far as Mr Groot's last question is concerned, we have, of course, already tried to do so with the proposal made by former Minister Eurlings. Fortunately, that's stranded, because otherwise you'd be stuck in traffic and paying taxes at the same time. We have a very simple solution, namely taxing the use on the basis of the mileage. Of course you can see all bears on the road right away, but you can also think: it is possible; let's just try to work it out and execute it and get started with it. I am in favour of the latter. And I don't want to say that all these commercials don't add up. Of course, there's been cheating everywhere. The mileage is also being cheated. That will happen, but at the same time it is less and less common. Manufacturers automatically communicate with the cars and mileage levels are read out remotely. At the apk the mileage is also recorded. You can build in more control moments. This will ensure that the fraudsters are quickly fished out. I would also point out that mileage fraud is simply prohibited, as is fraud with the gas meter or the electricity meter. We passed a bill for that. It's illegal now. If you get caught, you're the scarf. Can the Secretary of State at least work on a vision for the future and send it to the Chamber with the 2017 Tax Plan? This is a point that really needs to be worked out. This needs attention. I think it's the solution we need to go to. I am asking this question explicitly because several proposals within the current legislative proposal only come into effect later than on 1 January 2017, partly because of the implementation costs. Also introduced by 2018 or 2019 is included in the legislative proposal. It is precisely those years that are the beginnings of the next cabinet. And if you still rule your term, take everything with you. So also the possibility of paying to use. The best example where the starting date is much later is the introduction of the supplement in the vehicle tax for polluting diesel cars without a factory soot filter. Why can't we do this sooner? Why do we have to wait so long? In the note on the report, there is even a possible majority in the Chamber, provided that the CDA also supports an earlier entry date for a particulate filter for polluting diesel cars. The SP still does not agree with the fact that if good measures are proposed, no less than two and a half years will have to wait for implementation. In itself, the Secretary of State comes up with a plan B that includes a gross mrb supplement, but he also serves it to the trash can. Then I ask the Secretary of State if he would like to see again whether this is possible or not, because we have to wait far too long now. In the written preparation for this debate, the SP has clearly indicated that the Secretary of State may move a little more towards the Chamber. As a result of the preparatory debate, the draft law has actually been slightly amended. As with the Tax Plan, the CDA is not sufficient for a majority in the Upper House. The SP sees that the present bill certainly makes car taxes more future-proof, even for a few years. The SP is therefore very happy that there will be an end to the excessive tax stimulus on the so-called plug-ins. Those are cars that run both on fuel and on battery. We often see that people only use the tax arrangements and often continue to drive diesel and petrol. However, the SP also sees that there is a whole world to be won in the area of car taxes, even if it is just an exploration for the introduction of a mileage prize, as I mentioned earlier. If we then look specifically at the proposal before us, we will see a number of things. We see that the tax subsidy of business lease drivers continues to continue. In fact, if you have a company, you may first ask for the VAT for the car you lease. You can subtract all charges. Think about parking, gasoline, fuel, maintenance. Even if you take the car to the car wash, you can ask for the VAT and deduct the costs. You can also deduct road taxes. You can deduct the insurance even if you have a very expensive insurance policy with all-injury. Then the car will be on balance. You can write off on the car every year. You have to take into account a residual value, but you can write off 20% a year. That's gonna get rid of your winnings, too. Then, if you ever sell the car, you can also deduct the loss of value from your winnings. So the driver who drives business is subsidised in every possible way. What do we see in this bill? We see that the Secretary of State, who now stands at 25% for some, even reduces the addition to 22%. I understand, of course, that the proceeds will be returned in one way or another if the burden on hybrids and plug-ins is increased slightly to tackle abuse. But the way the Secretary of State does that, in our view, is unfair. The proceeds are to a large extent one-sided to the lease drivers. We don't think that's fair. We therefore propose that the addition should not be reduced to 22% but to 23%. That 1% difference also means 1% extra add-on for the business driver. We want to redirect the proceeds of EUR 60 million to the vehicle tax. This increases the burden on the business lease driver and lowers the burden on the private individual. An additional effect is that the business lease driver may choose to leave the car and take public transport faster, although I have to say that the pressure for it is very minimal. As I just said, there were 3.3% fewer buses in 2015, but 47.000 more cars. Do we think that's acceptable? I don't think it's a good development, especially if we want to keep going. For that we need fewer cars on the road and more people in public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u5	Like the SP, GroenLinks is a warm supporter of good public transport, so that's where we find each other, but today it's mainly about cars. I hear that the sympathetic proposal is made that the most expensive polluting cars are not made cheaper, especially for lease drivers. GroenLinks agrees. But if money is found somewhere, does the SP think it should go to all the cars? Or does she agree with GroenLinks that it should go to the cars that cause the least air pollution, noise pollution and climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u6	I fully agree with GroenLinks; perhaps we can find each other in that. Of course I'm in favour of stimulating clean cars. In fact, we have stimulated cleaner cars in recent years. Look around when you're outside and you see the result: there are more and more economical and less polluting cars. That is good and that is partly due to fiscal policy. You don't have to make the choice the Secretary of State makes. You have to go for it, and so you have to stimulate clean cars. So I fully agree with Mrs Van Tongeren's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u7	That's very nice to hear. I want to go a little further on hybrid cars. I think we share that the lease driver, in the way it is now stimulated, has no incentive to use a lease car as clean and economical as possible, except perhaps his conscience. I think this will happen if these lease cars are placed on the private market, because there are a lot more ordinary men and women in there and someone will see it right back in their wallet. GroenLinks advocates that these cars become more accessible for people on a normal salary. Does the SP share that ambition with GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u8	Of course. In general terms, I have also pointed out that the plug-ins and hybrids, which are still often used in business, will be on the private market in a number of years' time. It would be nice to encourage them to stay in the Netherlands as much as possible instead of being exported abroad. We would have subsidised them but then lost them. And all the people they could have bought would buy a dirty car. I'd rather not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u9	Those were nice green words from Mr Bashir. He flirts with the Secretary of State, who needs him for support from the SP Group. To be honest, that surprises me a little bit. This law has the effect of making new cars 10% more polluting and new lease cars 22% more polluting. Does Mr Bashir intend to agree at all to a law that does not make the fleet of newly sold cars more environmentally friendly but much dirtier?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u10	I think I've been very clear. As the bill is here, the Secretary of State cannot count on my support. If the bill is not amended, I will advise my group not to agree to it. In my opinion, I have been very clear in this regard. But the Secretary of State can get us with him. Then he'll have to do a few things. First of all, he has to promise that he's going to do a really serious job from paying to using. So he and his auto team must develop a vision of the future and see what is possible. That is not so much for this cabinet period, because it says in the government agreement that we are not going to do it now, but I imagine that a next cabinet will work on this. Secondly, he must do something about these tariffs. 22%, with all the other benefits I mentioned, is not acceptable to us. The Secretary of State really needs to move and then we can see if we can support the bill. I told you what we're thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u11	With all due respect to Mr Bashir's plan, but with a 1% higher addition, you will not make those new lease cars 22% less polluting. That would be nice, but unfortunately it doesn't work that way. Is it a condition for Mr Bashir that this law ensures that there will be no dirtier new cars? I have a second question for him. I take it from his input that Mr Bashir is okay with the fact that a Porsche Cayenne, for example, is going to be cheaper when buying a nice car. Is Mr Bashir, if he gets his way on those few other points, happy that the driver of a Mercedes S500 or a Porsche Cayenne might be able to buy a much cheaper sports car with the support of the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u12	There sounds a little jealousy with Mr. Van Weyenberg about that Porsche Cayenne. Who wouldn't want to drive Porsche Cayenne, I'd say? Mr Van Weyenberg should try it, instead of all those ugly Tesla's. Let us talk specifically about the proposal I have made. Mr Van Weyenberg says: 1% addition, what are we talking about? Well, it's about a lot of money. If the catalog value of a car is €50,000, then 1% of it is just €500 extra add-on. We can use this revenue, for example, to stimulate economical cars or to spare the mrb-payer, and so on, and so on. That 1% sounds little, but if you're talking about a Tesla of €100,000, you're just talking about €1,000 extra add-on. Of course, the example of a Tesla is not entirely justified, because it falls naturally into the 4% category.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u13	There are a few more questions for you. I think Mrs. Schouten was the first to get to the microphone. At least she did her best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u14	I can run real fast, Mr. Chairman. I have listened very carefully to what Mr Bashir has said. He's really on the verge of it. That is fine in itself, but he also threatens a little to the Secretary of State that he may not agree to the bill because it is not green enough. But how does Mr Bashir reconcile this with the position of the SP on environmental zones? I thought that went the other way. It's hard for him to blame this Secretary of State for not being green enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u15	I'm equally surprised at this interruption. I happen to have included Mr Smaling's opinion article which deals with environmental areas, why we voted as we voted and what our alternative is. This debate is not about that. Everyone can look for 'Environmental zones: the goal is good, the means must be better' by Mr Smaling. I would like to pass the article on to Mrs Schouten, so that she can read what we stand for and what we want to do with those environmental zones.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u16	I even read that article, because I myself live in an area where an environmental zone applies, so I was very interested in explaining how the SP's voting behaviour could be explained. Because I don't understand it very well. But the fact is that the SP's voice has led to a counter-action on the environment. I am particularly opposed to Mr Bashir's wording towards the Secretary of State. Shouldn't that be a little more balanced? Anyway, it's the SP's choice to do it this way. I thought it was just as important to mark that double.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mrs Schouten will be able to discuss environmental areas in greater depth with Mr Smaling. We agree with the objective, but we are opposed to the way in which it is to be achieved. The headline above the article says it: 'Environmental zones: the goal is good, the means must be better'. Mr Smaling knows how to do it, so I would like to say to Mrs Schouten: have a debate with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u18	Not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u19	No, we're discussing environmental zones at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u20	The SP plays a bit hard to get, but for one percent extra addition the party is inboard. How much would that one percent extra add-on cost from 22% to 23% and where would the Secretary of State get the cover for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u21	The other way around, just so we're clear, one percent isn't little. If a car costs €50,000, then 1% is €500 extra add-on. This will generate additional money, EUR 60 million. We can use this EUR 60 million, not to fill the pockets of the Secretary of State, but to spare the green driver, the green driver. Mrs Van Tongeren has made a number of suggestions for this. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if he's willing to come with us. If he goes with us, we will ensure a better balance between the business lease driver and the green cars of the ordinary private. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is in favour of this. If the Secretary of State doesn't do that and chooses the lease driver, then his bill will end up in the First Chamber, but that's not my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u22	So for one percent, ergo 60 million euros, the SP brings this bill to a majority? That's basically what it's all about. Where exactly the EUR 60 million have to land, I am still completely unclear. If the SP wants this so badly, why does it not come up with an amendment? Why is the ball placed at the State Secretary's office? If Mr Bashir submits an amendment and obtains a majority for it, the Secretary of State is pleased.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u23	Quite a coincidence, I have an amendment with me. Indeed, I intend to present what I have said as an amendment to the Secretary of State's bill. I would much rather he said: I am going to change the bill with a letter of amendment. The point is that we want a better balance. I have just mentioned all these benefits, while the private sector is being driven out of public transport. Let's restore balance. You can start with the one percent. For Mr Van Dijk of the PVV Group, 1% is apparently too little, but I can imagine that people in the country will find a lot of €500 extra add-on. We are not going to leave that money in the pockets of the Secretary of State, but we are going to use it to spare individuals so that they are encouraged to drive cheaply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u24	It would be nice if the amendment were to be tabled by the second deadline at the latest, so that colleagues would be able to take note of a possible reaction from the Secretary of State to that amendment. It is not an obligation, but it can be pleasant for colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr. Chairman. I start with a compliment and that concerns the charging stations for electric cars. A motion has been tabled by D66 and GroenLinks and the State Secretary has done his homework and acted on it. I know that in the field about the physics and chemistry of the method of calculation a lecture is probably given and I like to sit down with that, because then I also get a little extra training. In addition to a compliment, GroenLinks has made an action plan on electric driving on the road to clean transport. This subject falls not only with this Secretary of State and not only with Minister Kamp or Minister Schultz. Once again, I would like to offer it to these spokesmen for inspiration. There are proposals and ideas in it that can be used to achieve faster and better clean transport in the Netherlands. It won't stop tonight. I have brought something for the Secretary of State, namely ordinary electric cars for the ordinary man and woman, provided that this Secretary of State is going to try to help make them affordable. These are famous car brands that are now driving on the road. I understand that we do not yet have a ruler who drives an electric car himself. Perhaps this Secretary of State will be the first to dare to innovate and drive an electric service car. I'll give these model cars to the messenger for delivery. One of these two cars gave me a week's trial run.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u26	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u27	I'm afraid that's where the good news stops a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u28	That's what I thought!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u29	I read a report on Saturday about the electrical ambitions in another country, India. That has an innovative plan, namely to make every new car in India electric by 2030. How do they do that? They do so in the same way that they have been able to hang a lot of LED lamps in India, namely by making the vehicles available free of charge. The user pays back the vehicle by the difference with the cost of the old car and the savings that the user now has. Perhaps something for the Secretary of State to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u30	India has 1.2 billion people. If they all have to drive an electric car, my question to Mrs Van Tongeren is: how does she think that electricity is generated in India?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u31	I am glad that the issue in India is also being discussed this evening. Just as we should in the Netherlands. Firstly, we need to work much more with sub-cars. We should not have a car everywhere that is on average used two hours a day or even less. Secondly, much more must be done to improve and clean public transport. The last pieces of the trains must be electrified. Electric tuktuks are already here. India can use that. The last transport that these other solutions do not serve, you should preferably do with the electric car.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u32	That wasn't my question, was it? If of those 1.2 billion people want 600 million people to have a car, then maybe 100 million people will end up buying an electric car. They have to be able to run on power and that power has to come from somewhere. My question is: how is that huge amount of electricity generated in India for those 100 million electric cars?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u33	You could do that in India, a rather sunny country, mainly with solar energy. Putting solar panels on top of any suitable roof in India is more than enough to allow this amount of cars to drive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u34	I will give you the floor very briefly, because the first question was misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u35	Right. Whether she misunderstood that question: she mainly walked around with her electric shoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u36	The answerer is about the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u37	Madam President, I would just like to say through you to Mrs Van Tongeren that India and China have placed the biggest order ever for new nuclear power stations. It's just nuclear power! I'm fine with that in itself, but this isn't a green dream, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u38	I did not hear a question in that, but I will respond briefly to the question of nuclear energy. A European country, England, is in the process of ordering a nuclear power plant, and I recommend that Mr Van Vliet take a look at how well that is going and how much the costs have now gone up. Hinkley Point is about to be ordered off. So the future of nuclear energy is not great, but before we go through India's energy policy, I will just continue with my input. Is that okay, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u39	That seems to me to be the right course for tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, where this Parliament is concerned, transport accounts for around 20% to 30% of total CO emissions. In order to take seriously the judgment of the judge in the Urgenda case, our climate agreements in Paris and the government's own policy, these emissions need to be reduced quickly. In my opinion, the Secretary of State is very much in agreement with me. Mr Bashir already referred to Pillar 7 of the Energy Agreement on Mobility and Transport. It states that tax measures are subject to a separate and special trajectory within that pillar, which will be reported in the Autobrief II. It's gotta go down there. As far as cars are concerned, what we agreed on in the energy agreement is going to crash in Autoletter II. I will continue to read that the whole transport and mobility sector will result in savings of between 15 and 20 petajoules. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how his car letter contributes to that. It says that it is extremely ambitious and we agree with each other. Then, under 9.3, second paragraph, which is perhaps the most important point for tonight, it says: "Amidst a growth model with intermediate targets, from 2035 onwards, all newly sold cars will be able to drive CO-emission-free; by 2050 this will apply to all passenger cars." I'm very curious about that model of growth and the intermediate targets. What intermediate objectives does the Secretary of State have in taxation? What about the ingrowth model? My name is with those of other attendees under a motion from the PvdA to do it not in 2035 but in 2025. In both cases, you have to have a growth path with goals. I would therefore like to receive an update from the Secretary of State on his growth model and on the intermediate targets for taxation. What about the investigation into paying for use? The aim is to examine whether you can abolish the Eurovignette, the vehicle tax and the bpm and replace it with a system of payment for use. I am very interested in that, and I would like to hear the results of this when the Chamber receives the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u41	Mrs Van Tongeren rightly calls for attention to be paid to the path of integration in order to end up selling only electric cars. Does she agree with me that it would also be very interesting to hear from the Secretary of State what percentage of news sales will be electric in 2013? Mrs Van Tongeren is asking for a path, but I am also very curious to hear how far we will be in 2020, the end date of this letter. The Labour Party will soon be able to see that we are "extremely" upset by this law. The cynicism is intense, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u42	It's never gonna happen through the Acts. So it's a good thing you mention it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u43	I also heard the cynicism. In my contribution, I have raised the question, and I shall get to the point in more detail in this respect: what was the initial estimate of this State Secretary, what is the State Secretary's estimate of the proposed new policy and how he reconciles it with the harsh agreements in the energy agreement? I also expect the VVD to be entirely on my side, because the VVD is regularly acting as the guardian of the energy agreement; no letter should be deviated from that. I therefore assume that this also applies to Pillar 7, mobility. The VVD Group can therefore prepare itself for the fact that I would also like to hear from her how she thinks that the government's own goals will be met in the energy agreement with the current measures we are discussing. In terms of mobility management and fuel savings, including in the energy agreement, I have stated that there will be a pilot project for mobility budgets. If it is evaluated positively in 2016 I would therefore like to hear when the evaluation of that pilot will continue to work. It also states that 1 million mobility passes will be in use in 2015. I would like to know if that number has actually been reached; I have not been able to find it myself. I also read that in 2020 there will be 100,000 semi-cars with very low average emissions. I would also like to hear what the Secretary of State's plan is for this to be achieved and how far we are on the way, because 2020 is already very soon. So much for points in the energy agreement. We have presented a plan for hybrid cars to which reference has already been made. In previous consultations, the Secretary of State said that hybrid cars may prove to be overly expensive. But they're in the Netherlands now, they're sold, they're there and they're plug cars, so you could drive a lot more economical. How are we going to ensure that the ordinary woman or man gets into such a car and that we also have the advantages in terms of less noise and cleaner air in the Netherlands? How are we gonna do that? GroenLinks is excited to think about all solutions. We believe that a purchase premium may be the easiest. We find it difficult to explain that hybrid cars are increasingly treated as old-fashioned fossil, regular cars according to the Autoletter of this State Secretary. We would like to hear how the Secretary of State thinks this will contribute to achieving the goals. The famous Porsche Cayenne, with an emission of 215 grams per kilometer, has already been mentioned. This will cost €3,000 cheaper in purchase, while a Toyota Prius with 39 grams per kilometer, a quarter of Porsche Cayenne's emissions, will cost €2,500 more. How do we explain that, Secretary of State? Originally, with the older policy, the cabinet expected to have 185,000 full electric or hybrid on the road by 2020, and it itself calculates that this goes down with the current proposals, namely to about 100,000 hybrid electric cars by 2020. Is this closer to the government's stated ambition? I think it is very fair that the bill shows that the cabinet is not going to make it this way. What measures will the Secretary of State take to ensure that this is done? How can you achieve your climate goals if the expected CO emissions from our fleet increase from 87 grams per kilometer to 96 grams per kilometer with this letter? We have to go downstairs, but we're going upstairs. The cabinet will then say, and this Secretary of State will do so tonight, that the measures it has put in place are too expensive and not effective. So you're gonna get rid of them. What the Secretary of State forgets is to replace it with new ones. At GroenLinks we are in favour of cost-effectiveness, but then look for better environmental measures instead of abolishing them. We are therefore in favour of keeping the bpm and the mrb for regular, polluting cars equal or rather going up for the toughest cars, including in the addition; the polluter pays. In order for the electric fleet to get off the ground properly, we prefer to stimulate second best, so the hybrids. After all, an electric car is also a challenge in the Netherlands in terms of infrastructure until we have all those loading posts. We also make proposals. I have tabled two amendments. The amendment in part No. 9 regulates that the specific fee levied on the Tesla does not go into €50,000 but at €100,000, with coverage from the Porsche Cayennes of this world. We would also very much like to arrive at green vans instead of just white. Entrepreneurs also want to make it more sustainable. The government now spends 1.1 and a quarter billion on exemptions in the bpm and the tax on motor vehicles for the white vans. That's a very big grant. In the way it is being used, it is not helping to make it more sustainable. There are several techniques that can make this happen, for example by raising rates a little bit and putting it into an environmental investment deduction (MIA). Then it is attractive for entrepreneurs as well. At the moment it is very expensive for entrepreneurs to go greening with a white van. It is much cheaper for them to drive a polluting van. We shouldn't have that, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u44	That is a little too easy for Mrs Van Tongeren. She has just tabled an amendment which the Teslacap does not take up until €100,000. This means that a Tesla has up to €100,000 4% add-on. If you buy a Tesla of €100,000, you only have to pay €2,000 net per year, so less than €150 per month. This will make the Tesla for the richer because only very rich can of course drive Tesla as expensive in the lease as a Volkswagen Polo. Because not only the Porsche Cayenne is being made more expensive, which is not leased at all in the Netherlands, but also the Volkswagen Polo, the Nissan, the Opel Astra, in short all small cars go from 22% to 22.1%. Why does GroenLinks think it is justified that the addition of a car of €100,000, with all the luxury involved, should be subsidised in such a way that the whole of the Netherlands will have to pay more for leasing, including all drivers of small cars in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u45	There are actually two questions in that question. It was just about the jealousy on the Porsche Cayenne. There is also a big jealousy in the Netherlands on the Tesla. I love it when CEOs switch to clean cars. I don't think it's just because of that car. I get a ride sometimes from a guy like that in a car. When you talk to such a CEO who has a Tesla, you generally notice that there is an interest in energy and that there is much more interest in energy and sustainability. So it has an effect on the whole company. So I think you should put some on a pioneering group until we've reached the cabinet's goal and then we're done. I think it's good to explain when we do. Instead of going from 25% to 22%, it would go from 25% to 22.1%. This then applies to lease drivers, generally not the category that has to prepare a Cup-a-Soup in the evening because there is not enough money to buy dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u46	No, but that Cup-a-Soup isn't prepared by CEOs driving a Tesla at night either, as far as I know. And if they did, they did something wrong. This amendment by GroenLinks proposes that a Tesla rider receive a discount in the add-on that may amount to €18,000 per year. That's next to the bpm exemption and next to the mrb exemption. Has Mrs Van Tongeren read the report of the General Court, which states how much it went wrong with the Mitsubishi Outlander, how it cost hundreds of millions? Why does GroenLinks want to repeat that error by a small group of car drivers, also very well-equipped.. so to speak canal belt types, but I can't say that here, of course, to give €18,000 a tax advantage? In the Netherlands, for example, we are going to import all Tesla's from all over the world and we are going to have a gap of hundreds of millions in the budget, which is already going to be passed on to the leasing car drivers with a small car and later on to the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u47	This chairman is not a stereotype, but I now give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u48	There are a number of nice points of confusion in that; Mr Omtzigt is good at that. The Mitsubishi Outlander is not a full electric car. It doesn't have a 400 km electric range, it's a plug car. This amendment does not apply to hybrid plug cars, but only to full electrics, so also to full electrics: the same category that a Golf can buy can also buy or lease one of these two. There is an alternative, but that only works for people with a reasonably short travel distance. It's a technique in development. Mr Omtzigt will remember how we got the Netherlands on the Groningen gas. Then we also very quickly distributed a lot of free cookers, because we wanted to get that process going. If you want to have serious electric transport in the Netherlands, you do need the infrastructure. At the moment there aren't even signs to find a Fastned fast charging station along the highways, because we can't get Rijkswaterstaat far enough to hang those signs. If there are enough people driving an electric lease car who want to charge their car there, you can do that kind of thing. You have to build mass to realize that transition. This has enormous benefits for the whole of the Netherlands, for example the air quality in and around large cities. You do not see that in this amendment, but there too, you will gain enormous costs in a longer life for people who live closer to the highway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u49	We're going to see Mrs. Schouten. Interrupts in principle in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u50	I'm never taken away by CEOs with Tesla's, so that's probably what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u51	I can arrange that for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u52	Let's just stick to the car letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u53	You made it sad, so I can fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mrs Schouten is now going to formulate her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr Omtzigt is right. A euro tax advantage can only be spent once. We stand here every day debating what we spend it on. This group is not very poor or has very little income, as Mrs Van Tongeren herself points out. How does she justify giving this group an extra tax advantage to drive a very expensive car? This euro tax discount will indeed be withheld from other people in the Netherlands, for example the less well-off. Does Mrs Van Tongeren agree with me that if that group is of good will, who can pay for it and does not need that extra incentive in addition?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u56	If this money went directly to the food banks, Mrs Schouten would find me beside her. Then I would say: if necessary, you set the fare for all the expensive lease cars at 30% and then we will have proper social policy. We are talking about leasing cars which are at 25% and for which the rate is going down. They're old-fashioned fossil cars that become cheaper because of the Secretary of State's proposal. They're not cars that we make incredibly much more expensive. The lease rate goes from 25% to 22% for the dirtiest cars. We want to put 0.1% on top of that in order to stimulate the growth of the number of Tesla's. By the way, not only are CEOs driving a Tesla, but also a lot of taxi drivers. This too has a huge advantage in terms of noise quality, climate and air quality in large cities. To start a movement, you have to do it somewhere. If Mrs Schouten has better coverage on offer, I am always prepared to amend the amendment with her suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u57	It's not about cover, it's about spending. Maybe I wasn't clear about that. By putting that cap at €100,000, we sponsor a group that I think they might not really need if they choose that car, because then she often does so on a green principle, as Mrs Van Tongeren herself points out. Then you can use the euro you are spending on it much better for middle incomes or lower incomes, which also want to take a step towards greening. Why does Mrs Van Tongeren deliberately choose to encourage the richest group to drive an expensive car that most people in this room probably can't afford?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u58	I think we could come a long way in this Chamber if we wanted to spend our money on that. However, I think it is right that you treat all full electric cars in the Netherlands equally at a time when a transition is being started. And what I think is wrong is that one brand is excluded, Tesla. We all know that the car industry has lobbied heavily. Tesla is after all the only car that is a serious competitor for the Audi, the BMW and this kind of big, heavy cars. The old industry, which has great connections with the oil suppliers, is very afraid of this transition. So if you take the Tesla, also the only alternative to the service car, out long enough, that transition to full electric transport goes much slower. That's what's happening here. The old-fashioned car lobby says: calm down, slow down, not so fast, we shouldn't do that. The Tesla is the lobby an incredible thorn in the eye. If you look at the history of the Tesla in all kinds of other countries, you can see that too. In the U.S., for example, there is a special law...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u59	Shall we be a little shorter and more concise in the answer? I believe that the answer to Mrs Schouten's question was given, without involving the situation in the US.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u60	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u61	We're going to see Mr. Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u62	I just heard Mrs Van Tongeren say the words 'old-fashioned fossil cars'. In the 1920s electric cars were already driving around and they had the same batteries as they are today. You only got three kilometers away with that. But Mrs Van Tongeren talks about the Tesla tax all the time. Can she explain exactly what that is again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u63	I'm gonna go in on those three kilometers first. The original cars were indeed electric. There's these lovely ads from "buy an electric for your wife." But when we discovered oil, we had to come up with something for it. Unfortunately, that happened in the United States. The combination engine was then invented and it was pushed quite deliberately, both by the people who found the oil and by the car industry. However, the electric car still works on the same principle. It's technically very simple, it's less maintenance costs, and there's especially no air pollution, no climate change, which depends on where you get your energy from, and no noise. So I'm still a fan of this car. Mr Van Vliet was at the same AO where I went and where we talked about this Teslatak. There is no other car affected by this tax. That's why it's on the Tesla. In my view, the Secretary of State also said that there would be an exception for a Japanese hydrogen car, which would also be so expensive. It did not have to be covered by this tax, because that was innovation and experimental.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u64	I'm about to jump into the ceiling because of this bullshit. The Teslatak is a left-wing populist term, which really doesn't make any sense. The only person who's really laughing at the possibility that we're here giving mountains of tax subsidies to this car that's treated practically everywhere more favourable than any other vehicle in this kingdom is the owner of that factory in California. After all, the Netherlands is so stupid to let go of facilities. Surely you cannot talk about a Teslatak, if the thing is exempted much more than anything else I see around me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u65	I hear a lot of anger from Mr. Van Vliet. But as he probably knows, Minister Kamp has good conversations with that California entrepreneur. There is a considerable amount of employment in the South of the Netherlands due to Tesla's assembly facilities and there are plans to expand it. Mr Kamp and I were both present at the opening of this Tesla factory. On my call to see if we cannot pay more attention to electric transport throughout the South Netherlands, among other things by that factory, he reacted enthusiastically. This is apparently received differently in the Netherlands. Mr Van Vliet does not receive it very well, but both the VVD executives and GroenLinks people refer to words such as employment, cleaner air and the rest of the rigging I mentioned. This is the future. This is innovation. This is where we're going. Get used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u66	It is good that the Tesla has been supported, but of course there are limits to that after a number of years. In that respect, I did recognize myself in Mr Omtzigt's story. However, I have a more fundamental question, namely whether what Mrs Van Tongeren is advocating is not an example of what her group leader calls the economicization of society. She wants to seduce CEOs to go electric, but she only does that with financial resources. Environmental awareness is thus, as it were, bought. Wouldn't it be better just to appeal to these CEOs on their social responsibility so that they can ride a Tesla, which, I repeat, they can afford to pay Mr Ommzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u67	In an ideal world with 80% GroenLinks voters that would indeed be the solution, but we are not there yet. A lot of people choose for different reasons. The first people to drive that Tesla Roadster did, by the way, do so out of hobbyism. That's when you couldn't actually load it anywhere. They were going to investigate. Then you get another group that thinks it's adventurous enough and wants it on. Now we are with a group that needs a heavy business car for work and wants to pioneer a bit, but also wants comfort. That's where this Tesla goes. I hope there'll be more soon. BMW's working hard. Let them get on the market quickly, because then there's competition. Audi's calling it. I've even read stories about a fully electric Porsche. Come on, boys, get to the other car brands and get to the European market!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u68	That's not an answer to my question. My question was whether this is not an example of the economicization of society, which Mrs Van Tongeren's group leader dislikes so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u69	I have, of course, discussed my electric car plan in detail in my group and I have been paid tribute to it by my group chairman. He thinks this is a positive story full of employment and innovation that benefits all people in the Netherlands at some point. What he mainly means by economics is that perhaps Mr Groot should also be discussing with him again, because we do not do that because we think it is too expensive and it affects people's health or potential for development. I do not see the reduction of an add-on of 0.1% of lease drivers as a truly dramatic deterioration for a group in the Netherlands. I do think that the sooner we get to clean transport, the sooner we will have the benefits for Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u70	No, Mr. Groot. I think the point was clear. We're going to see Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u71	I'm really falling off my chair. GroenLinks is talking about a Teslatak. Tesla riders pay for the part above €50,000 22% addition. Is Mrs Van Tongeren aware that this is not an additional tax, because all other leasing cars pay a 22% add-on from €0? So she is now proposing to give these CEOs, from whom she occasionally gets a lift in this beautiful Tesla, an additional tax advantage that amounts to net €9,000 a year, and that is to say every carpenter and every plumber who has a van in the store and every ordinary lease driver who does not get an 80% discount. Does GroenLinks consider that a just society, with or without 80% of the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u72	Plumbers and carpenters driving white vans are in a different regime. They don't have a lease car, as we both know. We had an addition of 25% on the dirtiest cars. It would like to extend GroenLinks, but it's going down now. We'll find out what the CDA's up against. We do not think that is a good thing. Yes, we think it is right for a change, for a transformation, to be justified for a certain period of time, perhaps Mr Omtzigt thinks that overstimulation should be said: you are a pioneer, we reward you for that temporarily, we encourage that and we would like that to happen. GroenLinks wants all electric cars treated equally. We do not want an artificial stripe in it so that there is no serious competitor in the Netherlands for the heavy Audi's and the heavy BMW's. We want that to be a serious alternative that is about equivalent use.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u73	I will deal with the serious alternative in my term. Tesla also comes with a car of €30,000, so you don't have to have the whole Teslacap, but let me ask Mrs Van Tongeren another question. How many trips did she take with the Tesla? How much did she talk to Tesla? How many e-mails went back and forth between Tesla and GroenLinks, before there was one amendment on the table that only the drivers of expensive Tesla's benefit and is paid by everyone? I'd like that to come up with some openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u74	I first presented an electric car plan in 2013. Then I got a BMW i3 on the Square. I don't know what that other car was anymore, I think it was a Zoe. Tesla refused to put a car here, because he didn't want to get involved with a party like GroenLinks. I didn't have any contact with the supplier back then either. At that time, on the Tesla platform, I asked myself if people wanted to come. Then there were individuals who put their Tesla here on the Square. I was in a Tesla with the director of Nuon. I drove two laps in a Tesla at the Olympic Stadium. By the way, people from the CDA were also invited to this. Unfortunately, they didn't come. For the Paris Climate Conference, we organised an electric-auto rally from Amsterdam to Eindhoven. I opened the first electric charging point at Van der Valk there. This is all organised by clean energy producers from Overijssel and Twente, not Tesla.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u75	We are talking about an amendment by GroenLinks, which involves EUR 10 million. That benefits CEOs who have a Tesla. I'm surprised about that, because if you're a CEO and you can drive a Tesla, it doesn't matter to pay normal taxes on that last €50,000. In what way does GroenLinks meet people with low income who also want to drive electric and economical?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u76	I think that is a very good and rightful question from the SP. Again, if I could choose to keep the lease adjustment of the most expensive cars high and spend that money on something else, I'd love to do it. I am also very much in favour of ensuring that that type of electric cars is more within reach, that hybrid leasing cars are within reach of people with a normal salary and a normal scholarship, and that there are enough charging facilities so that you can drive up and down with such a car. But I would also like to see a clean competitor for those heaviest, most polluting cars, which are much on the Dutch roads, and also for the most polluting taxis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u77	Unfortunately, reality is different, because the 10 million that now goes to the CEOs with a Tesla comes from low-income people. People who drive business in a normal car of €10,000, €20,000 who are not electric but are running on ordinary fuel, will soon have to raise 10 million, going directly to a small select group of CEOs. We have also had this debate with the former chairman of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, Mr Van Ojik. Thanks to his efforts, we have been granted this limited exemption. I really do not understand why it is necessary to depart from that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u78	I've been trying to explain in about five or six interruptions that you need to drive a transition. Sometimes this is what needs to be done with these measures. It is not the case that we increase the tax on others. We're lowering her a little bit less. Instead of going from 25% to 22%, it goes from 25% to 22.1%. This isn't for the two of us hooking up a used car. This is for lease drivers, whom we, like the SP, would much rather see on the train or on the bus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u79	You were at the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u80	I don't know what the end of my term was. I'm looking at my cheating note, but I've come to an incredible end thanks to the many interruptions. By the way, thanks for all the interest in the GroenLinks plans for clean transport. It has happened many times that GroenLinks suggested something for the first time, everyone fell over it, a few parties were the first to come close over time and we then got a majority for it. I am convinced that electric driving in the Netherlands has a future and that we will get there. I have one final point. The Secretary of State's policy runs until 2020. The evaluation will take place in 2018. What happens after 2020? That's a bit along the lines of the growth targets, because if you want to move on, you have to do it afterwards. Part of the policy is that the hybrid car will be taxed a little more heavily in 2018 and 2019, but the figures of the Secretary of State do not indicate that we have already achieved the goals. Can the Secretary of State tell me what's going on? The way I see it, the stimulation and achievement of the goals are not equal. Normally you stop stimulating when you have reached your goal, not when you see yourself that your goal is actually getting further out of reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u81	I would just like to take a look at the colleagues before we go to Mrs Neppérus. We've had two speakers and we've been at it for an hour. If we continue at this rate, we will be at 23.30 hours at the end of the first term. I would like to suggest to all of you that you may sometimes agree with a question already put by a colleague if the idea behind it is the same. Of course, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u82	Mr. Chairman. The VVD finds the government's current plans on car tax profits for driving the Netherlands. All major taxes, i.e. the vehicle tax, the bpm and the highest percentage add-on, are generically reduced. Many private and business drivers benefit from this. It is not for nothing that the Secretary of State estimates that 90% of motorists will make progress. This is 90% of nearly 8 million motorists. This is a gain for all the people who need the car daily for their work or for bringing children away, and for the people who go on holiday by car, so for hardworking Netherlands. A car is not a luxury product, but it gives freedom to people who need the car badly, like many older people. The VVD therefore welcomes these car plans and the tax reduction. There is therefore a general tax reduction, but also the continued promotion of hybrid cars in particular is being addressed. All this tax incentives make the tax system unnecessarily complicated for citizens but also for the Tax Administration. It also leads to unfair competition: on price rather than on quality. Last year the Court of Auditors wrote that tax incentives are mainly expensive and the return is very limited. So the policy had gone through. The VVD does, however, support effective resource policies at EU level. It doesn't work, it doesn't cost billions. Ensure that the objective of cleaner cars is determined at European level and leave the way it is carried out to manufacturers. So, across the board, we're just satisfied. We think there's a good piece. However, questions still need to be asked. I also have them, for example, about the diesels, about which some things are in the pieces. I am particularly concerned about the intention to introduce a surcharge on the general vehicle tax from 2019 onwards. If there's one, what's in it for? I have already asked questions about this in previous rounds of the Car Letter, but I have also asked written questions about it. What's the payoff? You could use it to reduce the tax on motor vehicles, which would do good to all the citizens of this country and all the entrepreneurs. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to clarify this in his answers. Otherwise, I am considering tabling a motion to clarify it. The diesel surcharge doesn't make me happy either; I don't drive diesel myself, I say. That supplement doesn't make me happy, but there are also municipalities with environmental zones. You'll get a double tax, because you have a diesel charge for older cars and we'll support that part of the package, but then you'll also work with environmental zones in municipalities. You actually charge it twice. I understand from the cabinet letter that you should not deal with the problems of old cars in municipalities, but I do find environmental zones very heavy. Municipalities do something about environmental zones, but you are also working on a diesel surcharge. A motion was recently adopted by Mrs Visser, with the support of other parties, including the SP. I am curious to see what is going on with the implementation of this motion. Essentially, you want less diesel cars and older cars need to be replaced. You shouldn't punish them extra in an environmental zone. So I would like to know how the cabinet is doing to carry out that motion and how the cabinet is looking at my point that we should not have double taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u83	The Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment has indicated that the motion will be carried out mainly by not introducing national signs for environmental zones. For the rest, all local environmental zones with all the different provisions may remain in place. I wonder whether the VVD Group, which tabled this motion, which we also supported, is satisfied with the implementation of this motion by the VVD Minister and the VVD Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u84	I can confirm to Mr Omtzigt that there are leaders of the VVD, but we have made it quite clear once again that we also have responsibility as a group. We'll take that, too. We simply do not want environmental zones, certainly not the threat of double taxation of the diesel surcharge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u85	That's right, but the MP of the VVD is here asking how the government is carrying out the motion with the VVD. The government has told us how she's doing it, which is hardly anything. Minister Schultz of the VVD said don't make a road sign. Now the VVD member asks whether that is enough. I ask the VVD Group to take a position. Does the VVD Group think that the government has carried out this VVD/SP motion properly, or does it think that this motion has not been properly implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u86	I assume that Mr Omtzigt I know him well. He has clearly heard from me that I am not happy with the current situation and that I want more to happen. The motion makes it very clear that environmental zones must be stopped. I drove in Utrecht the other day, because I came from an area where there really was no public transport. I must have put a lot of stuff in my hybrid car, because you are in fact standing still all the time and that causes a lot of CO emissions. I want more to be done to carry out the motion. I don't want double taxation either. Hopefully the Secretary of State will take this concern away soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u87	There has been a clear answer. Ms Neppérus continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u88	If you think it's clear, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u89	Whether that's enough for you is different, but I wasn't talking about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u90	Apparently other colleagues find questions about environmental zones somewhat uncomfortable, but I do not want double counting. I also assume that the Secretary of State will undertake to do so. Looking at the whole thing there is a good Autoletter, which we as a group are happy with, because driving the Netherlands is finally going to pay less. That is essential for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u91	I hear too often that driving the Netherlands will pay less. This Secretary of State says 90% is progressing. However, this is a very important assumption, namely that CO emissions are decreasing by 3.7% a year. Many manufacturers in the field say that this is impossible for certain economical cars. They're already on such an economical tax; they'll never make it 3.7% a year. Does Mrs Neppérus agree with me that the small, economical cars that do not achieve the 3.7% reduction in this proposal are going to be more expensive and that the large, polluting containers, which still have a lot of room in the technology to achieve this saving, are going to be cheaper? Doesn't Mrs Neppérus think that this bill is counterproductive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u92	The answer is no. I understand from the industry I am a car driver of a hybrid car but not even a car manufacturer that it can have that effect and that CO emissions have fallen enormously in recent years. Let us be clear that all the explorations show that there is much less emissions. I assume that will continue, but I also assume that the Secretary of State will keep us informed about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u93	That 3.7% is an average. If such an enormous slurper gets 10%, they don't have to continue with CO reduction in those little cars. Does Mrs Neppérus agree with me that we should have an evaluation earlier than we have been announced today, I believe, so that we can avoid that counter-effect that I just outlined and we can adjust it on time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u94	I do not expect that effect, but it seems to me to be a good thing to be regularly informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u95	Mr. Chairman. I've heard a lot of colleagues here talking about a Porsch Cayenne. I find that very strange, because the brand "Porsch" does not exist; it is called "PorschE." I don't call Mr. Pechtold "Pechtol" either, do I? Let's just keep it on PorschE, please. It's a Porsche Cayenne. Porsche is a German family name and you just pronounce the "e." I am pleased with the draft legislative proposal before us on the preparation of Autoletter II. This is mainly due to the fact that the objectives of the legislative proposal are the simplification of tax legislation and that tax revenues could become more robust. The questions I have left with this proposal are in particular in line with the comments of the Council of State. First of all, I am pleased that 100% of the revenue from the proposal is being redirected to the car driver and owner. Absolutely right! It is quite good that the whole proposal can remain budgetaryly neutral in this way. The three objectives of this bill are to drive climate gains more efficiently, to make tax revenues more robust and to simplify car taxes. Personally, I would have preferred a different order. In my view, the first point on climate gains would have been point three. After all, as an opponent of the instrumental function of taxation, I believe that taxes are not meant to stimulate behaviour but to finance public services. With regard to making tax revenues more robust, the Council of State says that tax incentives are being reduced to make those revenues more robust, while, through a storage in the vehicle tax for older diesels, the tax base remains partly based on the level of emissions. If it becomes apparent that this measure causes behavior which causes older diesels to be exported massively to Africa, the tax revenue will therefore also decrease in the Netherlands. How is this taken into account in the State Secretary's revenue estimates? There is, in fact, a communication keg somewhere between the abolition of exceptions to standard tariffs on the one hand and the inventing of new exceptions on the other. In addition, the Council of State says that the simplification of car taxes, looking at the implementation tests of the Tax Administration itself, is apparently not very well served by this proposal. This has mainly to do with an addition cut in income tax, with the motor vehicle tax storage for older diesels and with the separate tariff table for the maleized plug-in hybrids. More importantly, I think the Council of State's remark that the other measures have no impact on complexity. If you add one and one together, the result is that, on balance, there is no simplification, but perhaps even an increase in complexity on balance. I would like to receive a further explanation from the Secretary of State. How can he defend the view that car taxes as a whole are, on balance, made easier by this proposal? Does simplification also apply to the Tax Administration itself? For example, after the introduction of this proposal, could FTEs be released for other tasks, such as vertical book checks? I come back to LPG, which is not really mentioned anywhere in this proposal. I remember very well that in my early years the LPG tank in the car was on the rise and that it took place mainly in the Netherlands. In recent years, however, I have clearly seen a turnaround. Lpg is somehow "out." According to industry figures, this year alone, the number of cars sold with an LPG installation fell by about three quarters. When you look at the system of car taxes as a whole, the Secretary of State says that LPG still benefits from it compared to petrol or diesel. If that is the case, I would ask the Secretary of State why there is less and less driving on LPG when development is not stopped there either, as witnessed by the new types of plant, such as the G3 and now the R115. I would like to get a response, because I am considering tabling a motion on this point in the second term. Without wishing to stimulate any particular behavioural incentives, i.e. no reduction in a type of fuel such as LPG, there should be a level playing field between the various fuels. Why should the phasing out of the tax facilities for plug-in hybrids go so slowly? Why not simplify and enhance the robustness of the system by aligning this line with new plug-in hybrids as of 1 January 2017? Finally, there is another question about the full electric cars......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At present, the Tesla brand has practically the exclusive right in that market. This favours the Californian producer and owner of this brand through tax facilities in the Netherlands. I think that's completely ridiculous. Does the Secretary of State have an overview of the market development of fully electric cars up to €50,000 in the next few years? Is there really anything to choose with a usable range of action? And if so, will we not be faced with a disappointing tax return again? Mr Omtzigt also said it: you are making a lot of fun in comparison to everything else, so there is a movement to see towards these kinds of cars immediately. In short, I support the main thrust of the proposal before us, but I would like to answer my questions about the simplicity and robustness of the yield, as the Council of State has also pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u96	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the speedy elaboration of the legislative proposal after a long and sometimes emotional debate. It may be clear: the Labour Party supports this new law on car taxes. With this bill, the car tax becomes fairer, simpler and better focused on real environmental gains. The long-term erosion of tax revenues comes to an end and yet driving is cheaper for by far the majority of people. The road tax and the purchase tax are going down, there will be a new tax on polluting diesels and most importantly, as far as we are concerned: we are fully committed to tax incentives for full electric driving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u97	I understand that it was an emotional debate for Mr Groot, because I assume he was getting tears in his eyes when he saw the environmental impact of this bill. 10% dirtier cars, 22% new dirtier cars in the lease. How can Mr Groot say that he is going to support this when we hear from his colleague Jan Vos at the same time that the car is the new cigarette and I do not know what it is? Mr Groot is making that cigarette here today just dirtier and cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u98	We are fully committed to the technique of the future, so full electric driving. That's why we're getting everything out of the closet. We encourage this even more than what, for example, an organisation like Nature & Environment advocated. He wanted a 7% add-on, we wanted a 4% add-on. At the same time, however, we are sensitive to the analyses of, for example, the General Court and the OECD that the cost per avoided tonne of CO increased to €3,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u99	That's not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u100	So you can continue to make full use of the subsidies for all kinds of cars, but if that means that all these tax subsidies are leaking out abroad, you will not get much of a deal out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u101	This was apparently the rehearsed answer, but the essence is that it was not an answer to my question. Is it true or isn't it true that new cars are getting 10% dirtyer? Is it true or isn't it true that new lease cars are getting 22% dirtyer? Is it true or is it not true that the Porsche Cayenne will be cheaper for an individual? And is it true or is it not true that, where there would ever be 200,000 electric cars, there would be 100,000 less as a result of this bill? Four times a clear "yes" is mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u102	The number of electric cars is developing much faster than even TNO expected, so the penetration of these new cars is going very well. The bpm's going down. This has an understandable cause, because the Secretary of State has convincingly argued that the BPM is increasingly being eroded by semi-illegal imports or exports of cars. So yes, the cars are getting cheaper across the board. The Mercedes 500 will also be cheaper. But in proportion, economical cars become even cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u103	With respect, this was not an answer to my question. Is it true that new cars are getting 10% dirtyer, that new lease cars are getting 22% dirtyer and is it true that there are 100,000 fewer electric cars according to TNO? Mr Groot has a very long answer, but it is about that question. Can I just answer my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u104	You have made your point, but Mr Groot is talking about his answer. I give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u105	I sympathise with Mr Groot. We find the PvdA on a change of the Netherlands often on our side. We also support, of course, Mr Vos' motion, which has just been mentioned, to seek only emissions-free cars by 2025. Now Mr Groot has to defend this letter here tonight. That must be quite a complicated task. I would nevertheless like to look at the objectives set out in the energy agreement. Like GroenLinks, the PvdA is committed to implementing the energy agreement. If I look at the figures provided by the Secretary of State himself, this cabinet expected, with its original policy, that there would be about 180,000 hybrid and electric cars by 2020. With the Car Letter that's in front of us, this goes down to about 100,000. So that's going very, very wrong. The PvdA agrees with me that if you want to reach 200,000, the cabinet should not set its policy so that it reaches 100,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u106	If we know one thing about the car market in recent years, it is that financial incentives work very strongly and that surprises all the people who make estimates. We have seen in the note on the report that the number of electric and semi-electric cars in the first quarter is already above 90 000. According to TNO, that level was not foreseen until the end of this year. So we're way ahead of schedule. We are in favour of the very powerful stimulation of fully electric cars. There are many new affordable models on the market. We think this new technology is going to fly and we're going to get these numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u107	We will soon hear from the Secretary of State whether he also thinks that the figures he himself gave to the Chamber are incorrect and that they should be raised by 100%. Instead of what he writes, namely that this policy will be 100,000 by 2020, it should be 200,000. When we hear that, I'm very happy. But suppose we don't hear that, do we find the PvdA on the side of the parties that say: then you will have to pull a little more out of the box to achieve that number? If you want to grow to 1,000,000 by 2025, you must have achieved your first goal by 2020. Doesn't the PvdA agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u108	What if... we're not there yet? I can now see that we have opted in this Car Letter for a powerful stimulation of fully electric cars. There are a lot of new models on the market. That market is really going to fly. If you're asking me what the real bottlenecks are, you should look for them in the charging infrastructure, the number of charging posts. I think it's much more important to support that. I tabled a motion on that last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u109	Mrs. Van Tongeren, one last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u110	Then why did the PvdA vote against my motion to extend the green deal loading posts further, if it is to be sought mainly in the loading pole infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u111	I don't know this motion specifically. Maybe I should've known that one. I know I filed a motion last year. They also mentioned incentives to purchase plug-in hybrids for private individuals. The emphasis in that motion was in supporting the construction of an electric charging infrastructure. I will continue my speech. It was high time for this new law, because the current car taxes are a classic example of how the road to hell is paved with good intentions. What we have now, no one's happy. Many hundreds of millions of tax subsidies have been leaked to expensive plug-in hybrids, which in practice are often not economical at all because they mostly run on petrol. One car factory alone went to 200 million euros. Because of this tax overstimulation, there are almost as many plug-in hybrids in the Netherlands as in Germany and France together. That tax bonanza is coming to an end now. Another problem was the opaque forest of addition rates, bpm discs and mrb discounts. I've been talking to the car dealership a lot lately. The image that emerged from that is that of a tax lottery. The car that is just below a certain CO limit cannot be towed, while cars that fall just above the line are no longer sold at all. Then you can no longer speak of a healthy market. The treasury is the great loser of this tax lottery, and the environment, why it's all to do, is barely winner. If the cost per avoided tonne of CO goes up to €3,000, then cost-effectiveness is far to be desired. A large part of our tax subsidies leaked abroad, the so-called waterbed effect. Institutes such as TNO, the OECD and the Planning Office for the Environment have rightly criticised this. Instead of tax subsidies leaking abroad, we are opting for an accelerated energy transition in our own country. We choose radically and for a long time to stimulate fully emission-free cars, because that is a real energy transition and the technology of the future. I have a few more questions about this car bill. There will be a new storage in the vehicle tax for old diesels without a soot filter in 2019. Is that really supposed to take that long? Mr Bashir has already asked for this. What problems do previous imports stand in the way? Couldn't that be possible in 2018? Could the cabinet support this, in view of the increasing understanding of the harmfulness of particulate matter to health? In an earlier debate we received a long list of the many exemptions for the MRB and bpm. In a general discussion, I said earlier that it would not seem productive for the Chamber to hold a separate debate on each regulation. I have therefore asked whether the cabinet itself can propose simplification on the basis of a concise cost-benefit analysis per scheme. Is the objective of the tax facility still in place and are the costs proportionate to that objective? That's a promise. What about this and can we expect such a proposal in the 2017 Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u112	Mr Van Weyenberg has a question on an earlier point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u113	I get the impression that Mr Groot is thinking: let me make a lot of speed so that this is over quickly, because I am defending a very painful tour. After Mr Vos's fine words, this is a serious blow to Mr Groot; I understand that. He was just very proud of the growth of the number of electric cars, but there was an anticipation effect to see. Because the government would make it less attractive, people have made quick use of the old arrangements. This has nothing to do with the success of the old policy. I have another question. Is it true that there are 100,000 fewer plug-ins and 1,000 more electric cars due to this letter? And is it true that the new emissions of these cars make it 10% dirtyer in the Netherlands? Mr Groot refused to answer that question in an earlier round. He plays the story here that it's all so green, but just let him answer the questions. Is it true that new cars are going to emit 10% more CO with this bill? Just yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u114	Our firm expectation is that the full electric car will break down in the coming years because there will be a lot of manufacturers. Tax policy is designed to accommodate this breakthrough. That is where the great growth will take place. We simplified the rest of the car taxes and made them a little more reasonable. We have also made sure that less subsidy is leaking abroad. That seems to me to be a more rational system, with, in the long term, a uniform addition rate of 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u115	It's starting to bother me. I know that Mr Groot is talking about his own answers, but I am asking a very specific question. I'm gonna do that for the fourth time, and I don't want to hear that electric cars are doing so well. This letter will add 1,000. That is light years away from the fine words of colleague Jan Vos of the Labour Party. Why is Mr Groot not honest and doesn't he just say: this law has been passed by TNO and new cars become 10% more polluting? That's what's in TNO's wire transfer. Why doesn't Mr Groot want to acknowledge that? I understand it's painful. I understand that the Labour Party apparently simply signed up for this. But at least be honest about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u116	According to the same TNO bill, we would not reach 90,000 electric cars until the end of this year. We're at that level already. I say to Mr Van Weyenberg: the breakthrough of fully electric cars is imminent. A lot of new models are coming into the market. We will see a huge increase in fully electric cars on the market in the coming years. We are encouraging this very strongly in fiscal terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u117	Mr Van Weyenberg, of course, has a point. The proposal now before us is going very far on the business side. Especially the more polluting cars get more benefits. We have now put forward an alternative, in which the lease driver gets less tax relief, he still gets less tax relief, but less tax relief, and we use the advantage to give the private market something back. Can the PvdA Group support our proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u118	Does Mr Bashir mean the proposal to increase the add-on rate to 23? Firstly, the addition rate is already rising considerably. If you look at what has actually been paid in addition over the past few years, you can see that half of the cars had an addition rate of 14. The industry wanted 20% and it has turned 22%. So we have achieved a significant increase in this. That's reasonable. It was once 25%, as Mr Bashir said. There have been some developments that may give cause to think that percentage is too high. One must remember, then, that cars have become more economical and thus fuel costs have been reduced and cars last longer, reducing depreciation. That justifies a slightly lower add-on rate. The Secretary of State does address this issue in the note on the basis of the report, but I have not yet seen very well whether that percentage of 22% is exactly appropriate and whether there is still room to increase it. I would like to hear that from the Secretary of State when he gives an opinion on Mr Bashir's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u119	We propose not to increase the add-on, but to reduce the add-on and use the revenue for the private market. I would point out, however, that the addition can never be higher than the car costs that the entrepreneur may deduct. The entrepreneur thus always benefits from the lease car, because if the addition is higher than the cost for the lease driver, it will be corrected to the maximum amount of the costs. Also in our proposal, the entrepreneur who drives economically and uses little of the car will not go backwards. I would be pleased if Mr Groot could see the proposals he has just made all being endorsed in the Upper House. That's why he needs us. I would say: look very carefully at our proposal, because with it we are going to really support greening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u120	We will certainly take a good look at that proposal, but I would also like to have some support for that 22-year add-on rate. It seemed reasonable to me at first sight. I would like to stress once again: Mr Bashir says that the addition rate is going down, but it is going up effectively in this letter, because most of the cars that were leased were in an addition rate of 0, 7 and, in many cases, 14. That has already been raised in 2016 and we are now going to increase it to 22%. That is an effective increase and not a decrease.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u121	I'm a little annoyed by those fine words about an emission-free transition, which the PvdA is such a supporter of. A motion was even adopted yesterday which states that by 2025 we will have to drive non-emission cars with electric cars. Does Mr Groot know that the electricity from these electric cars comes from a nuclear power station or does he have a magic wand with which he suddenly draws out electricity? Does Mr Groot know that such an energy company uses a lot of fossil fuel? It may not come from the exhaust of the car, but it does come from the fact that 30 additional power plants are needed, it comes from those big pipes near Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u122	We are having a debate today on car taxes and we are not having an energy debate. It is clear that there is a way to go when it comes to more environmentally friendly energy generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u123	There is certainly a way to go, but what matters to me is that the people are being fooled into thinking that an electric car is so green and so fantastic. That energy, however, comes from power plants. I have read several studies today which show that an electric car, if you like a Tesla, is as polluting as a Volvo S60 Diesel. Mr Groot preaches to the people that everyone has to go electric, but he actually says: we all have to drive a Volvo S60 Diesel. That's what he's saying, and that's what he's encouraging with the package of lower addition, exemptions, mrb, etc. That doesn't help the environment, but it does help the CEOs of Mrs Van Tongeren. The environment is not getting any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u124	I believe that there is a consensus among all the experts that the transition to electric driving will bring significant environmental benefits. This environmental gain will increase as energy generation becomes more sustainable. Comments were made on LPG. Mr Van Vliet also spoke about it. In earlier AO's, I've also drawn attention to it. The number of LPG cars is falling so fast that, if we are not careful, this relatively clean energy will disappear at the pumping stations. I read in the note following the report that the load on LPG per kilometre driven is low, even lower than on electricity. I have the same question as Mr Van Vliet. How does the Secretary of State explain that the number of LPG drivers is falling so quickly? Is that perhaps due to the amount of fuel surcharge that LPG drivers have to pay? Can the Secretary of State say where the turning point for LPG drivers is? From what number of kilometres does it become more attractive to drive LPG? If the turning point is too high, doesn't that give rise to a reduction in the fuel surcharge? I have a question about Volkswagen's scams software. It seems to have also occurred to a small extent in the case of CO emissions. The Secretary of State states in the note following the report that he will have more clarity at the end of this month about the tax advantages that Volkswagen may have wrongly received. Does the Secretary of State know the latest news about this? Finally, the electrical charging infrastructure. The cabinet is fully committed to electric cars, and that is what we think is right. We see that the car industry is responding to this, because new affordable models are coming onto the market. The real big bottleneck is then sufficient loading posts. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the motion I tabled on this point last year? So much for my questions. However, as far as my group is concerned, this car tax law is a major step forward. Fair, simple and with less resources more environmental benefits, thanks to an unambiguous commitment to zero-emission driving in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u125	Yeah, and 10% dirtier new cars. I have a question about something on which great profits have been made. I have here the consequences of this law for the addition. I'm assuming you lease a car for five years. A person who drives a Peugeot 308 gets an addition that is about €150 per year higher. He will therefore pay €750 more thanks to Mr Groot. Someone who leases a Mercedes S500 has a total of €25,000 less addition in that same period. Someone who drives a Porsche Cayenne also has €25,000 less addition. If you think: well, I'll only take an Audi Q5, you'll still get about $12,500 on it. But not in that Peugeot, not in a small car. Then you will pay more Mr Groot will have to explain to me exactly what is social democratic about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u126	All cars are getting cheaper across the board. Small, economical cars become relatively more attractive. Of course the bpm will be finished. That's a slow process. If you reduce the bpm percentage, expensive cars benefit more from that than small cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u127	I was talking about the add-on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u128	In addition, a gradual increase to a general rate of 22 was chosen. That is the simplification agenda. All cars tax the road and everyone has to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u129	It is clear when we complete the question and answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u130	I thought Mr Groot was ready. Everyone has to pay a bit, but it's clear: if you drive a Porsche Cayenne, you will get €25,000 less tax in a lease period thanks to Mr Groot. If you drive a Peugeot 308, it is €750 more. If those are the principles of the PvdA, they really are in the dirt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u131	Driving is becoming cheaper for 90% of people and I also insist that it is particularly attractive to drive economical and cheap cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u132	Mr. Chairman. Already in the previous discussion of the cabinet's plans in the Autobrief, my group made no secret that we are not a fan of this letter. I then called it a dirty letter, a polluting letter, a letter that leads to fewer electric cars in total. That is going to be 100,000 less, and Mrs Van Tongeren was right to ask about its impact on the objectives of the energy agreement. The new cars that are being sold are also getting 10% dirtyer when it comes to CO emissions. Mr Groot can claim that this letter is very good at high and low and with tears in his eyes, but the figures in the TNO account do not lie. The number of heavily polluting cars is also increasing, if only because, for example, the Peugeot 308 is being taxed more heavily through the addition and some very expensive cars are being reduced. The result is that, as far as my group is concerned, the Letter of Cars is going crazy and is a step backwards in terms of sustainability and fairer taxation. It is clear that my group wants to pay towards use in the end. From this year on, the cabinet will be involved, although it has no ambition in this area. We've been talking for three months, and I'm curious to hear if anything has come out of that conversation. Every time, the Secretary of State says: "Yes, yes, but we have source policy. We have source policy! It's a waterbed. So what I'm doing here doesn't really matter, because other countries sell a dirtier car when a cleaner one is sold in the Netherlands." If we had used this argument about environmental and climate policy and if the Labour Party had used it, we would never have taken one step there. The question now is how ambitiously we will be able to strengthen these targets in the coming period. The Secretary of State has high expectations and I therefore ask him what the exact Dutch commitment is and how it actually works in Europe. What does the Secretary of State think of the fact that diesel gate showed that cars do not meet the NO emission standard at all? However, the manufacturers of these cars have simply been rewarded by Europe for that bad behaviour, because that famous source policy now simply allows them to keep up with those higher than actual emissions for much longer. Is that supposed to make me trust you? The second point I would like to raise is the very old polluting diesels, which should actually be removed from the road as soon as possible. Those cars are gonna blow out 30 to 100 times more. Now there will be a surcharge on the vehicle tax, but it can only start from 2019. I regret that, and I believe that many colleagues do that to me. The Secretary of State claims that the systems of the Tax Administration really cannot do anything else, and I think it is good that he confirms that again in this Chamber today. If he says that, I believe him, but I regret it very much, I would like to have said it here, because we have to wait a very long time now. Motorists, who are in possession of a very old diesel car that emits a lot of non-clean air, have to pay a surcharge. This surcharge of €5.17 per month is much higher for people with a private car than for people with a business van. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this is a very limited incentive to replace that dirty diesel van? Wouldn't it be better to bring it more into line with the way people who have such an old diesel car are treated? Is the Secretary of State prepared to show a little more ambition there? I am considering tabling an amendment on this. In addition, of course, D66 wants to promote the transition to zero-emission driving: the sooner, the better. We are still waiting for the great motion to be drawn up on the Formula E team, the only point on which Mr Groot and I can agree in this debate. The purpose of this motion is to ensure that electric driving is also accessible to a private car driver. We would have liked to have seen this in conjunction. Now is always one of the defense lines of the cabinet and of PvdA and VVD: yes, but we are going to do things in that. But what that is, we do not have here at all. So my group cannot judge that either. In particular, my group is concerned about hybrid exports. They are heavily fiscally stimulated at first; that is true. Maybe they're too much of an incentive, too. Steps have been taken back before. Those hybrids are gonna be out of the lease soon. The Secretary of State then says: no, they are not yet exported to other countries; and if they do, well, then it is also good for the European climate. I have two problems with that. Firstly, in addition to CO emissions targets, there are simply clean air targets, the fact that we want to do something about, for example, the dirty air in our cities. In view of this, I would be very happy if those hybrids would continue to drive in the Netherlands. Secondly, the Secretary of State says that exports are not as fast as they are. No, you get the cuckoo, 'cause they're not out of the lease yet. However, this is increasingly happening in the coming years. I have given up hoping to change the mind of the Secretary of State and the coalition with amendments, but I do have a request, and I am considering a motion on this. Is the Secretary of State prepared to monitor every six months from now what happens to the hybrids that come out of the lease? Then we can see very well whether they stay or are exported in the Netherlands. By the way, if it turns out that they are mostly exported, the cabinet should, as far as I am concerned, take a very close look at whether it does not want to remain on the half-rate instead of going to the three-quarter rate from 2019. Is the Secretary of State prepared to increase that monitoring for that purpose? I think it is relevant whether these hybrids are exported. When it comes to the transition to zero-emission driving, of course you should not look at one technique. That is why I too have concerns about the differences in technology between hydrogen cars and electric cars. That is not the philosophy of this Secretary of State. There has been hard lobbying by the car industry towards Tesla, a major competitor. It must be a coincidence that the hydrogen car is being developed by Toyota.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u133	Mr Groot has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u134	I have a question about the plug-in hybrids. Do I understand correctly that Mr Van Weyenberg wants to keep the plug-in hybrids in the Netherlands, which only wants to stimulate through the MRB and that he has abandoned his previous plan to grant purchase subsidies for the private sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u135	There are more roads that lead to Rome. The purchase subsidy is the expenditure side. If I had proposed something to that effect, Mr Groot would have started to talk about the separation between revenue and expenditure. I'm waiting with great interest. I asked for money to be released to do so, among other things. I hope that will be taken up in the drafting of Mr Groot's motion. I asked for this earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u136	When those plug-in hybrids come out of the lease, they're usually five to six years old. At a normal depreciation rate you are expected to arrive at amounts that many individuals can afford to pay, or does Mr Van Weyenberg disagree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u137	Well, that's gonna have to come out. I have concerns about that, especially in view of the cut-off in that disc that the cabinet is planning. In 2019 another piece of that will go off. I'm really worried about the affordability. Of course, you're buying a heavier car. Such a three-quarter rate is not because of the subsidy, but rather a compensation for the fact that these cars are heavier because of the battery alone. So I really think there's something to be said for that. I now refer to a tax measure. I am very curious as to what is going to happen on the expenditure side when Mr Groot's motion is drawn up. I have already mentioned, for example, the guarantee on batteries, also a point which may stand in the way of private individuals, or a purchase subsidy, for which we have already made proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u138	In principle, Mr Groot, we are doing the interruptions in two, but you were very short. So I'm admitting a short third.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u139	So Mr Van Weyenberg says: there has already been a great deal of subsidy to the plug-ins; then we do a round subsidy over it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u140	I understand that Mr Groot is even starting to take over the VVD rhetoric. It's getting weirder. The core is, of course, a very different one. You want the car that comes out of the lease to be purchased by a private individual. These are cars that are simply heavier because of the battery and therefore more expensive in the purchase. There are also some new risks, for example: how does the battery hold up? So I don't think this is a silly proposal at all. I like to keep these cars here for clean inner cities and I hope that Mr Groot will do the same. Mr. Chairman. I'm here to talk about the loading posts. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the speedy implementation of the motion submitted by D66 and GroenLinks. Mrs Van Tongeren said this as well. We have taken a really nice step; I know that there has been a lot of work on the public loading posts. My compliments on that. I do have some questions about the calculations behind it. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about this too. A lot of experts have questions about the way it is going; the equalization of a liter of fuel to a kWh. It sounds very technical and leads to pictures about the load per kilometer. That would be an argument that the energy tax on charging stations is not a problem at all, so apart from the problem that is now fortunately being solved. However, I do have questions about it. It's a little bit like there's two households that both heat their homes at 2°C. One household does that with a very nice hot water pump and the other with a 30 year old central heating boiler. And then you say: the tax is the same, because they pay the same tax per 1°C heating. But that is of course not relevant; the question is whether they pay the same tax for the energy used. In this context, I ask the Secretary of State to change these pictures and look at the emissions in joules and the tax on megajoules. In my view, electricity is still heavily taxed there. I would like to get a reaction and preferably also a table from the Secretary of State, because I can put it next to my own calculation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to also consider whether we can just make one fixed low rate for all loading posts, not just for the public? I know this is complicated, but would he like to look at that? If he now requests a derogation in Brussels in order to implement the step he intends to take again, and for that I would like to thank him and congratulate him, can he at least ensure that the derogation provision gives the freedom to take another step forward in the future, so that we do not run into problems again if we also want to do something for the private loading posts? Then I come to my last two points. There are many sectors with an exemption on car taxes, such as fire trucks, police cars, vans and taxi transport. These sectors now have no incentive to drive more economical and cleaner cars. Actually, that's crazy. Through taxation we have over 50 exemptions and exceptions. They provide 70 people in the Tax Administration and cost the taxpayer EUR 4.5 million per year in implementation costs. I would like to simplify this by removing it from taxation as much as possible. For example, you give sectors the maximum interest in buying an economical car, especially more important than now. This is very complicated. We've talked about it before. I challenge the Secretary of State. Is he willing to send a reconnaissance to the Chamber in which he indicates how you could reduce these exemptions, in whole or in part, and how you can then redirect the money back to the sectors concerned? Then the fire department no longer gets a low mrb on fire trucks, but goes extra money to the firefighters so that they can buy a firefighter car independently of tax choices, and then preferably a bit economical. The same applies to taxis and vans. I know there are limits to this, but I would like to have this well sorted out and calculated. Will the Secretary of State do that? How much can you put that money back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u141	Mr Groot has another question for you on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u142	Probably my last, Mr. Chairman, but it's an important one. I have made a similar proposal for simplification. Last summer we could have done a whole exercise with all the deductions that are at stake. At that time we could have made a major simplification impact on the tax review, but D66 ran away from the table. Isn't that a chance you missed with retroactive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u143	Cute: there has to be an attack back. Look, it's very simple, there were no proposals at that time that we thought were sufficiently ambitious at that stage. We note that, in many debates on simplification, the cabinet did not want to do so at a later date. There was also very little support at the PvdA for what D66 submitted in the run-up to the Tax Plan, at Prinsjesdag and so on. So I think it is a rather easy comment from Mr Groot. As far as the car tax is concerned, I challenged him to achieve simplification, including around the Car Letter. The Cabinet is looking at the Chamber here. I would now like to propose a simplification and ask you to look into it. Then I'm not getting ahead of myself. I'd like to know. I hope, then, that Mr Groot will support it. If he puts forward a concrete proposal today, I will look into it with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u144	Now Mr Van Weyenberg is doing what he accused me of. Last summer, car taxes were also the subject of discussion during the tax review. Then Mr Van Weyenberg could have done business with the coalition. Everything was negotiable. There is no question that there were no ambitions. Those ambitions were there, but they were curtailed by the fact that parties were off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u145	We can get this whole cow out of control again. The Labour Party tried to play an interesting game. I note that the inherent motivation at the PvdA to arrange this is apparently not so great, because we have never heard of it again. Mr Groot calls it now, just like I do. I will table a motion on it in the second term. Let's get to the bottom of this. Let's get to the bottom of this. I hope to find Mr Groot on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u146	I'm surprised. Mr Van Weyenberg is very critical of this bill: it is dirty, dirty and should not have come to the Chamber this way. At the same time, I hear Mr Van Weyenberg say that he will not table any amendment to improve the legislative proposal. So D66 is going to vote against it anyway, I understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u147	I didn't say that at all. I have just asked a question about the diesels and said that I am considering an amendment, so that is not true. It is clear that we are very critical, even in the previous debate, and that motions that we tabled at the time could not count on support in the Chamber. So the chances of us supporting this bill are not very great. If the environment is also dear to the SP and she also regrets that people with a smaller car sometimes have to pay more taxes, I would expect the same from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u148	The SP is also critical, but we are constructive-critical. We have also been accepted for this, namely as a co-legislator. We therefore have an amendment, which has now been tabled at the request of the President. That's why I'm surprised. Mr Van Weyenberg is very critical, but he does not come forward with amendments to do otherwise. I'm afraid we're about to get the same as we did with the Tax Plan. D66 was also critical at the time, but eventually just voted in favour without bringing anything in. Maybe we'll have that again in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u149	Well, hundreds of millions more for childcare; it's just what you don't call anything. It's a hell of a lot more than the SP ever pulled in, because it never does business. We are extremely critical of this concrete legislative proposal. The amendment is in preparation. It's crowded with the Legislative Office, so I'm not looking at that at all. They're working on it, so it's gonna be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u150	Let me first say that Mr Van Weyenberg was also critical of the Autobrief, so he is consistent in that regard and I await the amendments. I tasted from his whole speech when dealing with the Car Letter and now with the bill that cars would get dirtier if you reduced tax incentives. I have seen the OECD report and I have seen the Court of Auditors' report. It just says that this tax incentive has gone completely out of control and has only a limited environmental benefit. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u151	I welcome this question from Mrs Neppérus and, by the way, the words she started. As far as I am concerned, this is due to my earlier contribution, for which I am grateful. I understand things have to change. That is why a measure has already been taken for this Autoletter, for example around the hybrids. My group supported it. There is now a package that will lead to new cars being released 10% more and there will be 100,000 fewer electric cars. My group then says that this is going through and that this is not a good plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u152	The core stays intact, doesn't it? It's a few thousand electric cars. At the heart of the matter is that the Court of Auditors and the OECD say that tax incentives have gone completely out of control and that environmental gains are far too limited. Then you have to do something, don't you? I am glad that the cabinet has come up with a proposal. I know D66 as a financially sound thinking party. I imagine you'll support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u153	A measure has already been taken, for example around the hybrids. Once again, my group has supported it. There is now a proposal that makes an expensive Porsche in the lease €25,000 cheaper in a lease period of five years, a small Peugeot becomes more expensive and the polluting cars are going to emit more. We'll make a trade-off. We want to look at things, but this proposal has an impact on the environment and the climate that my group absolutely does not support. I do not think that is surprising from the point of view of Mrs Neppérus and her group's earlier approach to, for example, clean air areas, which were all considered to be nonsense. They're very consistent. My surprise about their coalition partner is a lot bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u154	Very briefly, Mrs Neppérus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u155	It's just my first interruption. But then we know D66 now. The environment can simply cost money and then double up. We'll know. Too bad. And that is when the Court of Auditors issued such a report last year. It's gone. I trust that Mr Van Weyenberg will think about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u156	As far as I'm concerned, this isn't an adjustment, it's a breakdown. This is going too far. Once again, my group has never opposed the introduction of a movement. We have supported this before. However, my group cannot be very enthusiastic about the impact of these measures on the climate, the environment and clean air.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u157	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the SP for handing out the amendment. I would also like to say to Mr Van Weyenberg that it would be nice if the D66 amendment were available for the second term so that the Secretary of State could respond. Cozy, it's like a D66 group meeting. But I'm not gonna let that go any further. I give the floor to Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u158	Mr. Chairman. In this debate, it is clear that the subject we are discussing this evening is always a subject of enormous concern. The car taxes are always reason for heated discussions. I always like that you can do that in this house. For the interim year 2016 we have already taken measures in the Tax Plan 2015. Now with the Autoletter II we look forward to the years 2017 to 2020. The challenges are great. The cabinet wants 200,000 semi-electric or electric cars to drive around the Netherlands by 2020. By 2035, all new cars in the Netherlands should be emission neutral. And if the PvdA motion that was adopted this week is to be carried out, even ten years earlier. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet continues to stimulate full electric driving over the next four years and thus goes a step further than the energy agreement, which included fiscal incentives until 2018. But it is also much needed, because there are currently only 9,000 fully electric cars driving around in the Netherlands. So we have a lot of work to do. This Car Letter runs until 2020, but the long-term objectives set out in the energy agreement, for example, go much further. What is the government's long-term view of the car tax system? On a number of points, the government reveals what further plans will be in the future, such as the abolition of the bpm. But the bigger picture is missing from this letter. The reductions in the bpm and the mrb are not or are hardly substantiated, other than that they lead to a budget neutral package. Now excise duties are the main source of revenue in auto-tax. That is, in fact, the tax on use. These revenues will fall as more electric cars are driven. At the same time, the revenue from the energy tax on electricity will increase. Can the Secretary of State give an idea of what the mix of taxes on mobility will look like from 2025 to 2030, if we want to achieve all the objectives that have also been endorsed by the Cabinet? Then I'll get to the bpm. The Secretary of State seems eager to phase this out. It's almost become some kind of ideological battle for him. The 12% reduction is very significant, especially in view of the budgetary losses already caused by CO policy in recent years. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the bpm does indeed fulfil a role in steering car purchases and that it would be unwise to abandon this steering mechanism altogether? Most of the 78,000 electric cars are already becoming almost 90.00, I believe the plug-in hybrids are involved. As a result of the tax incentives, the Mitsubishi Outlanders and Volvo V60s have not been dragging on in recent years. I would also like to take a look at our own voting behaviour. I have to admit that we have contributed to the fact that we have, in part, gone through the process of stimulating the plug-in hybrids. The CO2 emissions of these cars are often higher in practice than on paper, the bpm revenues and the revenue from the addition have fallen considerably in recent years and we have had to pay a high price per tonne of CO2 reduction. This has also been demonstrated by the Court of Auditors and the OECD. The Christian Union Group therefore supports the cabinet's proposal to substantially reverse the incentive measures for plug-ins, but I think that is the dilemma, even for this State Secretary at the same time, these plug-ins contribute to the target of 200,000 electric cars by 2020. In the years 2017-2020, many plug-ins come from the lease on the private market, up to 70,000 cars. My group wants to prevent us from throwing away the baby with the bathwater. The Secretary of State has opted for a half-rate in the MRB for the plug-in cars in 2017 and 2018, which will be converted into a three-quarter rate for 2019 and 2020. Is this, with a higher weight due to the batteries, enough to prevent these plug-ins from being exported massively after we first overstimulated them for years? Surely that would be quite a capital destruction, also because they contribute to achieving that objective of the Energy Agreement, which was endorsed by the Secretary of State and the Cabinet? I am also thinking of the private driver who bought a plug-in in good faith, who will soon be faced with a burden increase that he does not have so many alternatives for at the time. The alternative will be to return to the petrol or diesel car. The move to electric is quite large and expensive for the average family. Aren't we going to undermine our own objective? I'm afraid that could take a flight. After all, people buy a car for a longer term. They see that in 2017 and 2018 there is still a half fare, but that there will be a higher rate in 2019 and 2020. That's what they're going to anticipate. That is why I am preparing an amendment to maintain the half-price for plug-ins by 2019 and 2020, which will continue to be of interest to the private sector as well as to the choice of a conventional car. I'm sorry the amendment isn't here yet, Mr. Chairman. They're working very hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u159	It is indeed busy at the Legislative Office. It is very nice that at least an attempt is made to have it on time. That applies both to you and to Mr Van Weyenberg and to other groups. It's not an obligation, I say again. However, it is always nice to hear the advice of the Secretary of State during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u160	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. We can see that ourselves. Thanks also to the Legislative Office, which is working hard. The diesel surcharge in the bpm is designed to discourage the purchase of a polluting diesel. This measure has also worked well. That is why I do not fully understand the Secretary of State's ratio to reduce this supplement by 12%. The diesels subject to a surcharge benefit from the generic bpm reduction. Then why, according to the Secretary of State, is there still a need to reduce the diesel surcharge on top of that? I am also considering an amendment on this point. That's already in preparation. The Secretary of State expects a lot from the European source policy. This source policy, combined with the Dutch CO-dependent tax car policy, has in recent years led car manufacturers to sell relatively economical cars in the Netherlands, but also to sell less economical cars in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u161	I understand that these are two amendments. Do I also understand that one amendment covers the other? Is that how I'm supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u162	That is indeed the intention, but we are still calculating whether it is all going around. That's why there's still a little delay. I'm sorry, I can't do much about it. We're really doing the best we can. It is indeed the intention to put these two together, as it were, although I would like to table them as two separate amendments. I was at the source policy. With tax incentives for electric cars, this undesirable situation continues to exist in part, so what is saved in the Netherlands from CO below 130 grams per kilometre can, so to speak, still go into the air in Germany. We regret that. We also think that this is bad for all the money that is put in it. This could be overcome by looking at whether agreements can be made on a country-by-country basis in order to achieve this source policy. In the written reply, the Secretary of State states that this cannot be done at European level, but can he not attempt to pursue a more fair policy there? Otherwise, all our objectives do not make much sense. I would also like to ask whether the cabinet would like to work towards a more ambitious source policy. Steps are already being taken to achieve the CO2 reduction. As far as we are concerned, this could be more ambitious, because that is really effective, I repeat to the Secretary of State. I come to the last point: the 'from well to wheel' sustainability. Then you not only look at the driving but also at how everything is cheerful for that. If we are to bet everything on full electric driving in the coming years, then we must also ensure that this change actually leads to sustainability. This means that we need to make battery production processes more sustainable and that electricity for the charging stations must be produced in a sustainable way. I believe that Mr Van Vliet made a comment on this and rightly so, because if this electricity is not produced sustainably, it is not very sustainable. Then we will make a real contribution to reducing CO emissions. Is the Secretary of State willing to include this in the green deal for electric transport 2016-2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u163	I fully agree with the thrust of much of this argument, but certainly of the last piece, but is she aware that all public charging stations in the Netherlands supply green electricity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u164	I'm not aware of that. Mrs Van Tongeren knows a lot more about this than I do, but I can imagine that if we are going to get a lot more electric cars, a lot of people are going to charge their cars at home. And yes, I do have green electricity, but I can't guarantee that all of the Netherlands has green electricity. In fact, I'm sure it isn't. Then that point just stays.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u165	No, unfortunately around 18%, 20% of the Dutch electricity is clean, but this has been specifically taken into account at the loading posts, because the reproach is often: there you have the plug car; it runs on a coal power plant. Fortunately, this is not the case, but we share the ambition that there will soon be a lot more clean electricity in the Netherlands so that, if more cars come, they can also run on clean electricity in the Netherlands. Eventually, it should all be clean by 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u166	Yes. And I really relied on the loading poles, but let me put it this way: wherever that number is extended, it must also remain green electricity, as Mrs Van Tongeren also states.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u167	We too have green electricity at home despite the redness of my party. If I listen carefully to Mrs Schouten, she has a few comments here and there but is generally very positive about the legislative proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u168	"Very positive" is a very positive qualification. I understand some of the cabinet's choices, although we had made some greener choices. I have also seen Mr Bashir's amendment in which he proposes to spread the 23% addition to other categories of bpm or mrb for private individuals. I think that's an interesting thought. I will assess the proposals made by my fellow Members on the question of whether we can make some improvements to the cabinet's plans on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u169	That is good to hear, because in the end it is not just about greening but also about a fairer burden-sharing. I would be grateful if Mrs Schouten would also give that message to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u170	I have read Mr Bashir's amendment, which has been tabled. The only point is the way things are being rerouted, but I will ask him about that in the second term. That is, in fact, very general. If it is generally to the bpm, then it can also hit the Porsche Cayennes that are sold privately. Mr Bashir may need to clarify how he sees it. In any case, he must inform the Secretary of State of his intentions. That is what we will be basing our choice on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u171	Mr. Chairman. The PVV would prefer to lower taxes for all car owners. The Dutch motorist is the largest milk cow in Europe, perhaps in the world. In the Netherlands, we pay 1.4 billion for the purchase of new cars via the bpm, 8 billion in fuel taxes, 3.4 billion in vehicle taxes, 1.5 billion in provincial revenues, and I am not even talking about the addition to income tax. Maybe the Secretary of State can tell us how much money this is about. So it's already about 15 billion that we're taking away from 8 million car drivers. That's $1,700 per car owner. Add to that the maintenance and depreciation of the car and the Netherlands is the most expensive country in Europe. A car driver loses twice as much with €600 to €800 per month as a motorist in Germany. How is that possible? The PVV doesn't believe in tax making. That is what the old system tried to do, but the new system has not yet sufficiently distanced itself from it as far as we are concerned. People aren't thiefs of their own wallet. After all, a person who opts for an economical, small car pays less fuel, less excise duty, less VAT, and he feels that every time in the wallet. He saves money. The same goes for a lease driver. When I used to have a job where I could pick out a lease car, I also looked at a cheap lease car, because I wanted a low catalogue price. A low catalogue price means a low addition in absolute terms. People aren't crazy. Creativity incentives are unnecessary and, as proven, inefficient. The CO reduction has been paid expensively so far. The General Court charged us that the treasury has missed 5 billion since 2007 because of this greening madness. The cabinet paid more than 2 billion in CO reduction in 2013. In other words, the General Court calculated €3,000 per avoided tonne of CO, while the same tonne on the regular trading system may cost a tenner. So the cabinet bought a good feeling and paid 300 times too much. The system must be on the shovel; so much is clear. With the new system, this Secretary of State tries to steer more efficiently towards climate gains and achieve more robust tax revenues and simplification. Is this really achieved with this new Car Letter? I must point out to the Secretary of State that the addition is indeed becoming more robust and simpler, but the bpm remains a CO Christmas tree with even a separate table for plug-in hybrids. That's too bad. The OECD recommends reducing the differentiation of progressive CO reduction. Why didn't this happen? The fixed rate has indeed doubled, but the underlying CO rates are maintained and even tightened. The Secretary of State wants us to believe that the bpm is going down by 12%, but I don't see that. In particular, I do not see this because the Secretary of State assumes that CO emissions are reduced by 3.7% a year. How realistic is that? What's that based on? And does that apply to all categories of cars? Indeed, as I pointed out in the case of interruption, a slurper is easier to save than a very economical small car. It is not for nothing that the RAI and the BOVAG fear that especially the small, economical cars will only become more expensive with this system, because further CO2 reductions prove impossible to achieve. That will have a counterproductive effect in the future. Smaller cars become more expensive and large containers become cheaper. Is that what the Secretary of State calls "sending climate gains more efficiently"? Finally, I have to think about the PvdA-myth to let the whole of the Netherlands drive electric in 2025. The PvdA, like this Secretary of State, talks about zero-emission driving, but forget that electricity must also be generated. Even if you generate energy sustainably, this will be at the expense of other households that also need renewable energy. This sustainability only matters when the whole of the Netherlands uses 100% renewable energy, solar panels and windmills, and on top of that a car will be recharged sustainably. I can charge my car sustainably, but in order to recharge my washing machine sustainably, 30 additional power plants are needed in the Netherlands, so I am pre-calculated, which run on fossil fuel. That's why there's hardly any effect. Or, so I ask the PvdA straight to the man, is the PvdA in favour of nuclear power? Because then we can make a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u172	I'm not from the PvdA, but from the SP. So I cannot answer that question, but I do have a question for Mr Van Dijck of the PVV Group. As I understand it, he is concerned about the fact that many coal power stations need to be added to support the greening of the car park. However, I also understand that the PVV is not in favour of winning mills. Mr Van Dijck is concerned about coal power plants, but he is also against windmills. Why is the PVV against windmills? They will of course contribute to the greening, as well as the solar panels and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u173	It's very simple. We are opposed to subsidies and windmills operate on subsidies. If there was a windmill that could be put on the roof at my expense and not subsidised and if I had a free choice to put it on my roof, that would be my choice and not a problem. It turns out again that we have paid €3,000 per avoided tonne of CO emissions here for years, while it may cost a tenner. We hate the idea of making things work that we can send anything with subsidies. The same applies to electric cars. Of course, it's no problem if there's an electric car that's cheaper than a diesel or gasoline car and I choose to buy that car myself, but not with a freestyle link here, or 4% add-on there. We don't like that. It is up to the consumer to choose for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u174	I object that the PVV is against everything, never comes up with alternatives and tears everything down. In this case, plans of the PvdA are, quite rightly, broken down, but you are not dealing with anything yourself. For example, you do not propose to build or subsidise solar panels, or at least to support people in purchasing them. You're gonna squash everything, everything, but you're not gonna come up with anything. My question to the PVV spokesperson is: what is your proposal, what is your contribution to this debate, except for everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u175	I told you, we don't like subsidies. So you will never get a proposal from us to place solar panels with subsidies on any roof. In fact, we believe that subsidies prevent innovation. If there is a subsidy on solar panels, windmills or whatever, then the manufacturers will no longer have an incentive to encourage you to purchase solar panels, because you are already stimulated by that subsidy. If there is no subsidy, the manufacturer is much more stimulated to compete at a normal energy rate, just like a coal power plant. That's when you get innovation. Then you get the real greening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u176	I hear Mr Van Dijck talking about being completely out of touch with tax subsidies and about the feasibility of society. I understand. Mr Van Dijck has critical comments on the letter and on the legislative proposal that is now before us, but he does say: 'Hey, are those steps forward?' That's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u177	Again, I've studied it well. I think it's a missed chance that there's still some of that makeability, especially in the bpm. With the mrb on weight I can already imagine a bit more... that is a bit more robust... than with the bpm. I talked about that counter-effect if that 3.7% CO reduction were not achieved. I await the answer of the Secretary of State. As far as I'm concerned, it can't be that someone with a small, economical car is going to pay more bpm than someone with a big slurper. I'd say that's a counterproductive effect. It is a step in the right direction, but do not pin me on whether we will vote for it or against it. I shall leave it to the group to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u178	I felt a little challenged by the words of Mr Van Dijck. There is no doubt that a helping hand from the government is needed to stimulate new technologies, to break them and to allow them to be scaled. That's what you see in a lot of countries. This is also a very good thing for, for example, the competitiveness of the Netherlands. As far as energy generation is concerned, I note that windmills have become very large in the meantime. The yield increases quadratically with the wheel length, so if you build large mills, then the cost price goes down very quickly. Those mills can already set very competitive tariffs. So we also go to windmills that run without subsidies. I have another question for Mr Van Dijck. If he is totally opposed to subsidies, is he also opposed, for example, to tax facilities such as innovation boxes and investment and incentive schemes? Can we all get through that as far as Mr Van Dijck is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u179	As far as the windmills are concerned, all I know is that there is an SDE+ scheme. If a windmill were really competitive with a coal power plant, the SDE+ storage I pay every month would not be necessary. It raises 20 billion. I only know windmills as subsidies. Mr Groot may be talking about a little support in the back, but a little support in the back is something other than raising billions for greening and putting those things at sea. I don't believe in that. And indeed, I do not believe in innovation subsidies either. I believe in tax cuts. I want a low rate in the Vpb for every company in the Netherlands. Every company in the Netherlands understands that, if it is to survive in the long term, it has to innovate. Every product and every company has a life cycle. When companies, and especially the large companies that use all these innovation subsidies, have a nice product, they ask at the last stage if they can't score a subsidy on it. I don't believe in that. We need to move towards a low rate and an incentive for entrepreneurs to innovate themselves and be sustainable themselves. You're doing a durable job, and you feel it right in your wallet. There the helping hand of the government, that long arm of the PvdA, does not need to be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u180	Mr. Chairman. The Car Letter II is a step in the right direction as far as the CDA is concerned. The mrb is reduced, the bpm is reduced, the CO dependency of the car tax is reduced and for highly polluting diesel cars a roettaks has to be paid. We have discussed this letter in detail in committee, so I will not repeat all the points I have raised in it. However, I am very curious, especially after the last speech of all kinds of political parties, from the PVV to D66, by which majority this coalition wants to pass the Autoletter through the Upper Chamber. I remember the Tax Plan. Then Mr Van Weyenberg also changed at once as a leaf on the tree and perhaps we will have a similar situation. I'm very curious to know what negotiations are going on somewhere in a room. I accidentally look at the PVV or D66, or the SP, or the absent SGP, the Christian Union or the elderly parties. I don't know any of it. I want to make four more points. The first is about the reduction of CO. Billions of public money have been spent on stimulating economical cars. However, at European level, this has not actually brought environmental benefits. This plan also had a 4% addition for fully electric cars. This means that a car of €35,000 will cost a lease driver net €50 per month with 4% addition. Why do I call that amount? Tesla Model 3 goes into sale this week: €35,000. You can drive 300 kilometers, from 0 to 100 in three seconds and you're faster than any bolide. For the same reason, you can't drive a third-hand Volkswagen Lupo. According to the Nibud you pay $300 if you want to drive the smallest car there is and you have to pay for the gasoline and the like yourself. That's an incredibly big difference. I thought we learned from Volkswagen, Volvo and Mitsubishi Outlander. We have had a report from the General Court, which shows that it has cost hundreds of millions. But no. I predict that, in a year or six months' time, we will have an article in De Volkskrant stating how much these cars will be subsidised if this plan continues. After that, we will all be outraged by the General Court to ask how this could have happened. Indeed, a ton of CO costs €10 on the market and then we have again... how much was it, Chairman? You know a lot about that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u181	I'm just gonna change my hat. I ask Mrs Van Tongeren: €5 I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u182	€5. That's right. There are also some problems with that market, because market forces there are not yet optimal. There, some large industries are also given a great legacy. Anyway, if you want to get something out of that market, there are far more efficient ways to do that. At the Mitsubishi Outlander, the environment didn't yield anything either, because everyone kept on driving gasoline. That's gonna be different at the Tesla. I think it is a breakthrough technology, but should you subsidise it with thousands and thousands of euros per car in the mrb, in the bpm and especially in the addition? The CDA already had questions about this with the Autobrief I, by the way, together with the VVD and the member Van Vliet, at the time of the PVV. If only that amendment of ours had been adopted in its original form. That would have saved hundreds of millions. Is the Secretary of State prepared to encourage electric cars, but to take a real addition rate of, say, one percent or ten? Is he prepared to put an emergency stop procedure in the law, allowing him to immediately increase the count by AMvB and not to file a legislative proposal first? For example, a stock of many tens of thousands of cars cannot be placed on the market at a near zero rate. One of the recommendations of the General Court of Auditors, which has written several times on this subject, was: "Put together an annual overview of the budgetary impact of the policy on fuel-efficient cars and send it to the House of Representatives. Connect this overview to the results of the policy as much as possible. This is important for clarity." At the last survey this was still work in progress. Can the government promise that every year, for example, in the debate on accountability and the May letter, we will simply get an overview of what each new incentive measure costs, not a lot in the new letter, and about what the environmental impact and the effective environmental impact are? Then we can keep a finger on the wrist. We've talked a lot about one car brand here. Last time...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u183	Of course, there was a small amount of entrapment in that. I thought at first, "I'm just listening," but I can't help myself. Does the CDA agree that other types of measures may require similar action, for example the 1.25 billion which small and medium-sized enterprises receive discounts on the two main taxes on cars? Should we ask for a sudden emergency stop when it runs out of claws and it needs to be monitored? Or do we only monitor things that are necessary for the energy transition and say only to the importers of clean cars: that measure is still there, but we do not know whether it will be there in two or three months' time? This creates great uncertainty for only one particular group of car manufacturers and car suppliers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u184	This recommendation of the General Court was very specific about environmental taxes. If Mrs Van Tongeren also wants to report on one or two other exemptions annually, I am fine with that. I would suggest that Mrs Van Tongeren should tell us what they are, so that the Secretary of State for Finance can respond calmly and tell us whether it is wise to do so every year in May. By the way, I thought it was brilliant that someone thought that Teslatáks is going to pay the normal rate that the rest of the Netherlands will pay from €50,000. It is the Teslakórting, or the Nissan LEAF-kórting or the Renault Kangookórting. It's a discount. They never pay an extra tax; they pay up to the regular rate paid by the rest of the Netherlands. I have to say, it was okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u185	I rarely get compliments from the CDA, so I put this in my pocket. The 1.25 billion consists of 500 million bpm exemption and 750 million reduced rate of vehicle tax for the entrepreneur, so call the white vans. We would like more green vans, so we would like to monitor these different exemptions, to see at what rate the white vans are more sustainable. So apparently together with the CDA we ask the Secretary of State if that can be monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u186	Fine. I await the Secretary of State's answer. I hope, however, that we can limit this somewhat, so that we do not have an annual monitor on everything, but indeed only on the four or five most expensive measures. This measure is part of this; that is very clear. But I don't have to get a LPG monitor every year. I haven't forgotten the last lobby. He even delivered a personal ad, page-sized, to the undersigned MP in a national newspaper, a fiercely lobbying prince and all sorts of other things. The result was therefore the exemption of the Mitsubishi Outlander. I am very curious about this and I ask the Secretary of State to state very precisely what car brands have been in contact with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of EZ and the Ministry of I and M over the last three years, in order to argue for a particular car system. I want to know how many times and how. Then I am very curious about the result, including the amendments that are before us. So I'd like an overview of that. If there is any additional taxation, the CDA would prefer to reduce excise duties, not so much because we believe that excise duties cannot be high in themselves, but because we have not forgotten the problems in the border region. We ask the government to look into that. The second point is a point of a category which is in no way pathetic or which calls for pity on me. It's just a bottleneck that I suspect is going to perform. The more dirty cars currently covered by the 25% rate will be covered by the 22% rate from 1 January 2017. This means that for the new version of the car there is less addition than for the old version of that car. Based on that, you can construct all kinds of things. You can drive a new car. You can try to let the car in again, because then the moment of first admission applies. Is it not wise to bring those cars below the 22% rate for the purpose of implementation and fairness at that time if all other cars also pay a maximum of 22%? Or are we going to come up with systems again, so that they come under 22% via a U-turn or by taking over each other's license plates or whatever? Again, I am not saying this because I have sympathy for those cars, but because I have sympathy for the performance. The third point is that in the new Autobrief, fortunately, there is more taxing on the basis of the catalogue value and less on the basis of the environmental performance than in the old Autobrief. The selling price of a car is very easy to measure. It is not by accident that the Secretary of State for Finance bases almost all of his taxes on the transaction price. The VAT, the payroll tax, where the wage is the transaction price, the excise duty, then you still have to measure the quantity a little, but that usually also works as well as the tap water tax; it's all about the quantities or the transaction price. You can establish them fairly objectively and buyer and seller both have the opposite interest in fixing the price. One wants the price lower and the other wants the price higher. When taxing on an environmental basis, you have to measure the environmental performance properly and independently, otherwise you have a problem. Whatever you do, from the left hand side with the dirty diesels or from the right hand side, I wonder when we will finally get that decent measuring tool where the environmental performance will be more accurately assessed, we will find that measuring the environmental performance of cars is still just a mess and that the part of the load that is determined on an environmental basis is inherently unstable. Question 1: Last time we asked for a decent test; when will that decent test come? Question 2: At the time of that decent test, all cars in the Netherlands are placed in a different category, because it will show that there is another CO plate attached to it. Is everyone going to pay a different tax at the time? This question is somewhat in line with that of the VVD Group, because its feasibility could be difficult for the Tax Administration, let me add. The second environmental point concerns the motion of the VVD and the SP, which we have also supported, on the removal of environmental zones. Here it is proposed to introduce a roettaks. Those rocktacks are quite considerable for cars and is indeed not prohibitive for vans. €5 per month will not move people to buy another car, but also does not give them an action perspective to exchange that car. Other countries said at the time: we will also give you a premium to take that van to demolition and take a van with much better environmental performance. In fact, even cars with a subsidised exhaust system fall into that category. So it doesn't make any sense. Now we have two parallel systems. One was conceived by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment in conjunction with the municipalities. The other was created by the Treasury Department, by the Tax Administration. Of these two ministries, completely different cars are allowed to drive anywhere. Soon we'll get a catalogue where the taxpayer can drive what car. I don't think that's very desirable. Can the Ministers and State Secretarys of I and M and Finance talk to each other and make a joint plan for the cars they don't want? If they are very old, polluting diesel vans, they can impose additional taxes on them. They can also give a premium if they are exchanged, so that the zzp'ers who often don't make so much money and who have been driving in those vans for fifteen years have an action perspective so that they can buy a new van. You're doing something like that for the inner cities. With the current policy, thezzp'er who lives in Alphen aan den Rijn will not be allowed to enter Utrecht, but in Delft, again not in Rotterdam and in Gouda. Guys, it really isn't. Some degree of harmonisation is even more desirable for vans than for mopeds and scooters, because that generally does not mean driving from one side of the country to the other. These are the kind of vans that do happen. We can, of course, again table motions and parliamentary questions, but we can also simply consult on them. Finally. We've been talking for years about the problem of involving everyone in the car tax when you lift it. One of the problems we constantly see is that people with foreign license plates are not properly dragged under the mrb. You can drive a foreign license plate for a long time. You will be signed up when you register, but if you come from another country and keep driving your mother-in-law's car, you will know with reasonable certainty that you will escape the charge. Is the Secretary of State prepared to use the 2 billion photographs taken through the PNR system of cars to see which cars have a foreign registration number for more than a few months to identify them and to ensure that they are subject to taxation? At the same time, can he make taxation easier for foreigners driving with a foreign registration number? If you work here temporarily for a few months, you should be able to register and unsubscribe your car from abroad with an online form, if necessary in your own language. That's not gonna get messed up. It must be easy to comply with Dutch law. We simply have to pay the car tax. I would like to hear the willingness to make a serious plan for this at last.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u187	The Secretary of State has requested a suspension of about 15 minutes in preparation for the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u188	Before we begin the answer by the Secretary of State, I would like to propose to the spokesmen the following. In view of the time and in view of the intensive discussion that this proposal requires, I propose that only the reply of the Secretary of State be completed in the first term. There will be room on the plenary agenda next week to keep the second term, so that the bill can still be in the First Chamber on time. A second reason why I would like to introduce this to you, in addition to the late hour, because, of course, we all like to work long and hard here, is that there are ICT problems at the Ministry. That is why the amendments are a little later. I understand it's all soluble, but it helps us all to have the Secretary of State's advice before we keep the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u189	Forgive the smile when I hear ICT problem and this Secretary of State. But we understand. I hope it's not in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u190	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u191	Then we'll be reassured. That's what we're gonna talk about tomorrow. I think this is a good proposal and I will see if we can vote on Thursday, if the Secretary of State needs it for timely consideration in the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u192	I'll give that suggestion to the planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u193	Good plan, but can I assume the second term is Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u194	We're gonna find out. I'll let you know tomorrow. The draft weekly schedule will publish the preliminary planning of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u195	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u196	I agree, too. I almost asked for a letter about the ICT problems, but I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u197	Since we have the assurance that the problems will be resolved next week, I think they will be resolved sooner than the letter would have been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u198	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u199	Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u200	I support the proposal. Unlike Mr Bashir, I do not need a letter. Moreover, I fear that it had become a handwritten letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u201	It's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u202	Thank you for your support. I would now like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for his first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u203	Mr. Chairman. During my first budget treatment as alderman in Amsterdam, I was responsible for ICT. It fell out on the night of the budget debate. Then we served all of Amsterdam with handwritten motions. What a beautiful subject this is. Everyone is interested in it and that makes it so good. There is a law on car taxes, and that, if I may judge it myself, is not a cautious development of what was there. That happens sometimes in taxation, but not now. I really see this as a necessary intervention in a system that had a lot of disadvantages over the benefits that were intended. I also see that if we were to go through with this, we would feel even more the disadvantages of this car policy. There are, of course, people and groups who have enjoyed this. In fact, many hybrid buyers come at me smiling and smiling and shoulder-beating and seem to have some kind of gloat about the advantage they have enjoyed themselves. But anyone who has not enjoyed the policies of recent years is, I am sure, the taxpayer, but also the regular motorist and certainly the private motorist. They weren't happy. The climate wasn't happy either. Let me first deal with the climate, which has played a major role in this debate. Here it is: the VVDer who believes that we really need to do something about the climate issue. If you don't want to leave a sovereign debt to your children, you shouldn't leave an ecological problem with your children. But then I think we should use the taxpayers' money as efficiently as possible. Then we have to be at least sure with what is called tax benefits, or subsidies, that we have the most climate gains for our money. Let me say even less ambitiously: at least what we do has to work. The least you can expect is that it does something for the climate. And it didn't. Since 2008, we have lost and sacrificed 6 billion in tax revenues with a climate effect of zero. In the AO I have done a small exercise in which I have argued that as a result of this subsidy we have emitted more CO2 in an absolute sense. That's a lot of good intentions, but the climate looks at us surly and has nothing to do with good intentions. I'm not making that up myself, that's what Policy Research Corporation and TNO say: there was no significant climate effect. The General Court calls our car policy'very inefficient'. The OECD concludes that the climate effect of our policies is "small or nonexistent." The Council of State is calling us to stop this. If we continue with this, increasing amounts of taxpayers' money will go to larger and larger cars. The new plug-in models are already ready and rarely have more than 300 horsepower and weigh more than 2,000 kilos. That doesn't have much to do with green anymore. What we have to face is the complexity of our car taxes and the ways to avoid them. It's not just about the feasibility that's bad. The other day I introduced the top twenty of difficult to implement tax regulations. The bpm is definitely in there. In recent years, there has been an entire industry in the Netherlands around bpm avoidance, which we cannot do anything about. There are bpm-taxators, there are bpm-importers, there are bpm-transporters, there are bpm-dumpers, there are bpm-dumpers, there are bpm-wheels-dumpers, there are bpm-wheels-dumpers, there are bpm-specialists. We now import 150,000 of our relatively new cars from neighbouring countries. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u204	Mrs Van Tongeren wants to place an interruption, perhaps a bpm interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u205	When you hear the Secretary of State like that, you'd rather think he's a member of the opposition. If this is the government's analysis of its own policy, I would say do something about it! This is the government, which has proposed this policy. If the policy does not work, either for the climate or because it is too complicated, come in the Autobrief Act with policies that are much better for the climate. I don't like that policy. Or is it just said: we tried, it failed, now someone else has to figure it out? We have had a policy of poverty for 2000 years, and poverty has still not been resolved. But that is not why we say: we do not do poverty policy anymore, we tried it once, but we cannot. So what are the improved proposals in this bill? I haven't been able to find them. We tried once. I couldn't. You learn from that and then you come up with better policies. Where's that better policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u206	That is what Mrs Van Tongeren asked earlier and I am about to answer. Let me just take the part about the complexity. On this point Mrs Schouten asked whether the story about the bpm is not something of ideology. In all honesty: no, I didn't necessarily have anything against the bpm before I came here, but I've seen what the bpm does and what we can't handle anymore. I have a list of as many as twelve ways I will certainly not reveal it here to avoid the bpm. It is no longer ideology to do anything about it. It just doesn't fit in a country with basically a good tax administration, where we do everything we can. It's not supposed to be like this. We are not a country that keeps an entire industry going to avoid bpm. I see it as my duty to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u207	We can't get that list out in the open. I'd like that. How many of these 12 ways of avoiding bpm will be made impossible if the present bill enters into force on 1 January 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u208	I said that, as long as there is a bpm, there will be some degree of bpm avoidance. That's why I put this in place as a first step. It is not possible and certainly not wise to reduce the bpm to zero in one blow. Then the value of the entire fleet drops. Then we bring leasing companies and fleet owners to the begging staff. We can't do that. That is a very irresponsible policy and it does not fit a government. This is a first step, where it is noted that the lower the bpm, the incentive and the incentive to avoid it is also more limited. The avoidance will not disappear, it is an explicit first step. If Mr Omtzigt asks me to call on any successors to do something about it, I will certainly do so with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u209	The Secretary of State says that there are more than 100,000 cars that, through parallel imports, do away with a large part of the bpm, with an entire industry behind it. Can the Secretary of State indicate annually how this is developing? I have talked about the gap of the mrb, well known, but I would have liked to have monitored the bpm hole to see if we can narrow it down. Otherwise the rest of the Netherlands can bring the weather happy, either within the car tax or somewhere else. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u210	That's what stings me. Others bring it up, of course, that's obvious. But if I knew exactly what the hole was and if I could quantify it, we could catch everyone. It's not like that. We know that there has been a huge growth in imports of young used cars. We also know that there are a lot of ways to lower the bpm. Some are smart and legal, others are smart and not legal. There are a lot of methods. In recent years, we have fought against the legal beers to try to make up all kinds of tricks. This has not been enough so far. So I can't quantify the hole. We can look at the growth of parallel imports. That's an indication, but no more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u211	I would like to ask whether we can see this parallel import of all cars between zero and three years imported.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then we have an idea whether this gap is getting smaller or bigger and whether the policy is effective or not. Is the government prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u212	For this cause, I am quite ready to come back after a year with figures on the import of used cars, for example between zero and three. That's not the problem. The point is that we cannot deduce from this whether the policy works. It has risen sharply, but you don't know what the rise would have been otherwise. I am convinced, as I say to Mr Omtzigt, that this is only a first step and not the end. This step will not solve the whole problem, because it is impossible to reduce the bpm in a responsible manner within four years. It can't be. Inherent to that is therefore that it is a first step. Mr Omtzigt is therefore quite right to say that this should not be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u213	I'd like to reason something the other way. The Secretary of State doesn't know if it's working, but he's gonna get rid of it. It's true that you can't avoid a tax if you don't charge her. That is indeed the most effective way to prevent avoidance, but we have a lot of taxes that people almost all try to avoid in a certain way. The question is whether it is indeed an effective way to spend our taxpayers' money, let us call it that. A lower bpm means that the load goes up somewhere else. In view of this, I would like to know whether it is effective what we are doing. If not, we will abolish something that we ultimately believe could have been achieved in another way, namely by means of a tax on the purchase of a consumer goods which is in itself justifiable. That is what we also know about VAT.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u214	This is of course still on top of VAT. But apart from that, we have always kept Mrs Schouten's line. We also thought that it should be possible to make a tax that politics chooses to implement and to prevent it from being avoided. We thought that for years, but we have always run into the wall again and again, because there have always been legal restrictions. I'm telling you, we're actually a little worked out. We have come up with a lot of things, we have lost all kinds of procedures and also a lot of things have not passed the legal test. We have simply failed to master it and in the meantime parallel imports are increasing. Mrs Schouten's line is certainly the most logical one, but we have not succeeded so far. This is a tax, in which we are trapped in a legal network and which we are not getting properly enforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u215	I would like to believe that from the Secretary of State, but I would like to be able to follow that development just like Mr Omtzigt. Suppose at a certain level of the bpm we see that parallel imports are no longer interesting at all. I think we're dealing with a new weighing moment, let's just call it that. I want the Chamber to be able to make that decision on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u216	I can reassure Mrs Schouten, because the phasing-out is only 12% at all. If we continue in this temp, we still have eight weighing moments to go, and I think that is too much rather than too little. I do agree with her that there can be a point where you say: the bpm is now so low that it doesn't pay to get through all this fuss anymore. That may well be true, but that does not make this first step any less "no regrets" in my view. It is also an important step and I would therefore not want to reduce the percentage. Actually, I think 12% is still quite economical.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u217	I was also shocked when I read in the note on the report that parallel imports amount to 150,000 cars out of a total of 400,000 cars. A third of the cars that are sold in the Netherlands are from abroad! That number scared me. The bpm of a Volkswagen up! was €800 in 2014 and now €1,700. In other words, it has doubled in two years. As a result, parallel imports have become more attractive in recent years. And now the Secretary of State is slowly trying to scorch that hole with a 12% reduction in the bpm. That won't get you anywhere. Doesn't the Secretary of State have any other instruments to seal that parallel imports and thus that avoidance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u218	I think I have to answer that with the answer I just gave to Mrs Schouten: no, I think we need to reduce the bpm. At the same time, like the bpm, we are working, in the words of Mr Van Dijck himself, to reduce the Christmas tree to CO frats. So she's getting evener. She's becoming less CO2 dependent. That means there's some kind of hinge point in it and it can go up at one and down at the other. But as a total, the volume goes down. There's gonna be less bpm. It's going down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u219	I'm afraid it's going very slowly. If the Secretary of State is going to monitor it, I am afraid he will see that in the coming years it will remain at the level of 150,000 cars or perhaps even higher. If you were to enter a bpm by weight, or if you were to charge the parallel import entirely with bpm for cars under five years of age, you would in one fell swoop close the parallel import and thus the avoidance, I understand. Has the Secretary of State considered such measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u220	Certainly, all such measures have been considered. I think Mr Van Dijck is the one who wants to hear the least of the answer I am about to give: some things run into European internal market rules. But let the internal market be just the part of the Union that he and I agree on, I think, in the sense that it is very useful for us. I see a yes with Mr Van Dijck. They won't take this from me anymore. I come now to Mrs Van Tongeren's question, but she is gone, I see. Her question was: how then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u221	I hear a lot of things in the Chamber, but it may also be that Mrs Van Tongeren has just gone out. But her associates are listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u222	I'm going to do the answer anyway, and I'm sorry Mrs Van Tongeren isn't here. After all, she asked a good question: how then? We are committed to European resource policy for sustainability. I do not see Mr Van Weyenberg either, but he always starts to look dirty when he hears that. We are focusing on European resource policy, because it works. Thanks to European source policy, CO emissions, for example, if we use the European Parliament, will fall across Europe to somewhere in the range of around 70 grams per kilometre. If we realised the commitment of the Netherlands, it would also reach 70 grams by 2025 and we would reach 35 grams by 2030. Such numbers are unheard of. The car world was in shock when a car was introduced at 99 grams per kilometer. Everyone was flapping their ears: how is this possible? Now we are talking about numbers like 70 grams in a not too distant future or 35 grams in 2030, simply, with great ease. The Commission is talking about this, Parliament is talking about it. Those are unheard of numbers. In June, the European Commission will present a concrete proposal. This is an efficient environmental policy. That makes sure with these car letter cars don't get any dirtier. No, I say in the direction of Mr Van Weyenberg, it is not true that they are getting dirtier. By the way, I do not think Mr Van Weyenberg means dirty or clean, but that he refers to CO emissions, which is something quite different from dirtyness. Cars go from 107 grams to 96 grams and then on to the mentioned 70 and possibly the mentioned 35. That is an efficient European policy. After the internal market, this is my second favourite in European policy, because it works. It's working! The change we have achieved in the Netherlands, which Mr Van Weyenberg said we would reverse, is a lie. The climate doesn't care about our borders. It doesn't really exist. It all leaked out through the waterbed, because yes, the waterbed actually works. It was a waste of money. And this policy works better than we ourselves could. To 70 grams, to 35 grams, revolutionary numbers. And that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u223	That's what we're gonna see, that source policy. It would be very nice; I have nothing against it either. However, the Secretary of State must acknowledge that with his letter cars sold in the Netherlands are going to emit 10% more CO. That's just what the wire transfers tell us. The Secretary of State does not mind this from the point of view of source policy, because it is possible to sell cars in a country other than a less polluting one, but that is what the accounts show.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u224	No, although I find Dutch emissions, within the limits, irrelevant, the fact is: they go from 107 to 96. It's been calculated. I think Mr Van Weyenberg is confused with the comparison with the reference scenario. However, the reference scenario is a non-existent world, which has been put away as a waste by four renowned institutes. The Dutch car will emit less CO2, from 107 grams per kilometer to 96 grams per kilometer. That's the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u225	All right, let's finish. I have the Secretary of State's analytical skills high, but when we look at cabinet policy, we always look at what the policy does in relation to the baseline scenario. That is what we are doing with all the policies, but apparently not here right now, because that would indeed show that emissions are increasing. I find it striking that the Secretary of State is now promoting another way of looking at it. As far as the reference scenario is concerned, pollution is simply greater, as I said in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u226	You can compare it to a reference scenario, but the one who makes the estimates is the same as the one who writes in that same report that this is wasteful and that you shouldn't look at it like that. Between now and next, CO emissions fall from 107 grams per kilometer to 96 grams per kilometer on average in the Dutch fleet. Then I come to the second answer to the question "how then?'. So we are irreversibly reducing the CO dependency of the system. The greening I have just mentioned will be achieved with much less subsidy. The tax revenues are getting much more robust, because we are not going to run another 6 billion through the well. Moreover, car taxes take a small run-up to make it easier and easier to implement, although some things are still a first step; I will come back to that later. Then who's the winner? Winner's gonna be the loser so far. So far it has been the ordinary taxpayer, the ordinary motorist, the private person who paid. He wins on this bill. It is the ordinary car driver, especially the private car driver, who wins. I disagree with Mr Bashir's fears; it is not the business driver for whom this is a party. I say this in all honesty and I do not want his statement to be true. If that were true, I'd correct it. There is no shift of charge from the business driver to the private one. There isn't one. It is the private driver who is going to pay a little less mrb, who through his new or used car benefits from a lower bpm and who could still drive a plug-in-like vehicle with a certain advantage in the mrb. There's no shift to the business driver. I shall come back to Mr Bashir's questions on 22%, 23% and 25%. The important point here, however, is that it is the ordinary car driver, especially the private car driver, who wins. I go to the various questions that have been asked in addition. I like to give my answer a certain order, but the questions are so broad that I have weary in arren but have decided to decline the path in chronological order. It's no different. I'm sorry, because bundling always makes it a little more exciting, but I just couldn't do it in those twelve minutes. Mr Bashir has a question about payment for use. It's the future he sees, and he wants to know what's been done about it on the auto team. Mr Bashir recalled that the Energy Agreement once again agreed that no steps would be taken by the cabinet during this cabinet period. Private parties can take initiatives and the Empire can participate in these initiatives as an interlocutor from 2016. The autoteam is also available as a question mark. There haven't been any questions yet. However, it has been agreed that initiatives will depend on future political decision-making and not on today's. By this I say to Mr Bashir that not only is the decision-making to the next cabinet, but that we are also giving that next cabinet the vision in this area. Mr Bashir asked why the roettaks could not be introduced earlier. We have chosen to make the system as fair as possible in principle. If you introduce a tax that will be noticeable for many users, you will not make it more popular by taxing people for something they have not done. The rocktaks should at least be in line with actual soot emissions and not, for example, with the year of construction, but that means that our system will only be able to handle this from 2019. This is not only due to the system within the Tax Administration, where we first have to renew our car tax system; the Tax Administration itself calls it "recovering." It also depends on the basic data being provided by the RDW. Those data are largely in order, but not entirely. There are holes in the database and they still need to be filled. If we want to do this in a fair and defensible way, this cannot be done sooner. It's not obstruction. For example, if you want to get rid of the environmental zones sooner, you also benefit from the fact that the dirtiest cars are off the road first. Then you don't need the environmental zones anymore. However, it simply cannot be done earlier. There's one thing I'm not gonna do anymore. I promised that to the Chamber at the beginning and then there was a happy look, but now it also works against me occasionally. I'm not going to introduce things that the Tax Administration simply can't do, because in the end it's going to affect the Dutch. Mr Bashir also asked about the addition. He actually says that the proceeds go to the lease driver. I insist that it is precisely the private sector that benefits from this. He is right to ask why the 25% add-on goes to 22%. That is a concession, Mr Bashir said. It's not that. In the highest add-on rate is not that much anymore, so weighted average the add-on does not go down at all. You might wonder why it goes to 22%. What is the logic of not leaving it at 25%, for example? The addition is not primarily a purely political choice, but the numerical outcome of the effort to tax a private advantage of a business car as a wage in kind. In the end, it is derived from the idea that the wage is to be taxed in a regular way. You can say that it is also crazy that we first thought about 25% and now suddenly it is 22%. How is that possible? Wage in kind is becoming an ever smaller percentage of a larger amount. Firstly, variable costs are falling. Fuel consumption is falling, life expectancy is increasing and depreciation is therefore falling, but investment is increasing. Cars are getting more and more techniques on board, just to be more economical. There is an ever smaller percentage of a larger amount. It has not been primarily a political choice. It is a result of complex deliberations which, to my regret, have not yet landed in a tough model in relation to the past, but in harsh considerations. It makes us vulnerable to all sorts of procedures if we throw that number back and forth opportunistically and without any justification. I am therefore not in favour of raising that figure and, in doing so, burdening the business car more heavily. It has been my intention to do so neutrally. If anything has been moved, the private driver will be able to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u227	I would point out, however, that the addition rates other than those 25% introduced over the years have also cost money and that this has come from somewhere else. So now it would be very strange to keep the money that has been pumped in there as well. Can the Secretary of State support the rate of 23, by the way? Can't that be substantiated in any way? Entrepreneurs have all kinds of advantages. For example, they can deduct insurance and the hard road tax from the profits, especially if they make a lot of mileage in private. Then I guess you can back up that 23%, too. This should be possible, also in view of the past, when the percentage was even at 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u228	I am not prepared to allocate too opportunisticly to something that I am not sure will benefit the support. I think, however, that I am on Mr Bashir's side when I say that it should not be the intention of this Car Letter and Act to make the private car driver pay more. The average car driver benefits from this law. As far as the final objective is concerned, therefore, I think that Mr Bashir and I are looking in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u229	I have a brief follow-up question, or in fact I repeat the previous question. A lot of business drivers had, at least in the past, a higher addition. It has been reduced to 14%, or in some cases to 7%, 0% or 20%. They've all benefited, too. Why is the Secretary of State looking at this moment, when there is money in the business sphere, purely at that amount and not at history and how it was built? After all, we pumped in the 6 billion that the Secretary of State was just talking about to get the greening done. The Secretary of State said it didn't work out. Instead of taking the money away, the Secretary of State is now saying that we're getting the money purely from the business lease drivers and that we're not going to share it with the private person. Can he back that up, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u230	It might have been the case that the business driver has benefited more from the subsidies than the private driver. Where you set the benchmark is a choice. It is indeed a political choice and I have chosen to take the last year as a benchmark. If we go back ten years, there are other benchmarks. Mr Bashir is quite right about that. However, I have chosen this benchmark. From his researching perspective, I would point out that he might have chosen other benchmarks. Mrs Van Tongeren has shown us the Indian model, in which government cars run on nuclear and coal electricity. She's not here right now, so I won't say anything bad about it. I only do that when she's there. Her serious question is how the Autoletter contributes to the goals of the energy agreement. What's the ingrowth path and how does that have to do with the 200,000? No purely fiscal targets have been set in the energy agreement, other than one: electric vehicles should receive some fiscal support at least until 2018. That's what this meets. In fact, through the half- and three-quarter rates of the MRB, there is also some support for these vehicles after 2018. So that target has just been neatly achieved. Mrs Van Tongeren is only concerned about what contribution is being made to those 15 to 20 petajoules. That's just what the bill says in itself, because that's calculated. This AutoLetter Act provides an additional contribution of 1 to 2 petajoule. This should be seen in the context of the entire mobility domain. So you can't see to what extent you're gonna make 15 to 20. I understand that by now it has been calculated that this is roughly achieved. But this contribution is just in the play. In other, non-tax areas, agreements have also been made, from behavioural changes to economical links. There is a lot of work to be done in the fuel vision. However, I cannot say that very authentically, because that is what my colleagues are doing, and they are running hard for it. I don't have the latest information on that. However, many other agreements have been made in the framework of the energy agreement in the field of mobility. In the conservative estimate of TNO, electric cars reach around 100,000. Is that very likely, one might ask me. We're pretty far over 90,000. This is an objective to be achieved by 2020. We may think we're here, but in all honesty, I don't think we are. I think there's going to be a whole swarm of new electric models on the market. Where the range of first cars really didn't exceed 100 km, we now have cars that go beyond 400 km. Tesla's come out for much lower amounts, but also the mainstream brands come out with platforms on which electric cars can also come. I don't think today's 93 000 will lead us to have 100,000 by 2020. I don't think so, but it's the estimate, and we'll send it straight away. Then Mr Van Weyenberg looks at me and asks if it is enough. That 200,000 wasn't a target, but it was an ambition. A very large part of it consisted of the plug-ins. However, it is precisely the plug-ins we have said that they do not actually contribute enough to the policy. Call it altered insight. Nevertheless, I think it may well be that we are well above the 100,000, but I will just leave the estimate. That's what rammers are for. They should not be contradicted by politicians, because they all have interests and you should never listen to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u231	Let's get back to that. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u232	That's what we heard from the Car Letter I. There were already a number of members in the Chamber, including me, who had looked and saw Mitsubishi Outlander and that Volvo coming. And there we went to the 100,000. We should not, however, talk about the estimates, which were based on the models that were on the market at the time. Are we making exactly the same mistake with this letter, namely that we are making estimates on the basis of the models that are now available? Should we suddenly put our hands back in the air in a year or two and say: oh, we had no idea that those new models would come and that everyone would drive it? Does the Secretary of State see the risk that we will have a few hundred thousand electric cars running at a rate of 4% and that we will consider that we have a hole of more than a billion with environmental gains, but relatively little?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u233	This is precisely the question put by Mr Omtzigt in his first term. He has also asked follow-up questions which were very useful. We can now completely confuse the order. That is not so much against it in itself, but I just want to give him the answer later. If I don't, I'm gonna lose my touch because of all the in-between stuff. But if he insists, I can do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u234	No, I'm not. I'd like one answer now. Have these estimates been made on the basis of current models or are the models already in the pipeline included and their behavioural effects incorporated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u235	The behavioural effects have been taken into account as far as possible. The organisation TNO has looked at the future in a fairly technological way, but has not only stayed focused on the models that are currently on the market. I'm about to answer the question of whether there's any risk involved. Just like the question of what to do about it. Mr Omtzigt has asked a number of understandable questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u236	The Secretary of State will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u237	Mrs Van Tongeren was also concerned about keeping the hybrids in the Netherlands. The first time she asked me about this, she was worried about the climate and my answer is always that climate does not respect national borders. Now she says it's also about air quality and asks us to keep these things here. That's what I've been modeling. I've been checking to see if the exports are getting started. No, not yet. However, those plug-ins have not been there for so long either, as Mr Van Weyenberg is right in saying so, how could they be exported? That's why I took a look at a parallel. I am trying to answer Mr Van Weyenberg's question seriously. That question was also asked by Mrs Van Tongeren. We've had this before. We've had previously subsidised vehicles that were then out of the lease. Take the Prius II case. That's a car that hasn't been made in a while. It came out of the lease at the time. I've been trying to check out what was the export of that now. On a total number of conventional hybrids somewhere between 100,000 and 120,000, these exports seem to stabilize at around 4,000 to 5,000 cars. That's not a massive export. Exports from the Netherlands are economical diesels. They're going fast, but these cars haven't gone so fast in the past. But could that be possible in the future? I have tried to identify the full cost to the consumer. For example, the depreciation curve is the same. Then you can see that in almost all cases it remains attractive for the consumer to drive such a car. There is no reason to believe that these cars will remain on Marketplace and will no longer be driven by ordinary, private consumers. Who makes a sum sees that it could still be attractive products. Then I calculated with a slightly more realistic ratio between electric driving and non-electric driving. So that still has a very good chance. I don't see any reason to believe they're being exported. By the way, we are looking at this again in 2018. I think I wrote that down somewhere, too. So that's what's gonna happen. I will return to that review later in relation to Mr Omtzigt's questions. In 2018 we put the thermometer in there to see what happens. Then we might see something that happens for the first time, because now there is no export of plug-ins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u238	I understand that Mr Van Weyenberg has a question on this. Mr Van Dijck had another question on a previous point. Do you mind if Mr Van Weyenberg asks a question on this first, Mr Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u239	I had a little point of order in between. Can the Secretary of State answer Mrs Van Tongeren's questions a little faster? 'Cause she's not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u240	I'm done. I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u241	Oh, then it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u242	I'm done. I'm through, but it's in the Acts now. And a question I tend to answer. This is often thrown at me like a great weakness, but I want to stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u243	This is greatly appreciated by the Chamber as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u244	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I would encourage the Secretary of State to continue this custom. The Secretary of State says: I'm going to monitor in 2018 towards 2019. But then he also has no objection to monitoring in that direction. I have asked him to look at these exports every six months from now, so that we can take a decision on them in the course of 2018. One look in 2018 I find on the late side. Why don't we look at what happens to these export figures every six months from now? I think they are well kept.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u245	That's true, but let's not make it too wild. At the moment not so many plug-in cars come out of the lease and the cars that come out of the lease are now not exported dominantly. Those are minimum numbers. I've got it right here. It's nothing at all: 200 all over 2015. Well, there's more on the verge than they've been exported. Let's just do it nicely. We have an evaluation in 2018 for a reason. That's not that far away at all. That car letter just came into effect. He starts in '17. To do this every six months seems to me to be a lot of good, but what Mr Van Weyenberg says is true: the figures are there. But let's not make it crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u246	We still have a second term. Then I'll say something. The Secretary of State is now talking about these numbers, but I would remind him of the words he himself started this block with: it is indeed not such a fair comparison because they hardly come out of the lease.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u247	I'm telling you the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u248	Sure. The Secretary of State said it was fair in the first round, but then started to shield with the 200. So I thought I'd repeat the right words of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u249	I do not take a word of it away: it is absolutely true that they are not yet dominant from the lease. There's nothing else I can do. Mrs Neppérus asked me about double taxation. In the past two years, she and I have built up a tradition in the fight against double taxation. I do not know if I consider this to be a double taxation, but let me put it this way: if we build in an incentive to get rid of dirty cars, then let us get rid of these environmental zones. After all, it is a strange measure to organise mobility in your city and your country in such a way that you cannot enter certain parts because your car is too dirty. You should be trying to get those cars cleaned up. This is hopefully just that little push that will get us out of those environmental zones sooner.................................................................................................................................................................................................. On this point, the Chamber has indeed adopted the motion for a resolution, which calls on the government to abolish the basis for municipal environmental zones for passenger cars in the traffic regulations. I understand that there is still a very large set of parliamentary questions to be answered first. I also understand that this is being rushed. I also understand that the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment will inform the Chamber about the implementation of this motion. That is a good thing, because, frankly, I could not give the answer. Of course, Mrs Visser is entitled to information on the implementation of the motion, which will be given by the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. Mrs. Neppérus asked what the rocktacks are getting. That's been a party for the beaters. That's the most amazing number, because the rocktacks is of course a descending thing. Or he doesn't work, and then we're gonna keep driving vans that get older and older for years, but that's unlikely. So it ends. The rocktaks disappear and dissolve, because we will soon have solved the problem; then the environmental zones can be removed. It's kind of a weird estimate tail. It is so-called "flattened" in a structural number by the rams. That structural number goes on forever and is therefore a low number compared to the amount in the first years. Structurally, the amount is 5 million. There is therefore a multi-annual occasional number "flattened'. Let me add the jargon, otherwise Mrs Neppérus will think: what a strange, low number. That's because it's structural. This is for the gourmets, but Mrs. Neppérus is a gourmet. Mr Van Vliet asked if the execution is really easier. In the transition and in some add-ons this doesn't necessarily make it easier, but a start is being made to make it easier in the future. After all, we will have fewer add-on rates, which will also be easier for consumers and for the industry. I dare say that the most important thing is that we ultimately have to work towards less bpm problems. That's in the top 20; that's a big boy. The changes do not, therefore, make it possible for a lot of people to be put into control in the short term, but in the long term they will make it better. The Council of State doesn't think this is going fast enough. Honestly, I might think so myself. I would have liked to have eliminated the bpm in one go, but then the fleet would immediately fall into value and we would have serious problems. We have decided not to do so, but from the point of view of implementation, I am looking Mr Van Vliet straight in the eyes, which would be preferable. Mr Van Vliet also wonders why fewer and fewer people are driving LPG. That's a little second guessing. At the break-evenpoint it can't really be, because from our sums this is somewhere between 4,000 and 8,000 kilometers for a factory car. Aftermarket is between 11,000 and 16,000 kilometers. There are a lot of people in this room who just make it. So they could all have run on LPG. But, yes, the customer is erratic and demanding. Is the range of LPG even pleasant? What about the trunk room? In all honesty, I think that perhaps the answer was given by Mr Van Vliet himself, who also drives more than 16,000 kilometres and has decided to drive diesel. Most multicyclists, in principle potential LPG customers, opt for diesel. Diesel has undergone a truly phenomenal development. Even the 24 hours of Le Mans is partly driven with diesels; it is untruthful. Mr Van Vliet himself therefore gives the answer to his own question. It is, at least in my opinion, not the State that should organise the promotional campaign for LPG. Mr Van Vliet also asks why the plug-ins can't reach 22% sooner. First of all, shocks never do the market right, because then you get anticipation effects. Furthermore, I would like to confess that for this Car Letter I have looked at the width of the support area quite carefully along a number of dimensions. The idea was that a more limited phasing-out would ultimately do the proposal good. I will answer Mr Van Vliet's question about electric vehicles at the same time as Mr Omtzit's questions. I have answered Mr Groot's question about the roettaks. He also noted that LPG is relatively clean. What's clean? CO emissions are just below diesel. The emission of NO is also lower than that of diesel, but it is roughly four times higher than that of a petrol engine. There is no particular reason to continue to favour the fuel currently subject to the lowest tax per kilometre. That does not seem to me to be the purpose of this policy, and I do not want to make any active efforts to do so. Questions have been asked about Volkswagen. What's the status on this file? Frankly, colleagues of mine know that much better. I've been monitoring the Volkswagen file for CO, because NO, which the Volkswagen case is about, is not at all in the car tax system. There is no need for any tax compensation in this area either. That's another matter. It has not yet been established that there would have been any fraud in the field of CO. There is an investigation going on, but that is about a few hundred cars in the Netherlands. Depending on what comes out of there, we have to look further, but for the time being there's no finding that there's anything CO going on that should have an impact on car taxes. Mr Groot has previously tabled a motion on loading posts. I very much liked this motion in itself, because it was about facilitating policies which do not directly affect taxation, and which may even be more relevant to the real problem and would lead to less erosion. There are now about 18,000 loading posts, semi-public and public. My colleague from EZ expects to make a green deal in not too long, which will provide between 55,000 and 60,000 loading posts during the period covered by the Car Letter. I understand that this is in full swing and that no lions and bears have been found on the road. That's the good news. In this way, we can stimulate electric driving in a non-fiscal way, without causing any erosion. Mr Van Weyenberg made another cry about the waterbed effect. I don't know if I literally rebut it, but he said: yes, if we start thinking like that! Yeah, that's what I'm saying, that's how we're supposed to think! Climate isn't about symbolism. It's not about symbolism, it's about climate, about earth, not politics! So, yes, it matters, so I say to Mr Van Weyenberg. He also asks about the large motion and about the exports of the hybrids. I have already replied to that. He also wonders about my claim that electricity is more taxed per unit of energy, in other words at the loading posts issue. Otherwise, he'll have to correct me, because I don't want to answer an accusation he didn't make. I think he has complained that in the energy tax sphere electricity per unit of energy is taxed more heavily than fossil fuels. I think that's his question. In all honesty, I say that's not weird. But perhaps there can be an explanation first, because then I have the question more clearly in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u250	In the explanatory statement to the report, I would like to say once again that it was a very nice step on the loading posts. In the case of various fuels, such as electricity, petrol and diesel, we looked at the tax per kilometre, if I may put it that way. At that point, I made a comparison. I said that you actually want to look more at the energy, because otherwise it's a bit like charging the number of degrees you heat your house instead of the energy consumption needed to achieve that. That's what I cared about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u251	No. I've known Mr Van Weyenberg for a long time. Our common hobby is: economic issues. But at this point I have one hobby that he doesn't have, namely the technique, because that's where I come from. It's completely incomparable. I repeat, completely incomparable. Gasoline is primary energy and all conversion losses have yet to be removed. Electricity is "collected labor." That's the end product. It's like finding that squeezed orange juice per unit of weight is more expensive than the raw oranges. That also makes sense, because the first is a processed product and the second is a not yet processed product. In the case of raw oranges, the peels still have to be removed. With the primary energy, the losses still have to be removed. Electricity is not a fossil fuel. One is primary energy and the other is "collected labor." In the AO I even brought in the second main law of thermodynamics, but then I was put in the media as a schoolmaster, and they're right about that too. I'm not gonna do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u252	Mr Van Weyenberg has a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u253	The Secretary of State writes: "In view of the lower tax burden per kilometre driven on electricity compared to petrol and diesel, the energy tax is not a bottleneck for the transition to electric driving." I think that theorem is boud. I look at the tax per megajoule, because I want to look at the energy impact of that tax, not the mileage impact. Then I come to figures showing that per megajoule the load on electricity is four times higher than the load on LPG and twice the load on diesel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u254	It's not comparable. These equations really cannot be made. I would like to have another cup of coffee with Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u255	I always like doing that with the Secretary of State. However, I also come across a lot of scientists who have a very different reading of these things. They are much better at technology than I am and perhaps they are worthy opponents of the Secretary of State. I therefore ask him not only to have a cup of coffee with me, but also with all those very wise scientists, including Delft people, who have very different views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u256	Then we'll have to study the second main law of thermodynamics. Mr Van Weyenberg has also asked another question, which in itself is sympathetic to me. Here's what he asked. There are so many special regulations in the car sphere; should we not even go to simplifications? And doesn't that even have to be worked out? Is the government willing to work on that? I don't know if he said "proposals," or...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u257	Variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u258	Variants. Well, look, I've put a lot of time into that and I haven't felt much support for that yet. I can say that there is broad sympathy in this Chamber for one of the minorities envisaged by the special arrangements and that it is not easy at all to do something about them. I heard Mr Van Weyenberg say that he would table a motion. If there's a broad support for simplification, I'd be happy to help you work out things you could do. But I say in advance that there are a lot of things that make a lot of target groups very unhappy. We have to be aware of that. We must have real support for this. It's not something you do for a while. It has an impact on many industries. It affects many manufacturers and many users. It's not a little thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u259	No, it certainly isn't, but I'll file a motion. Then we'll see if the Chamber supports it. I want to look for a variant, an effect, in which the Secretary of State could indicate: if you do it around the fire vehicles and give it back to the fire department, it can work. For example, there are many other examples, including a number of examples that will evoke more emotion than my firefighter's example. On the basis of what lies ahead, so to what extent it can be properly rerouted and the limits attached to it can then ultimately be made the political choice whether or not to do so. But I'll file that motion. I welcome the support of the Secretary of State and, hopefully, of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u260	In the fire department, the social impact could not be too bad. Even the hump suckers should not lead to great emotions, but we quickly enter the danger zone. It depends on whole industries, and that really isn't a small thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u261	Mr Groot also has a question for you on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u262	Yes, because I asked that question and I haven't had an answer to it yet. Does the Secretary of State wish to present a kind of cost-benefit analysis per tax scheme to the Tax Plan, in which he explains the pros and cons of the possible abolition of exemptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u263	I am afraid to promise a cost-benefit analysis with a very heavy department at the moment. And then I say: very heavy. If, however, the Chamber says in broad terms'show us what things could be done', it can be put on paper. But I'm afraid to go too far, otherwise I won't make it happen. We're a little out of capacity. That is not really the right motive to disappoint you, but that is realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u264	We've been over this before. It does not have to be a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis, but simply a list of the advantages and disadvantages and of the impact. That can be quite short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u265	I thought it had already been sent in the short version once. I'm gonna check this out. Mrs Schouten asked a very interesting question. Suppose we see a shift from fossil to electric driving. The energy tax on one is of a very different type than the excise duty on the other. They're quite different. Then what happens to tax revenue and how can you anticipate that? I must honestly say that the plan has been passed on until 2020. In doing so, I am, of course, severely forced by the Autoletter system to rule over my grave. But if I were to make all kinds of statements for the period after that, it would not make any sense now either. I would say that the person who makes the next car letter, who is therefore more in the energy sphere than purely in the tax field, should make that vision, or perhaps the one before that. I admit that it is an interesting question, but it goes too far to resolve it in the context of this Car Letter. Mrs Schouten is concerned about the plug-ins and believes that they should not be allowed to leave the country. She rightly says that it may not matter so much to the climate, but that it does have a certain impact on air quality. We paid for that, given the subsidies and that is why we would like them in the Netherlands. Her suggestion is to maintain the half-rate for the plug-ins during the years 2019 and 2020. It's possible. It's not what I chose, but it's not impossible. Then you'd have to pay it out of something and she'd think about the diesel charge. I would like to make two points about this. For example, you should not reduce the diesel surcharge by 12%. The phasing-out of the bpm including the diesel surcharge naturally affects the break-even point between diesel and petrol. I can understand her thinking to limit the exhaust in that diesel piece. I can understand that. I would also like to say that I would like to bring down that bpm. It's more serious than we sometimes think. That's not ideological, but it's a cry of hearts. It's kind of like my hobby here, but it's not. I've never made a hobby out of it and I've never been awake from the bpm, but I am now. I would therefore like to encourage Mrs Schouten to find another source of cover. It's possible, though. I don't have the numbers ready for a while, but there's a little puzzling to do. It's my heart cry to get another cover from somewhere, but it's not impossible. As far as her request for a country-by-country source policy is concerned, as long as the European ceiling is not so tight, you have the feeling that it will run away elsewhere if you do something here. If it really becomes European ceilings in the order of 70 or even 35 grams per kilometre, we will no longer have to pursue national policies and will not leak anything. The European ceiling will then do the job and it will help that you do not do things on a country-by-country basis. In such a case, having a single European ceiling will help a level playing field. Then there is the problem no longer that we are not achieving aggressive targets and we are achieving them, but without any subsidies. Then the market does the job and the challenge lies with the buyers and manufacturers of cars. That's where it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u266	I agree with the Secretary of State, but he himself gave the example of cars that came on the market a few years ago that I believe had 130 grams of CO emissions, which everyone said was incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u267	The first Prius, 99 grams!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u268	Yes. This already indicates how quickly developments can take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u269	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u270	We have been more ambitious than the boundaries of resource policy. However, the reasoning of the State Secretary stands or falls with the question of whether the ceiling actually goes down sufficiently hard. We don't know yet. So my question is twofold and perhaps the Secretary of State will go into it. If he wants the ceiling to go down, the Netherlands must make the most of it. However, if he finds that there is room for any reason, I would like him to consider this as a fallback option. Is he prepared to discuss this in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u271	That's not my turf, but I can confirm the first one. My colleague, the Secretary of State of I and M, advocates that. The Commission will also come forward with a proposal which will be dealt with in the usual way. It is reported that this is an ambitious proposal. The Netherlands is also very ambitious. The Dutch cabinet policy is aimed at achieving these goals in precisely that efficient way. If that doesn't work, we'll see again. We are not national in Europe. We have to do it together, but I have to leave that to my colleague. On the first point, there is a firm commitment. The numbers that go around in the circuit are all very ambitious as far as I am concerned. Then I come to another question from Mrs Schouten, a question in which you look at the whole thing with a helicopter, the 'well to wheel' question. That is the question of doing something with the revival. Mr Van Dijck made a comment on the same point, albeit in a different tone. He said, if they are coal power stations, you have coal cars; that doesn't help either. That's right, because then "well to wheel" shows that we haven't made any progress at all. So it's about making sure that it's also produced sustainably. But then the problem is that electricity is nothing but flowing electrons and they are not earmarked. So we can't say this solar collector is for that car. That's bullshit. A solar collector is added; that makes it more economical, but it is not that there is a solar cell for every additional car. That's not how it works. I think we should separate this transition from national energy generation, which, as far as I am concerned, is in safe hands with my colleague, Mr Kamp, who also has goals for sustainability and CO savings. So by this way, we could ensure that the generation of electricity which really is a completely different side of the demand, which goes far beyond motor mobility, also goes along with it. I cannot do that from the point of view of car policy or taxation, but the sustainability goals are there and they are also agreed on in the cabinet. They're committed to that. Mr Van Dijck asked and passed the question about the size of the addition. As a result of the addition, net revenue for the Empire appears to be 1.7 to 1.8 billion, as estimated by the specialists. This was the Christmas question. Let me be honest: the bpm was, like about all our car taxes, a CO-dependent tax. Should the bpm be a CO-dependent load? As far as I am concerned, not even for other reasons why the 'de-CO-ization' in car policy should be continued. But I simply failed to make a manageable and executable variant, in which the bpm is phased out and also 'geont-CO'd'. I simply didn't manage that well. We've done a little bit with the fixed foot. So it's getting a little less CO-dependent, but the ideal image that Mr Van Dijck has here and what I share, frankly, has proved impossible. But he is right that there is no reason to maintain that bpm as a CO-dependent tax in the long term. I can't help but say he's right about that. That tax is going down, because the rates are going down by 12% and because there is a certain degree of CO dependency, it will actually go down a little bit further. TNO reaches 3,7%. It is not the case that TNO points out that it will have a different effect for small cars than for large ones. That wasn't said. On paper, it may have been the other way round in many cases in recent years. I now have to stick to the numbers of the researchers who have their own claim here that this is a feasible path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u272	I have a question about the 3.7%. This is an average. As I have just said in my speech, it is much easier for a petrol slurper to get that 3.7% than for a car that already drives the most economical of the cut, is small and you name it. That space isn't there, I hear from the market. The question is whether this means that the small economical cars become more expensive over time with an average of 3.7% and the big slurpers are relatively cheaper, which actually gives you a counter-effect than you want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u273	I have also heard that the industry has put forward this argument. For the time being, including in the TNO statements, I have not read the conclusion that this is happening. Maybe this is just something we need to keep an eye on. Mr Omtzigt asked a funny question: which majority is actually there and in which room is that discussed? In all honesty, I say to him: for the time being in this room. I'm not exactly in the back rooms yet. I'll be in the front room first. I'm just trying to do it the way we did it a long time ago. I'm trying to convince you all through the front door, on the contents. Mr Van Weyenberg is a bit out of it, but the rest is still awake, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u274	At least he's still able to shake no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u275	Well, that saddens me. Mr Omtzig also asked about the promotion of purely electric vehicles. I'll paraphrase it and make it sharper than woolly. He actually says: why doesn't the story apply to the plug-ins also to the EVs? That ceiling, that waterbed effect, doesn't that apply to this, too? That was actually the question. I have already answered this question during the AO and indicated that I am working on this point because I have checked the basis for all kinds of elements of the Autobrief quite widely and quite intensively. I've come to the conclusion that it's not easy to make a car letter that doesn't contain pure electric vehicles. Honestly, I am not ashamed to listen to the Chamber and make my sums at this point. The follow-up question is then what it means for erosion. In that AO I also said in all honesty that I fear oversubsidisation rather than undersubsidisation. If I'm asked what I think the biggest risk is, I say that oversubsidisation seems to me to be a greater risk. That is why it is important that we have an evaluation moment, because then we will not only look at the exports of the plug-ins, but also how things are going with this. What are the numbers and how is the erosion? There is then a small moment when we can intervene to some extent. That's important, because we've learned from it. I simply agree with Mr Omtzigt, but for the very reasons of his first question, I am looking very closely at where the support is leading me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u276	It would increase our support if there were subsidies but not over-subsidisation. That is why I asked how the Secretary of State is looking at the amendment in which we propose 10% addition. The addition is then less than half of the 22% addition to the rest. There is then a considerable degree of stimulation. We are also proposing an emergency braking procedure, so that the law does not need to be changed but can be changed per AMvB, which then needs to be put forward in the Chamber. That can't happen overnight, but if we see it coming out of the claws, it can be stopped within a month or a month and a half. We saw last time that the six months stop journey cost hundreds of millions for cars that were soon registered and could drive around for free or almost free for four years. Is the Secretary of State prepared to amend his bill to that effect? If I look behind me, that might be a support measure for part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u277	If an emergency braking procedure is, in its broadest sense, a support measure, then I would seriously consider it. I've chosen this now. If you were to come to a different conclusion at the time of the evaluation, you would have to change the law. Nor is it so strange that you change something so important, about which there is such a huge discussion in this debate, through democracy with a formal law. I don't think that's very weird. I wonder if an AMvB for such a big point isn't a bit of a light thing. Let me put it this way: if concrete proposals are put forward, then I am not the main one against this, but it seems to me to be a slightly democratic means for such a big point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u278	Now the Secretary of State is trying to replay the ball in a very interesting way. A veil on an AMvB means that the Chamber can either agree to it or reject it in such an emergency braking procedure. There's a certain speed in it. During those two or four weeks that the AMvB is hanging out, the Chamber can say yes or no. By the way, that's what the First Chamber can do. And that's it. I'm just turning the question around. What are the lessons we learned from the Mitsubishi Outlander and the Volvo, in which a small group of Dutch people got a lease car for tax almost free or free, which was paid by the large group of people for whom taxes went up on all sides? What's that learned from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u279	This is a funny speech, because Mr Omtzigt now repeats the lessons that I myself have been pumping into it, and puts a question mark behind his sentence. We agree on these lessons; I do not need to repeat them. Let us take advantage of the fact that the second period will take place at a later date, and let me consider in the meantime whether and, if so, what other means of turning things around can be created to counter the impact if an interim evaluation shows that it is getting out of hand. Why don't I just think about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u280	I think that's a very nice offer. I hope that it not only happens at the moment of evaluation, but also at all other times that there is a very clear reason for it. It is not about 200 cars being exported more or less; we really know what kind of events we are talking about. If the Secretary of State would like to take this whole package, I am waiting with great interest for that second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u281	I'm gonna think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u282	It is always good for interim and timely evaluation. If things are going really fast with those electric cars, you can think of less funding needed. You have to keep that possibility open. But at the same time, does the Secretary of State agree with me that there is a difference between the subsidy of plug-ins, which concerned the reduction of CO emissions that leaked abroad, and a new technology, the energy transition, with which you go to a completely different car market? It has a value in itself to stimulate that new technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u283	I do not know whether it makes sense to have that debate here. I do this with love, because that is my role, because the Chamber is moving in the broad direction. Whether it's a whole new technique, I don't know. In the nineteenth century the electric motor was already quite advanced. Do you have to ask a mechanical engineer if an electric motor in a car is something new? Maybe the battery technology is new. I can see that it is a change of behavior and that it requires a certain transition. I recognize all that. It seems useful to me to keep an eye on this one way or another. That's why I built in the evaluation moment. The fact that there's a transition going on here is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u284	I find it striking that the Secretary of State doesn't really believe in this climate gain from the electric car, but he still subsidises the same car with 4% addition. Doesn't that mean he's gonna throw himself at the same hybrid stone twice? We know in advance that there is no climate gain, but because of the creasibility of the Secretary of State being forced on by clubs like the PvdA and the SP, he goes along with that overstimulation. He just literally says that the CO emissions from an electric car via the power plant and from a petrol car are actually anything. Then why is he funding that electric car? Just take it to 22%!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u285	That is exactly the same question as Mr Omtzigt asked, but exactly the same. His assumption that I always like to follow the SP is perhaps not shared by Mr Bashir, at least not in his experience or mine. I think I answered the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u286	We are talking about a lot of money and tax subsidies for a so-called greening measure, whereas the Court of Auditors said with hybrid cars that it was very stupid to do so. Now the Secretary of State is doing the exact same thing. Can he not convince the PvdA with the report of the General Court and the letter in his hand that we are again wasting money on an aimless greening measure and that we should put everything at 20%, including the electric car? That would be much more honest, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u287	The tone keeps changing, but the question remains the same. Mr Omtzigt asked me who all came to the department. All organizations that have visited the department are listed in an annex in the Car Letter. I've been asked which car brands have been at my table. I spoke to Tesla once at my table, who tried to convince me that the cap was a very bad idea. I've taken note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u288	I would like to have the precise overview, not only of the Secretary of State for Finance, but also of the other departments, of the number of times that not only the Secretary of State but also the officials have been approached. That's the lesson I learned five years ago. Since we still have some time until the second term, we can perhaps do so in an overview. Then I don't have to ask Parliament questions about it and then we have insight. Tax benefits of hundreds of millions are sometimes given away here. Then we have an insight into how lobbying is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u289	I'll see if I can. I heard the question. I still have time to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u290	It's not a question of whether it's possible. It is covered by Article 68 of the Constitution, the obligation to provide information to the Chamber. If we ask for that overview, I don't have to file a WOB request to get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u291	I do not know exactly how many officials the agendas need to be raised. I'm not going to be reluctant, because I understand the question. Mr Omtzig's observation that one brand is moving more actively in the lobby than the other I had. If I have to report the number of times I've been called or approached without this leading to a visit, that could still be high numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u292	Mr Omtzigt, you have been able to interrupt three times. You made your question very clear, and the Secretary of State is going to see what he can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u293	I dare say that we simply cannot do that. I'm gonna figure out what's possible and how long it's gonna take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u294	I believe that that information contains everything. Some parties are represented by interbranch organisations, others are not. In order to ensure that we do not prejudice parties acting independently in such an overview in relation to parties who are represented by an industry organisation or an association of interests, I would like to belong to all other car brands that are affiliated to it per association of interests. Then we have a fair comparison. I feel a little bit of which way Mr Omtzigt wants to go. I'd like all the facts on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u295	Now it's really expanding. If all the car tax-related organisations in all the departments of all the officials involved in car taxes need to be informed of the agendas, I do not know whether we are going to be able to implement legislation at all. May I try to keep it somewhat manageable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u296	Of course. In such an overview, however, it may seem as if parties trying to defend their interests independently are much more likely to fall apart than parties that are represented by a particular industry or other association. I think it is fair that this is clear, otherwise you could get the wrong footage from lists like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u297	Let us strive not to invest man-years in this kind of thing. I'd really like to keep it reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u298	All the more so because the Chamber would like to have this information for the second term, which will take place next week. This also affects the conciseness of the information that can be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u299	That forces me to be even more concise than I have already been in my response. Mr Omtzig asked whether we could not do everything up to 22%, including the existing lease cases. That alone costs 150 million over the period of the Car Letter, and I'm not just getting it from anywhere. Moreover, it is not a priori reasonable, because we are not doing it in the opposite direction. We've raised tariffs in the past, but we didn't send up the old lease cases. As far as I'm concerned, that's why they don't have to go down now. I'm not getting that $150 million from anywhere fast either, which is why I don't feel like this. In Mr Omtzigt's view, measuring environmental performance is "a gang." Well, a gang, a gang? I think that's big words. It is simply possible to take technical measurements. That's what we do for air quality. That's what we do for sound. Length, width, height: a lot of things are measurable. What is important to the Tax Administration is that the Tax Administration does not have to measure anything but can extract it from basic data. If basic data is based on a uniformed test that has been recorded somewhere, we can live well with that. Taxation also does not require that it is exactly the same as practical consumption, as long as it is a proxy that allows you to distinguish one car from another. I don't want to go with the word "gang," but I want to go with the idea of a new test. The purpose of this test is not to better map the differences between cars, but simply to bring it closer to practical consumption. The WLTP test is a COen consumption test. It is reason that you have organized a new test method if other CO quantities per kilometre come from it. That is not a priori better; it is then closer to practical consumption. Higher numbers will come out, but it is not obvious to increase taxes in the Netherlands as a result of another measurement method. Since we are moving to another test in Europe, we are not going to increase taxes here. That's not the plan. So there has to be a transition from an old to a new system and I predict, even though we don't know the final test and the numbers yet, that it's not the final numbers. Moreover, the first indications show that it is likely to give a few percent; it rises to about 7%. But you also have a lot of bullshit because there is an old generation of cars that can be sold and a new generation that hasn't been sold for that. Everyone sees the body floating! It's gonna be a lot of trouble, but as soon as I get more information, it's gonna come to the Chamber. When it comes to the bpm, I think of 2016. It will also have to be an amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u300	The Secretary of State went through the previous point far too quickly. That is an important point, because there are cars that are now covered by the 25% rate, whereas similar cars will soon be covered by the 22% rate. After that, people are likely to take advantage of the possibility of still using the 22% rate via detours. If they do all that, the Secretary of State says it costs 350 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u301	150 million!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u302	150 million. But then the Secretary of State has still not responded to the issue itself, namely that a lot of constructions will probably be used. People who are fast and can make use of it will benefit and everyone else will pay 150 million. How is the Secretary of State going to fight these constructions to ensure that the people currently covered by the 25% rate will soon be covered by that high rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u303	It doesn't help to take a car off your name or to conclude a new lease, because it's the date of first admission. That's what you're supposed to be shuffling with. I have some time left and I will try to put it very briefly. I'm going to think about how we get it to the Chamber, because trials were never my strongest side. I'm going to try to formulate exactly what it would be about and why I think it's manageable. You want me to do it like this? It was a serious question and it was also a serious answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u304	The Secretary of State means in writing, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u305	Yeah, I'll put it on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u306	That's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u307	It's not gonna be a dissertation, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u308	That's fine, all the more so because I think there are opportunities to fight it. If you were just gonna take care of it right now, this is gonna be fine. Think for example of the unique song that all car engines have. Maybe we can record or record that. Maybe there are other possibilities. We'll hear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u309	There will be another letter from the Secretary of State. I don't want to provoke Mr. Omtzigt, but he was just at the microphone. So if he had another question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u310	Don't trick him!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u311	No, that moment has passed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u312	Then a question has been asked that is actually about cooperation in the cabinet. Can't there be a joint plan, as was asked. This involved the roettaks for the vans, as well as any premiums to replace them, in combination with environmental zones. There has been a very detailed discussion, in all peace and cheerfulness but very extensive, between rulers of this letter. Very extensive; you haven't often seen so many rulers in a room. So that's not what this is about. We are not dealing with the environmental area, that is a decentralised competence. As far as a premium is concerned, we have simply decided not to put a premium on those vans. We have not pursued this instrument. This is not a question of cooperation, but of the fact that we do not see much of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u313	I would nevertheless like to see a common position of the directors concerned on this matter in the short term. I shall come back to that with a motion, because I do not see much movement at the moment. I will come back to the previous point once more. In fact, the Secretary of State said that before this bill enters into force, there will be a new method of measuring from Brussels. We're gonna implement it. In my view, we will then have a whole table in October or November, which we will otherwise put into the legislation. Each car will then receive a different tax rate than it would now get according to what is stated in this Car Letter. That seems to me to be logistics, whether with working or non-working computers at the Tax Office, a very big challenge. Can the Secretary of State give any insight as to whether this is feasible? We do not have the figures, but we have seen more often in recent years that we wanted to change something in November and that we could not do so before January. Can I be sure this is feasible? This point is very important to me, to the CDA. That depends on whether we will vote in favour of this law; let me be quite honest with you. In general, we are in favour of this bill, but I do not want to vote in favour of a legislative proposal which shows that we are going to amend the table and that taxation will end with all kinds of post-tax taxes in the car tax. Is what is happening feasible on 1 January 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u314	We are not quite sure yet, but we do see ways of making this feasible. I don't know if that's gonna be a fun package, but it shouldn't be something the taxpayer's burden isn't. At most, additional work tables and discs should be designed for the implementation of the Tax Administration. I do not look forward to that, but there seem to be modalities that will at least not affect the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u315	In this case, the taxpayer is often the car dealer, who bears off and sits in between. It can also cause a lot of trouble if it goes wrong or if it gets post-charges. Anyway, since this Secretary of State, we've had the habit of making execution tests public. Has there been an execution test at this particular point, with the focus on it, and can it be sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u316	No, because the proposals in Europe are not yet final. Our influence is aimed at making them as manageable as possible for the Dutch Tax Administration. It is a serious point of attention, but we believe that there are still sufficient modalities to make it workable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u317	Mr President, I am sorry to ask you about this...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u318	You've been interrupting a lot...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u319	For the time being, we believe that there are sufficient modalities, said the Secretary of State. That's really buttery. So I ask the Secretary of State to come back in the letter to make us feel that it is feasible and manageable. I mean, we can get the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u320	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u321	... give him some sort of strip card for Question Time in January and February, but I don't give him that. So just make sure you convince us it's feasible, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u322	I love Question Time! Now that I have promised something in writing, and that is no different than by letter, although not in a blue envelope, I will take this point with me. Well, at least it's a real concern, because you're going through a lot of trouble with another test like that. I wouldn't have started it myself. Mr Omtzigt also asks if we want to look at the millions of photos on cars with a foreign license plate that drive and lift in the Netherlands for more than two months. Let me say that I have also promised to do so, it is not such an original idea to go into this very detail in the six-month report. That is a promise. Which I already did. Can motor vehicle tax returns be made on the Internet by foreigners abroad? Yeah, we can do that on the IRS website. Of course, it is also accessible via the Internet abroad. I think I've run out of time, Mr. Chairman. I have made a number of commitments to inform the Chamber more about things. I even have some thinking assignments to take home, but I think I've passed through the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u323	Thank you very much. I think there has been extensive discussion in this first term. We would like to see the information as far as possible before the second deadline. If that does not work at one point, I assume you will inform the Chamber. But basically, we assume that the information is there. I'll take a look at the MPs. Is it an idea to ask the Secretary of State to submit a written response to the documents on the amendments that have already been tabled? This could perhaps speed up the second deadline. I see that wish is alive. Secretary of State, it would be nice if it were possible to send a written response to the amendments already tabled with the documents for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u324	No one has explicitly tabled amendments, but some paper was waving through them. I hope I can count on you to make sure it's complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u325	We'll make sure of that. Six amendments have now been tabled, Nos 9 to 14. There may also be a few who are not here because of communication problems. We will, of course, ensure that you are aware of all the amendments that have been tabled so far, so that you can provide them with a written response. I see that Mrs Schouten has a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u326	I'm trying to streamline it a little bit. There are indeed a number of amendments in the pipeline. They have not yet been submitted, but they may well be coming before the letter. Can they be taken too? Otherwise, you will have an uneven playing field between the amendments that have already come through and those that have not yet come through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u327	I'll take a look at the clerk. Perhaps we can agree that the amendments that will last until tomorrow can still be included in the letter. If the second deadline for the debate is scheduled for Tuesday, there must also be time for a written reply. In this way, you all know that if you manage to table the amendments tomorrow, you will receive a written response. After that, it is no longer possible in the department. I think we have to respect the reasonableness of the deadlines. I would like to thank all the spokesmen and the Secretary of State.
