ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. For centuries we have had our prosperity thanks to the fact that in those same centuries the Netherlands had the most efficient and cheapest transport system in Europe, both for passenger transport and for freight transport, the basis for a successful economy. All this was for a very long time because of our very efficient connections across the waterways everywhere. A tractor barge was infinitely faster and cheaper than land transport. All that's changed. Road transport is much faster these days. What has not changed is that cheap transport of both persons and goods remains essential for the economy. That's where things have gone pretty bad over the last few years. Of the cheapest transport country for people, tax measures have made us one of the most expensive countries in Europe, if not the most expensive. All motorists in the Netherlands generate roughly 15 billion in car-related taxes. In a car park of around 8 million cars, this average is €1,875 tax per car owner. We are talking about the bpm (tax on passenger cars and motorcycles), a tax on the purchase of new cars which are virtually non-existent in virtually any European country, about 8 billion in fuel taxes, 3.4 billion in motor vehicle taxes, 1.5 billion in provincial revenues and also parking taxes, and so on. By the way, I have not yet included the billions in income tax. Less than half of that 15 billion is spent on roads. The rest slides into the state treasury, including in an attempt to dampen the black hole called public transport. Despite this huge revenue stream, in recent years there has been a loss of revenue from car taxes, over 2 billion in 2013. One of the two main objectives of this cabinet's transport policy seems to be to achieve CO reduction. In recent years, anyone who has an idea, whether or not insane, of achieving this goal has to say, above all, a magic formula: "Hocus pocus pilate pas, I wish there was no more CO-emissions!" Then this government is immediately prepared to provide billions of grants and tax bonuses. That is exactly what has happened in recent years. Major efforts have been made to hybridise and electrify the car park through large-scale use of subsidies and tax measures. The result is only there if, as this government now dictates to us, you look at a magic trick as it is intended. In this case, a large black rag is being laid over the power plants that produce the electricity that our electrified and hybridised car park needs to drive around virtually emission-free. They're out of the game, otherwise the trick won't work. With such a transparent trick no magician gets away in everyday life. That black rag is too big for that. Such a magician is immediately sent off the stage. But also for the left, green and worried Netherlands, which is applauding this magic trick, it is useful to look at the figures. Even with the magic trick it is staggering how bad this works. In 2013, for example, tax subsidies in the field of motor vehicle tax, bpm, add-on and so on were spent over 2 billion. Some of them are simply leaking abroad because subsidised cars are sold abroad. We then come to a price per tonne of avoided CO emissions of as much as €3,000; these figures were provided by the State Secretary himself. And what does 1 tonne of avoided CO emissions cost on the emission market? €5. This Secretary of State knows that too, because, as I said, he has provided the figures himself. For this reason he has found the euphemism of the year. I quote: 'In view of the price on the current CO emissions market of around €5 per tonne, there is a real problem here: in the next phase it needs to be more efficient'. It seems that efficiency will be a matter for the Secretary of State. More importantly, his other main objective, which he calls "a stable revenue flow for the government based on reputable and executable car taxes," has come to a halt. Admittedly, the addition, as the Secretary of State calls it, is "robuuster and simpler," but the bpm remains a CO magic trickbox, with even a separate table for plug-in hybrids. The spectator has to believe that the bpm will fall by 14.7% by 2020, but I believe that this is the basis for the assumption that a 3.7% reduction in CO emissions will take place every year. My group remains unclear on what that is based on and how many black rags, to stay in magical terms, the Secretary of State needs to do so. Maybe he can shed some light on this. Perhaps the Secretary of State could also clarify the following point. He has indicated that he eventually wants to get rid of the bpm, but as he said in the House of Representatives, this can't happen so quickly because the current fleet of cars suddenly becomes much less valuable. There is something to be said for that argument, but in that light it is quite remarkable that he needs four years to reduce the bpm by 14.7%. This would mean that he would need 27 years for the total phasing-out, while the average age of a car is 18 years. Moreover, the phasing-out of the bpm could be much faster, given the low value of a car in its last years of life. In short, I would like to get an estimate from the State Secretary of the phasing-out period of the bpm. The electrification of energy consumption, and hence the car park, does not have to be unrealistic for the distant future, if you want to become more independent from oil producers, but only if you are willing to develop nuclear power and, in particular, thorium reactors, as the Chinese decided a number of years ago. The strange thing is that I do not hear anything about this in the context of electrification of cars. Finally. What would the PVV say? We want much lower and simpler car taxes, which are in line with those in the neighbouring countries, especially in the area of excise duties. Too much is leaking into Belgium and Germany. This is also very bad for the local economy in the border regions. Furthermore, we do not want tax subsidies for left-wing toys, especially if they do not have any effect. We shall look at the results of this debate as to whether there is any development that is somewhat in our direction. This will ultimately determine our voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. We're discussing the Autobrief II Act today. The name alone deserves a prize. Soon we will be able to say to each other: as you said in the debate on the Autobrief II Act. We can't pronounce the Roman figure. It's beautiful. The law deals with amendments to car taxes. The starting point is that it is completely budgetaryly neutral. The SP Group agrees with that. The main shift is that reductions for cars that emit less CO are partly abolished and partly reduced. This is because, in practice, some of these cars, especially the so-called plug-in hybrid vehicles, are much less economical than in theory and because the savings in CO emissions are leaking out to other countries. If economical cars are sold here, manufacturers in other EU countries are allowed to sell less economical cars, as EU standards are limited to the average emissions of newly sold cars. For this there is a very low load on fully electric cars, which in all respects cause less environmental pollution. We think that's a good thing. In total, these measures would only lead to 1% additional CO emissions, we believe to read on page 23 of the explanatory memorandum. However, the Secretary of State replied to our written questions that there will be no additional CO emissions as a result of his proposals. We read that on page 7 of the reply. I think we're talking past each other here. Of course, the situation should not be compared with 2016 in 2020, but with the current situation in 2020 as changed and unchanged policies. If we do so, we believe that the Secretary of State's own documents contain less CO savings, albeit 1%. Can the Secretary of State shine his light on this again? The Plan Bureau for the Environment has recommended that car taxes should focus more on reducing the harmful emissions of nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter to our health. This is urgently needed, because in a number of places in our cities these emissions are above the legally permissible limit and emissions of these harmful substances across the country exceed the standards of the World Health Organisation. However, the Secretary of State does little with this recommendation. In fact, he argues here that source policy, i.e. producing cleaner cars, can be more effective than greening car taxes. That's what he did with the Tax Plan last year. The greening of car taxes comes second, because those car taxes are not really meant for environmental policy, if I interpret his words correctly. Although the Secretary of State is basically right that a good source policy would be the best way to reduce environmental pollution from cars, this is not so simple in practice. The standards for producing cleaner cars are being slyly evaded and the lobbying of car manufacturers is successfully resisting the necessary tightening of these standards within the European Union. They are also doing so successfully against the tightening up of these standards advocated by this government. Moreover, along this road you can only do something about new cars, while the older, dirtier cars will be used for decades to come. It is therefore not at all inappropriate to impose additional taxes on polluting consumer goods, or their use, in order to encourage consumers to switch to less polluting goods. The same goes for cars. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State does not see very much in this respect, because in the cabinet proposals, in line with the opinion of the Planning Bureau for the Environment, only a limited fine dust allowance on very old dirty diesels has been included, which also starts in three years' time. This supplement therefore has a limited effect: 3 to 5% less emissions. If this levy had been higher, the effect would have increased, linearly, according to the State Secretary's replies. Moreover, if the additional revenue from a higher levy were to be used for a more generous buy-back scheme for the old diesel vehicles, the positive effect on our health could increase even more. Unfortunately, the cabinet has missed opportunities here. Another point on which, according to our group, the cabinet has completely failed is the shift from fixed charges on car ownership to variable charges on car use. This can be done by introducing a mileage tax. Such a levy is not only advocated by the SP, but also by large civil society organisations. It's more honest, because the more you drive, the more taxes you pay. It will also contribute to more selective car use, and the less car kilometres, the less environmental pollution. The Secretary of State does not want to do anything about it, because the government agreement states that there will be no mileage tax during this period. We regret that. Could the Secretary of State put on the table a study for the next period of government with the advantages and disadvantages of different variants of a mileage tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. While all signals are red in terms of climate change, and the consequences become increasingly visible in our daily lives, the cabinet comes with this Autoletter II, which leads to more CO emissions and damage to the environment. My group is concerned about how this is possible. What does the Paris climate agreements mean and what does the judge's ruling mean that the Netherlands is doing too little about this? How is it that the Secretary of State for the Environment commits to what was agreed in Paris and says that we must strive for a maximum of 1.5°C global warming and at the same time we have this letter? This Secretary of State is in fact enthusiastically defending that polluting large cars become cheaper and clean cars that emit little CO more expensive, not to mention the velvet glove approach of dirty diesels, which with their soot emissions are a threat to people's health. Tax policy has two main objectives for the period 2017 to 2020. First of all, these are stable revenues for the government and, in addition, they are "a substantial support for air quality and climate objectives." That first objective is clear, but with the second objective my group is getting worse. To be honest, this sounds ridiculous in the light of the contents of the Car Letter. This letter leads to more CO emissions than the previous policy. The challenge for the mobility sector to contribute to solving the climate problem is even more out of the picture. Appointments in the energy agreement are not reached. We are now at 24% more CO emissions from the mobility sector than in 1990 and need to reach -17% by 2020. Instead of narrowing this hole, the Secretary of State is making it bigger with this letter. The current policy of fiscal greening leads to CO emissions of 87 grams per kilometre by 2020 and with the Car Letter it goes up to 96 grams per kilometre. However, in his written reply, the Secretary of State says cheerfully that CO emissions are not rising at all, because they are still better than the average of 107 grams we know today. If all parties and countries deal with their climate effort in this way, we will be in the water every day. The Secretary of State found that the money used by tax incentives to make cars more economical and cleaner was not cost-effective, i.e. too little environmental profit for too much money. From the outset, he is now going to use that incentive money to make polluting cars cheaper. The vehicle tax goes down, the bpm goes down and there are lower added-ons for low-cost cars while the fuel-efficient cars get a higher addition. The result is: more large, heavy, low-cost cars, more climate damage and higher energy consumption. How credible is it when a Porsche Cayenne, with a CO2 emission of 215 grams per kilometer, becomes more than €3,000 cheaper in the purchase and a Toyota Prius, with 49 grams per kilometer, €2,400 more expensive? I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's explanation. My group understands, moreover, that the Secretary of State wishes on a number of points to address the environmental tax deductions which were not enough. We do have three pressing questions. Why are all regular cars made cheaper? That is certainly not cost-effective for the environment. This only costs the government tax revenue, but does not yield any social profit. I'd like an explanation. Why does the Secretary of State only break down green policy instead of opting for a smarter green fiscal policy that tackles CO emissions and also unhealthy soot emissions from old diesels? Why hasn't Finance intervened before? Indeed, cars have been fiscally stimulated for a long time, and that was no longer necessary at all. The picture has emerged that hybrid and electric cars in particular receive far too much subsidy for too little environmental gain. However, most of the tax deduction went and goes to petrol and diesel cars, which were rewarded for being more economical and less CO emissions. This tax remuneration policy has not been sufficiently successful with the state of the art and for far too long cars have been rewarded which have now been standard. Of course you have to give the cleanest cars a support in the back. I would like to get an explanation of why the Secretary of State did not intervene much earlier in the subsidy of these diesel and petrol cars. The cabinet shows stats from the loss of tax revenue up to 2 billion a year in 2013. However, most of this was not for electric and hybrid cars, but for diesel and petrol cars. The Secretary of State completes the tax support for hybrid and semi-electric cars, because TNO's research showed that many kilometres of petrol were driven with these cars. If you look more closely at that, you can see that a quarter of people are mainly driven by petrol and little by electricity. The remaining 75% are doing pretty well and on average 40% of the kilometres are driven on petrol. It could be better, but it's not negligible. I understand that this is being investigated all the time. Has there been any new research by TNO? Are there any newer data on the driving behaviour of the plug-in hybrid drivers? I'd like information from the Secretary of State on this. Is there any reason to change the policy on this issue too? Electric driving has the future. It's clean, it's quiet and it's durable, especially when the used power is green. The Netherlands is at the forefront of Europe. That is also extremely interesting economically. The cabinet's ambition was 200,000 electric and semi-electric cars in 2020 and 1 million in 2025. That number was already not fully achieved with the current policy, but with this new Autoletter it has gone completely out of the picture. We'll only have 100,000 by 2020, half of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u5	Mrs Vos says that the use of electric cars is environmentally efficient, especially if the electric current is green. However, the reply states that the electric current for these cars, the marginal kWh, is generated by coal rather than by wind. Has Mrs Vos taken note of the reply and of the fact that it is not a question of choosing green power for cars or, as she calls it, polluting power for cars?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u6	I have taken note of this; Mr Van Strien has a point. Anyway, even if these cars run on coal power, energy consumption is 30% lower. So there is always a profit for the environment. Moreover, there is of course much more profit: no emissions of NO and no emissions of particulate matter. It is also an extremely important development towards market electrification. We are not there yet, but there are many opportunities to ensure that most of the cars end up on sustainable power. I am extremely sorry to break this development now. We must continue to do so, but we must take a critical look at the use of tax incentives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u7	Mrs Vos says that all electricity should eventually be generated green, but that is completely unfeasible. We can't do that only with wind. These marginal kWhs will always be generated by coal or gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u8	I don't think so. We are increasingly going to decentralised generation of energy via sun and wind. Numerous studies show that electric cars can help with this. The generated power is stored via the electric cars as it were. This can become an extremely interesting system in which sustainable electricity goes together with charging the batteries of electric cars. Once we have taken that step, we must have sufficient scale: enough electric cars and enough homes and windmills where sustainable electricity is generated. I think there are great opportunities in this. It's an extraordinary pity to let that fall out of your hands again. In fact, the cabinet abandons its ambition for 2020: it is halved. Why does the Secretary of State do that? How does he feel about that? In his view, what is the social significance of electric and semi-electric driving, both from an environmental and an economic point of view? This creates an interesting economic sector for the Netherlands, but it is now being stopped. I would like to make a number of proposals. Of course, we also see that it is a good thing that this policy is being strengthened on a number of points, but why not opt for a smarter green fiscal policy? It is right to support the most clean vehicles in particular, i.e. fully electric. But for the time being, in the transition to a full electric market, plug-in hybrid cars are also of great importance. This also applies to ultra-efficient electric cars with a very small auxiliary engine, which emit very little CO. Why do we not maintain a green stimulus for these cars in this intermediate phase? It is strange that just for the regular, so polluting, cars all kinds of taxes go down. This is like a VVD policy: live the driver, your taxes are going down. The bpm goes down for all cars. This is particularly unfavourable in the case of energy-efficient cars, while it is profitable in the case of polluting low-cost cars. Why doesn't the Secretary of State differentiate that much anymore? Why does he bring down the vehicle tax for all cars? For example, why doesn't he differentiate to the weight? Make an incentive arrangement for private electric drivers, as in other European countries. Among other things, the ANWB has advocated this. We see that in particular the business market is leasing. However, all those private car owners who are best motivated are still not sufficiently achieved. Will the Secretary of State undertake to launch a plan to achieve this, for example with a purchase premium for individuals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u9	I hear Mrs Vos say that it is really no problem for GroenLinks that the Netherlands has the highest car taxes in the world or at least in Europe. According to GroenLinks, is that right or not a problem? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u10	We welcome the fact that there are high car taxes at the moment, because the car is quite polluting. I'm willing to bet that the social cost of the car is higher than what we pay for it at the moment. We think it is absolutely right that these taxes are there. They are an important incentive to encourage people to travel with the OV, to take the bike and to drive cleaner. On the last point, we now have a problem with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u11	Does that answer also apply if you know that this is detrimental to the Dutch economy? Limiting the transport possibilities for the Dutch is damaging the economy. Is it not a problem to have the highest rates in the world, even if this is detrimental to the economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u12	I do not agree with Mr Van Strien. I do not think this is detrimental to the economy at all. I dare say that investing in modes of transport other than cars, cleaner transport and in a different type of economy than our traditional transport economy is extremely much more economically beneficial for the Netherlands and that it also makes a greater contribution to the living and climate in that country. So I do not share Mr Van Strien's statement; I am proposing a completely different economy from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u13	I have one final comment or question. In this other way of transport, I can imagine public transport. Does Mrs Vos know that this transport option is infinitely more expensive than the ordinary car? Moreover, there is no guarantee that this will be more environmentally friendly than road transport by car.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u14	I think that is a very strange statement by Mr Van Strien. I think that if we were all to take the train in this country, there would still be a great deal to be done, and this would make a huge contribution to the environment. Perhaps we should have another debate on this at another time, because this is interesting. I was in the process of passing through some of the car letter measures and formulating an alternative. For example, we find it extremely regrettable that low-cost and heavy diesels in the lease become cheaper in the addition. It just can't be explained. Just keep the 25% add-on and don't lower it to 22%. Please enter the soot allowance for dirty diesels as soon as possible, and not only in 2019. Make this supplement much higher, too. For vans, for example, this is a surcharge of €62 per year, but that is far too little to have a real effect. In replying to the questions, the Secretary of State states that if he makes the roettaks three times as high, it will have three times as much effect. Why then, at least for vans, doesn't he make that tax much higher, for example €225? This amount is now also being paid for private cars. Support the electric driving infrastructure and in any case compensate for the climate damage of the Autobrief II. We are therefore very critical of this letter. We cannot understand its ratio. If the Secretary of State does not consider the green tax policy to be sufficiently effective, why is he going to favour dirty cars? A smarter policy is needed and possible. This would enable the Netherlands to maintain its leading role, which is also extremely interesting economically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to be able to contribute, on behalf of the Animal Party, to the debate on the Auto Letter II. This is not simply because there are large similarities between cars and cows in general. The car is called the "holy cow." The car is of untouchable value. The government should stay away from that because it is a symbol of less than half a century of widespread prosperity: a car for everyone. The Volkswagen brand derives its name from that. Earlier, that brand was synonymous with that shared freedom symbol, but now it is much more evoked the association with shuffle software, intended to actively mask the negative effect of car use. Besides the holy cow of the motorist, the car is also referred to as the milk cow of the government. This aspect is also one of the starting points of the Autobrief II. In addition to the analogies between cow and car in daily speech use, there are physical similarities between cows and most cars. We are talking about greenhouse gas emissions. A cow emits as many greenhouse gases as 70,000 car kilometres. Therefore, it is difficult to understand why the government wants to reduce car use in particular, but at the same time it is heavily subsidising dairy farming. To give an idea: a calf farmer receives 92% of his income from a subsidy and the average dairy farmer receives a subsidy of more than €24,000 per year, despite the key role he plays in causing climate problems. I would like to mention these examples because I would like to hear from the Secretary of State why the cabinet has not so far chosen a more comprehensive approach to combating the externalities associated with car traffic, in which problems such as greenhouse gas emissions, nitrogen and particulate matter, noise and odour pollution are addressed in full through a dashboard of fiscal control mechanisms, the polluter pays and good behavior is promoted. It is difficult for many citizens to understand why such steering mechanisms are used soloistically, by subject, while a central direction would be so much more obvious. The Secretary of State has spoken in the past about such steering mechanisms. I quote: "Where taxes are used to influence behaviour, there is a chance that people will actually do what you want to do." Then tax revenue falls. Surely it cannot be that we regret that the citizens are going to do what the government is trying to do and that the government is sad about the fact that tax revenues are falling? At the same time, the Secretary of State indicated that consumption taxes, such as VAT and environmental taxes, are relatively undisrupting. So he apparently sees bread in consumption taxes as a driving tool. This could apply to a higher VAT rate on polluting products, VAT exemption or bringing clean products below the low VAT rate. It could apply to environmental taxes on polluting fuels, such as diesel and kerosene, in the context of 'polluter pays' or, as proposed in the current letter, to increase the business addition to commercial cars. I fully agree with Mr Vos that it is difficult to understand that the driver in a Porsche Cayenne gets better off in the Car Letter and the driver in a Toyota Prius gets worse off. It's very hard to explain. The key question is, of course, why the cabinet uses the consumer's freedom of choice as an argument not to introduce, for example, a meat tax, whereas additional taxation of car traffic with the same argument can also be seen as a violation of the same consumer's freedom of choice. The Animal Party therefore calls for a more comprehensive approach to the "polluter pays" principle, without regard to the person and without regard to the category. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether it is merely a political choice to approach externalities caused by car traffic differently from other consumer choices, for example in the area of air traffic or other consumer choices, even if they cause far more externalities than car traffic? And if that is the result of political choices, can he give a little more insight into that in this house of reflection than so far? The core of the Car Letter is that rewards and penalties are used as tools to encourage drivers to make environmentally friendly choices. Does the Secretary of State and our group believe that these instruments should and could be used more widely? Does he have any concrete plans in this direction, including in fields other than the dossier we are discussing today? If that is not the case, can he indicate the difference in principle? And if the scope of this debate is not sufficient, can he inform the Chamber in writing? The cabinet wants to focus on encouraging the use of zero-emission cars. My group welcomes this, but also sees the cabinet clinging to two thoughts when it comes to the greening of the fleet. The cabinet seems to find incentives sympathetic but costly and has difficulty in marrying those two greats. This leads to compromises if it falls only partially into a low add-on category of some of the electric car traffic. Why is it not more generous to use the greening of car traffic through the promotion of electric transport? Isn't it a bit cheap to point to the costs on the one hand, but on the other hand to look away from the particular phenomenon that a large part of all subsidised hybrid and electric cars disappear shortly after entry into service abroad? The cabinet indicates that it does not matter whether these electric kilometres are driven here or somewhere else, but that thought seems a little too easy when it comes to Dutch taxpayers' money. The Dutch taxpayers do not want only electric kilometres to be made. They also want less soot emissions and less fine dust emissions, so it is more pleasant for themselves and their children to stay on the streets in the Netherlands. This does not happen if cars are exported to Norway, Denmark or Jordan. Is the Cabinet prepared to examine in the short term how we can keep more electric and hybrid cars in our country, so that the private second-hand market is also provided, rather than hybrid cars leaking out to Jordan, Denmark and Norway? Is the Secretary of State prepared, for example, to consider to what extent the BPM exemption for electric transport can be made conditional, so that in the case of exports, the remaining BPM amount still has to be paid? The remaining bpm declaration is an existing tool for entrepreneurs and disabled people, for example. It does not therefore have to be complicated to introduce such a declaration also for owners of electric cars to make exports less attractive. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. I'm considering a motion on this point. Can the Secretary of State indicate what other instruments he intends to use to stimulate zero-emission driving? He has already indicated that he wants to reduce the energy tax on public loading posts, but not at what time. Non-fiscal measures such as increasing the number of charging points should not be left to the market alone. We see that an entrepreneur such as Fastned, currently operating electric charging stations at petrol stations along motorways, has an annual turnover of €75,000, coupled with an operational loss of 4 million euros. You won't last long. In my group's view, this indicates that the market cannot cope with these innovations on its own. What is the Secretary of State's view on this? I started my contribution with the request for a more comprehensive approach to achieving the climate goals agreed in Paris and the judgment of the judge in the Urgenda case. This can be cheaper and more efficient than simply by means of car taxes or a budget-neutral shift in car costs, calibrated by the degree of pollution. The Secretary of State has recently received 69,000 signatures requesting the introduction of a meat tax. The Scientific Council for Government Policy also calls, inter alia in the context of a better environmental policy, for an adaptation of the food system. It could be achieved on a budget-neutral basis. One day no meat would have the same environmental impact as taking a million cars off the road. This should not go undisputed in the context of this Car Letter. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u16	The Secretary of State states that he is able to answer directly. I shall give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for all your contributions. First things first. Sometimes it gets a little out of sight and sometimes you have to pick up parliamentary history again, but taxes have of course been introduced once to fill the state treasury. That has gotten a little out of sight with this type of tax. The 15 billion that Mr Van Strien mentioned although its composition differs, the order of magnitude of the amount has been the same for many years, so it is intended to fill the state treasury. However, it is clear that there are other goals around the car. We want to save as much as 15 petajoules across the domain of mobility, we have an energy agreement and we have climate objectives. Taxation, in its function of tax incentives and behavioral incentives, has irretrievably introduced car taxes. Whether that is happy in all respects must be discussed here. Here's the VVD guy who really thinks we should do something about the climate. Why? Because the real liberal thinks everyone should clean up their own mess. If you think you shouldn't transfer the debt to your grandchildren, you shouldn't park your ecological debt with your grandchildren. I don't think there's much discussion about that. Someone asked why I didn't intervene earlier. Well, intervention in car taxes is like causing a landslide. The word "car" in one sentence with the word "taxes" already causes a huge amount of excitement, no matter what fraction you speak. So I started with this wonderful dossier immediately after my arrival and devoted a whole sounding round to it. Fortunately, there are some things that come out that everyone seems to find. There are simply agreements about cars in relation to climate. Those appointments are agreements, that's what they're supposed to be. For everyone who has spoken, there is also the equally broad conviction that I have finished quite a few political groups that, in relation to the car, there must be irrevocable measures in this area that meet the climate objectives. However, everyone agreed that climate action should only be taken if it works and not if it does not work. There was broad agreement on this. More people than you sometimes think are willing to take climbing measures and fewer people than you sometimes think are willing to windowdressing, greenwashing and bullshit measures. So that was a good starting point, a while ago. We have come to a strong commitment in 2008, perhaps with these goals under the arm. We have adopted the world's most stimulant car tax instruments. Consumers can see that on the street.... has chosen the most economical models in the world since 2008. The evaluations of this will then be sunny. Well, they're not. The Court of Auditors is literally saying that the cost of the tax instruments to reduce CO has been completely out of control and that we must do something about it. Then the General Court comes to €1,600 per tonne, while it later became €3,000 per tonne. The Planning Agency for the Environment says that there is a fascination with CO, but that something should also be done about air quality. The economic experts who vet OECD countries say that they are not idiots, they say that the effect of Dutch policy is "small or non-existent," literally. The evaluation that I myself had carried out by an external and independent party is talking about much higher amounts per tonne than the General Court had come up with. Mr Van Strien says: efficiency will really be a sausage to this Secretary of State. Well, that's what I'm saying to him. That's what's keeping me awake right now. This is not a policy, and that is not a sausage to me at all. This is quite apart from the fact that I do not eat the stuff, but I will come back to that in response to Mr Koffeman. Mrs. Vos has concerns about the climate. There are quite a lot of people in this room who understand her concerns about the climate. However, the effect of what we have here on the climate was zero, and not about zero. Because of the compensation mechanisms that I will explain in this way, it was mathematically zero and that is sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u18	Honestly, I can't follow the Secretary of State in this. Mr Köhler also said that the earlier explanatory statement said that 1% more CO would be emitted in 2020. That's what I read in the NEV, by the way. It says quite neatly in a separate frame that the car letter could not be fully passed on because it was too short a day, but that CO emissions will be 1% higher by 2020 and in that 2030 will be 2% to 3% higher because cars will be less energy efficient. In addition, it says in the NEV that there will be more inefficient models on the market. So there's just going to be more CO emissions. How can the Secretary of State say that's not true?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u19	I'm going to explain that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u20	Of course, not in relation to what it is today, but in relation to the policy that was used earlier and that had a certain objective in 2020. I don't think the Secretary of State is gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u21	Compared to now and also to what it would have been otherwise, its effect is zero. Here's the deal. The climate doesn't stop at national borders. There is no such thing as a Dutch climate, there is no such thing as a European climate, but we have agreed on a system at European level. That system is called the manufacturer ceiling. It's the ETS in the car domain. I'm always pretty cheerful about the ETS, because I think it really works. On the manufacturer's ceiling as well. That is a European ceiling, which falls year after year. That means we're heading for average CO2 emissions from cars by 2020 of values we couldn't believe when the Toyota Prius was introduced, so low they were. What it was when it was non plus ultra will soon become the European average of newly sold cars. That's what that ceiling does. This means, of course, that as the Netherlands you can stimulate extra. Then you're gonna give extra funding to something. The car manufacturer in question will then be below the ceiling, thanks to Dutch subsidies, and then it will go up just as much elsewhere in Europe. That ceiling's pinching. If you push the waterbed down somewhere, it'll rise somewhere else. That waterbed isn't some kind of mirage, it exists, it's real. We confront the Dutch motorist with extra taxes, because we give subsidies, which leak out, which brings back the CO2 effect in extra low-cost cars in other parts of Europe. On balance, the climate has not noticed any of this. There are car manufacturers who have had a lot of fun with this policy, but the climate is crying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u22	Is that actually established? In the NEV, I read: 1% more CO emissions by 2020, 2% to 3% more by 2030. That's just right there. If what you say is true, it would be different in those reports. If you stop to favour all kinds of economical cars, why do you choose to make ordinary cars cheaper? I can't understand that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u23	I'll get to that. The answer to the question why that is not in the NEV is because the NEV is the NEV, so it's national. Apparently, that's what we chose to do. Whether this is very useful for the climate, we can ask ourselves out loud. But it's a National Energy exploration, while the climate is not national. If it leaks elsewhere, it has no meaning for the climate, no matter how many NEVs we release. There is no point in calculating climate effects nationally under a European roof. The effect of the previous letter is that we have subsidised the pollution of car parks in other countries by making it artificially cleaner here. The effect is mathematically zero, which is sad. Perhaps Mrs. Vos will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u24	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u25	Has the Secretary of State already made an effort to tackle this at European level? We hear the same story from the Secretary of State when it comes to pollution from our large industries. We are gradually in a kind of perverse spiral down, where there seems to be no point in national intervention, because then it leaks elsewhere. Has this been put high on the agenda in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u26	It has become a bit out of fashion to sing the blessings of the European Union. I'm gonna be very frugal in that and make a bit of an economical face. But if there is one thing that works in Europe, it is the manufacturer ceiling and the ETS. The environmental policy we are pursuing together is incredibly more efficient than what we have done at national level. In terms of emissions, we are in the spiral mentioned by Mrs Vos. That spiral's going down pretty hard. In terms of ETS and manufacturer ceilings, the Netherlands has indeed used a significantly stricter source policy. It works and it's efficient. It has an effect; that is the cheapest way to help the environment. This helps those who want to save money and those who want to do a lot about the climate, because that leaves more for the climate. The answer is therefore explicit: yes, the Netherlands has argued in favour of this. The Netherlands believes that this is very sensible. More has happened than a zero effect at the cost of 6 billion in subsidies. We have, of course, also disturbed the market. This has led to giggling among different manufacturers. The total world production of the Mitsubishi Outlander and the Volvo V60 Plug-in went to the Netherlands. All production on earth was sucked here because of our tax advantages. We have seen a lot of tax revenue disappear because of this advantage. The bpm was a tax that was still known within the Ministry in 2008 as good for 3.2 billion; the bpm is now doing less than half. We have all seen this happen because of the fact that that erosion took place. This cannot continue, because the policy we are pursuing is going to lead to even more excesses. Take a look in the brochures at the plug-in hybrid cars that have recently come on the market, or are still coming on the market. There are SUVs that are bigger than what we used to be the biggest ten years ago. Those are cars that weigh more than 2.5 tons, some have 400 horsepower, it doesn't fit between these two benches. If we're not careful, we'll subsidise it as if they were economical cars. I'm sure Mrs. Vos doesn't want to be seen in a car like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u27	That may have become clear from my story. Of course, take it, that money shouldn't go there. You mention a number of insane examples that will occur. Of course we'll get rid of it. But that does not mean that there are no other cars that make sense, such as the light, small, more economical ones, to encourage their sale. That's what I don't understand from your letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u28	I'll get to that. If a subsidy effect leaks completely and leads to additional tax pressure on the Dutch, but not a climate effect, this is simply unwise policy. I can also be enthusiastic about Mrs Vos's objectives. I can see that taxation is being used here as a behavioral instrument. I see the logic of that, without being a great supporter of it, but something that costs something but doesn't yield anything is called unwise policy. There's nothing else I can say. The uplifting message for everyone is, of course, that European source policy works: 80% of the impact on the streets is not because of our policy, but because of European source policy. This means that the car can emit an average of 95 grams per kilometre in 2021. That was the first Prius. We couldn't believe our eyes. The stakes are much lower. Parliament speaks quite openly about targets of 68 grams per kilometre. For the long term, I've heard even lower numbers, like between 30 and 40 grams per kilometer. Source policy works; it is firmly deployed by those who want the car to cause less climate damage. So that's what happens. Mrs. Vos asked if this letter would cause more damage to the environment. My answer to that is: above all, less damage to the state treasury. For the rest, we should be lucky to have this system in Europe. In this way, the challenge lies where it belongs: not with the government, not with the tax authorities, not with the state treasury, but with producers and consumers, who have to stay below the ceiling and thus by their offer and purchase behaviour outside the tax system to make sure that cars emit less. With this, the Autobrief focuses on an efficient use of public funds. Mr Van Strien asked me to do that, and he looked at me very hard. That is the commitment, because we do not do policies that cost anything, but that do not yield anything. This results in the most climate gains per tax euro. We're also betting on full electric. To be honest, there is still a certain risk of overstimuli rather than understimulation. After a certain period of time we really need to insert the thermometer in to see if that is not derailing again. I've already promised it to the House of Representatives. According to the National Energy Exploratory, this ultimately results in 1 to 2 petajoule more than was agreed in the energy agreement. This is, of course, mainly due to the fact that the policy we are pursuing here is being extended to 2019 or 2020. That was not yet the case in the energy agreement. So we do dive down a little bit every year. Many have already said that this will make the new fleet cleaner than it is today. Now the CO emissions of the average car sold are 107. This one's gonna be 96. Irrevocable, we see it go much further down afterwards. If you stimulate the pure electric cars plug-ins less than previously thought, it will of course be less. However, there will be more full-electric cars. Ultimately, the expectation is that there will be about a doubling of electrically driven kilometres. Eventually we're out on the mileage and not on the cars. It is about transport and not about tin. I had a lot to do in Amsterdam with speeding up the removal of old diesels. There are vans that stop on the moat with running engine. It can be calculated that they emit 30 to 100 times as much fine dust as their modern equivalent. I have been asked several times if that incentive could have been a little firmer. That is, in all honesty, also a question of seeking acceptance. Ultimately, it concerns people or entrepreneurs who may not have the largest cash flow in our entrepreneurial stock. They drive old vans. It is also about individuals who are not ready to drive a newer car with their wallet. A certain degree of caution and visibility on the driver, the citizen and the SME make an irrevocable impression in the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u29	The 15% tax that the Secretary of State does not want to introduce for old diesel vans until 2019 amounts to €62 per year. And that's going to take a few more years. To be honest, I do not think that any entrepreneur can take any notice of this. Why doesn't that percentage get a little higher, so it's actually gonna do something? I don't understand. I am opposed to what the Secretary of State himself said: this enormous damage to air quality, especially in urban areas. We all know from the reports, which are becoming increasingly urgent, that fine dust emissions are incredibly unhealthy, especially in urban areas. It's just really bad for people's health. People die before that every year. That seems urgent enough to me to put in place a measure that is going to do something, and soon, already as of 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u30	The health effect of particulate matter is just really bad. I don't have another word for that. Mrs Vos and I once had a portfolio in the capital, which was responsible for reducing fine dust emissions. I believe that Amsterdammers live an average of one and a half years shorter than people in the rest of the Netherlands. This is not only due to particulate matter, but it may have something to do with it. It's a trade-off between two cases. We charge entrepreneurs and individuals with higher burdens. At the same time, this is an issue. I think the Dutch have shown that they are quickly hypnotized in the car domain by additional charges or tax reductions. So let us hope that entrepreneurs will respond to this. Apart from that, of course, this is a problem that is solving itself very quickly. If you looked at the NO and fine dust overruns on maps of our big cities a few years ago, it was completely black. In most cities there are still a few places left. So this is a problem that is rapidly solving itself. The ambition to do this earlier, I understand. I have examined this seriously, but I do not see any possibility in the implementation. We're working with systems that can't handle this change. This is precisely the point where the Court of Auditors is right: the legacy systems restrict us to introducing new charges. We can't do that until 2019. I hope that the last vans that smell great will disappear from the city by then. That consideration has been made. There's one little thing attached to it, and that's the bpm. Well, one small thing: it has played a limited role in this debate. Mr Van Strien has brought it up. In reality, however, it is not so small. The bpm is as taxation for new cars quite problem-free. It's not hard: you take the numbers, multiply them by something, and then you have the bpm you need to determine. It's paid for at the sale. So far, so good. Then we created an entire industry through bpm arbritrate possibilities, which is based purely on the bpm for import and export. We have import and export tax collectors and import damages dealers; we have repairers and repairers; we have car-screwers and car-screwers; we have car transporters and car administration offices that import cars. Bpm can be avoided everywhere and in a variety of ways. Sometimes that is legal and, given European legislation, nothing can be done about it. Sometimes that is not legal, but very difficult to discover by the Tax Administration. I've seen a lecture on ways to avoid the bpm. Unfortunately, I can't give it here, because she's almost entertaining. At the same time, it is deeply sad that we are stuck with a tax whereby we have tried through many legal channels to prevent leaks, but we cannot do so. Let me take it off my head for a second: we now have 150,000 new cars sold every year. You don't make that up: that a country like the Netherlands, which is one of the most prosperous countries in the world, imports cars from neighbouring countries on a large scale, which are remarkably often damaged, or whatever. There has been a very strange industry. The only way to prevent this is to reduce the bpm to a much lower level. Mr Van Strien asked how long that would take. This time, there were more targets. It was explicitly intended that if this Car Letter was to raise money, it would also simply take it to the small second-hand driver, in the form of the bpm. There was an explicit desire to allow those who cannot afford a new car and who may even be driving a somewhat older car to benefit from tax revenues. In financial terms, they were competitors of each other. How long it takes, it's up to next Cabinets. The first blow, however, is worth a dropper. As we return the bpm, the avoidance also becomes less large. At some point, it comes to such a low level that avoidance does not recoup itself. To be honest, that's what I'm looking for. This does not make car policy at European level greyer as far as CO is concerned, but greener as far as particulate matter is concerned. We get NO for free. This makes it a little cheaper for the regular car driver. And yes, there are more goals in car policy than just environmental targets. A goal is also not to make people pay more taxes than necessary. When Mrs. Vos said the little car is getting more expensive, I think she meant the Prius specifically. The ordinary little car, like the Volkswagen Up, is getting cheaper. In fact, in percentage terms it becomes more cheaper than a number of large models. Specifically, Mrs. Vos asked why the plug-ins are not included in the transition. She regrets that we do the electric car, but not the plug-ins. We are talking about a car type whose extra stimulus has not brought us any climate benefits. We are talking about a type of car that has made a sustainable almost priceless seizure of government revenue. We're talking about a car that's a lot less electric than we thought. Unfortunately, I do not have newer research than that of June 2015. Only a quarter of the kilometres were driven electrically, but still: it is a type of car that is farther than the average car from the standard with which it was tested. On balance, however, CO emissions from this car have increased the waterbed effect, related to the theoretical figures, taken into account. In practical cases the thing scores even worse than the average car compared to the standard. It has made the climate worse. Moreover, it is a type of car that is going to get on the road at a fast pace in much larger and much heavier variants. That is why I do not see in any way any policy reason for further subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u31	I'm questioning the Secretary of State's numbers. I think an average of 40% of the mileage is electric. I understand that new TNO research is coming, which shows that it looks even more beneficial. I hope we will soon hear from the Secretary of State. Maybe he can say something about it already. The Secretary of State can of course apply a different policy to the very large cars, but why does he not want to look at what part of those cars is capable of contributing to the environment in the transition period, until we can all drive electrically? Wouldn't it also help if the Secretary of State gave the private driver much more opportunity to drive this? In my opinion, it would perhaps be a little more critical of the use of the car than many business drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u32	That would be very nice if we could find a type of car that, through subsidies, I quote: '... would be able to contribute to the environment'. The hybrid is not up to that task. I think I have sufficiently explained, with the help of the waterbed effect, that the hybrid does not make that contribution. This contribution is made in a different way, very convincingly, if we continue to pursue source policy in this way, and also in the most efficient way. One of the speakers said in view of the private driver that it is a pity that we see the cars we have subsidised going abroad, because there is still more than CO. There's also particulate matter. For this reason, the House of Representatives has advocated that this is also important for second-hand cars in order to continue the half-price for the vehicle tax for a while longer. This will reduce the tendency to make these cars disappear abroad. This has led to an amendment which has now been included in the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u33	Of course, the proposed measure can do something to slow down the export of these cars, but why does the Secretary of State not take back the residual benefit enjoyed on electric cars when those cars are exported? It's very common, when you drive a bpm-free car in the Netherlands, for example, you're a taxi driver and you want to export it, the government says: you have to make a rest bpm-declaration. Why don't we do that to electric cars? In the Netherlands, we are dealing with the largest Tesla density in the world, but of every three cars that come on the market, one goes straight to Norway or Denmark, with tax subsidies from the Netherlands. Why don't you tell a Tesla rider who wants to sell his car in Denmark or Norway: you enjoyed a six-month advantage, but there's a lot of left-over bpm that we'd like to get back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u34	There's a mistake in thinking. You bought a car in Holland with bpm. If you want to sell that car abroad, the bpm will be offset because otherwise it would disrupt European trade, the internal market. So that means you get the remaining part of the bpm back at the border. Mr Koffeman is now asking: will we not simply raise bpm on cars that are exported? Then we lift bpm on those cars, but then you drive an hour later to the border and then you get the bpm back, because the essence of this arrangement is that you get the bpm back. There's no point in lifting bpm first if you get it back after that. Nor does the Norwegian example appeal to me in this respect. In the Netherlands there is no bpm on those cars, nor in Norway. There is no logical reason why there is no loss for the state treasury to buy Tesla's in the Netherlands and then send it to Norway, because in both countries there is no bpm on those things. The IRS isn't in the middle of it at all. That's not a problem. There is no possibility of arbitration. We're not losing anything. In the Netherlands many Tesla's land, because in Tilburg the mirrors are screwed on and then they go to Norway, but that has nothing to do with taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u35	It may well be that bpm is not the most appropriate means. This is not about Tesla's assembled in Tilburg and then going to Norway. That's not the problem. These are Tesla's that come on the market in the Netherlands, are driven here and then sold second hand to Norway within a short period of time, with the Dutch taxpayer paying the tax advantages that apply to that car, while the car will then drive in Norway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u36	No, that's not right. If you sell a Tesla here, there's no tax on it. The thing's being sold to Norway. The Norwegians don't pay taxes on it either. The Dutchman doesn't pay taxes on that either. That's exactly the same as when the car would go straight to Norway. On cars that go directly to Norway, no Dutch tax is paid, so there is no loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u37	That's not right. The ANWB complains about this, too. The ANWB finds it scandalous that here in the Netherlands many tax advantages apply to the purchase of electric cars and plug-in hybrids, while second-hand traders make them all disappear abroad in a short time, because they say: in those markets they like to benefit from the Dutch advantage. I really think that the Secretary of State should have a little talk about that with his supporters. Perhaps he can then inform the Chamber in writing, because the interest groups, including motorists, complain that there is no second-hand market in the Netherlands for hybrid and electric cars, because all these cars disappear abroad and therefore no business cars remain available for the Dutch market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u38	We're gonna get the numbers. The plug-in hybrid would be the car that is exported on a large scale. In 2015, there were almost 80,000 plug-in hybrids registered. The export of plug-in hybrids in that year was over 200. That's not a significant export. There is a case known from the media, in which the Nissan Leaf went to country x, y and z on a large scale, but that turned out to be an unsold stock that Nissan dropped off in another country. That's not weird, because if you can't sell the stuff in one country, you're going to another country. That had nothing to do with the export of used cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u39	In 2015, the Financieele Dagblad devoted a large article to the export of Dutch plug-in hybrids and electric cars. It states that of every three electric cars sold here in the Netherlands, one disappears abroad in a short period of time. These figures are different from those mentioned by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State is also quoted in the article, so I assume he knows it and that the article in the Ministry is known. The Financial Dagblad is not a newspaper that doesn't make it to the Ministry, so I ask the Secretary of State to look at it again and inform us about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u40	I don't know every article of the FD by heart, but I also discussed in detail the reexport of cars in the House of Representatives. That will also be in the Acts. Besides, I don't know all of them by heart either. If you don't pay taxes on a car and then transport it abroad, that's not a loss. If the car had gone directly abroad, we would not have seen any tax revenue either. For the time being, it is not the case that the exports of these plug-ins would have started on a large scale. I have the statistics here for me. I have no reason to respond in writing. Then there's going to be exactly the same thing in the letter as what I'm reporting right now. Then the argument remains that it does not matter where they drive for the climate. Admittedly, that is the case with air quality. I cannot bring Mr Köhler's 1% home so quickly. The issue of horizontal versus vertical is finance jargon that no man ever understands. Compared to the original plan and within Dutch borders, it scores slightly less. Considering the original plan and the European borders, it scores exactly the same. Today it scores significantly better, both European and Dutch. That's the answer. Mr Köhler's question is also whether the source policy on fine dust and NO is effective. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I invite Mr Köhler to look at the fine dust and NO map of Amsterdam from ten to fifteen years ago. He might still be able to get it. It'll scare the shit out of him. Back then, that map was full of black dots and now barely. The policy has been extremely efficient. Invisible, not a man who sees it, not a man who smells it; but it is all happening, on a phenomenal scale and at an enormous pace. The mileage tax is still highly recommended by Mr Köhler. It is true that the cabinet has decided not to do anything with it during this cabinet period. In the Netherlands, at least according to Mr Van Strien, his theorem 'the more driving, the more taxation' is even overly implemented through excise duties, which are very high in the Netherlands. There are two things to say about the research on the table. The phenomenon of mileage taxation has, of course, been studied in great detail, but the Energy Agreement has also promised that, should there be private initiatives or industry initiatives to sit at the table and investigate, the Empire will then join and provide corresponding assistance. That is the agreement made in the energy agreement. I don't think I've convinced Mrs. Fox. She still seems a little upset about the fact that normal cars are also becoming cheaper. I'm telling you the truth here. There are more goals for car taxes than just climate. It is also about the fact that an important provision, namely car mobility, is simply affordable for Dutch people who are not stinkingly rich. A lot of people depend on a car somehow. For people with a small wallet, it sometimes means an extraordinary amount. This is also an objective of car tax policy. This affordability has also been pursued for the ordinary motorist, who cannot even afford all these subsidised cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u41	Did the cabinet consider the current cars to be far too expensive for the current drivers? The question is really: why was it now necessary to reduce the car tax across the board? This, of course, has harmful effects when it comes to discouraging people from taking steps to move in a different way. Why did the cabinet think the burden on the driver was so heavy that they had to go down?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u42	Because of the waterbed effect, this change in car taxes on a European scale does not affect the climate and does not affect the climate any worse than if we had left it untouched. In fact, there is a huge change in the European fleet. But it was the government's view that it does not give a pass, if it does not have a clear purpose, in this case a climate goal, to send one Dutchman with sometimes €20,000 to €30,000 implicit subsidy and to have the other Dutchman pay for it, while the one who receives €30,000 subsidy, in many cases was not financially worse off in his wallet than the one who had to pay for it. That imbalance can only be defended if there is a very firm objective to it and it was not in this case. A system that costs something, but doesn't yield anything, is a bad system. We have put all kinds of Dutch people on the line for that, and that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u43	If you had said 'I am going to abolish the benefits for electric and hybrid cars', I would have regretted that, but I could have followed that. But now you say, at the same time, I'm going to make all ordinary cars cheaper. Then I say: this is just a relief for all drivers. I don't see the social purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u44	It's budget neutral. A budget neutral conversion of car taxes has been chosen. That is not a reduction in the burden. It's not a burden increase either. Any other choice would have been possible, but it has become this choice. I am now, of course, hearing that Mrs Vos had no objection to an increase in charges in the car domain. I don't think that's a secret. But enough colleagues have also disagreed with her. Otherwise, I wouldn't be standing here. I come to the social significance of electric driving. In the long term, energy sources will be more sustainable. It is still a very long time before the marginal kilowatt hour is a sustainable one. It is precisely the extra kilowatt hours that are not produced sustainably. Ultimately, we can predict that electric driving will become more the norm than burning raw materials for high-quality plastics, because that is what we are doing now. That is what we load every time we refuel. In time, it will phase out. But a Dutch headline on European policy, as has been said, does not make any sense. Mrs. Vos wants the diesels more expensive in the add-up. The Netherlands is one of the European countries with the smallest share of diesel. In France, the share of diesel is around half. There are countries where it is above 50%. The Netherlands currently sits around a quarter and continues to decline during this period. So we are one of the least diesel-driven countries in Europe. I believe that the policy advocated by Mrs Vos has long been implemented. We owe this to our limited share of diesel. What appealed to me was Mr Koffeman's speech, namely that cars are like cows. I don't eat cows, but I don't eat cars, so that's good for me. He especially challenged me to talk about VAT differentiation, both at the beginning and at the end of his speech. I have recently been in wide-ranging discussions with the Animal Party in general. There is an important difference between VAT differentiation and car taxes. With VAT differentiation, we must first of all abide by European legislation. Furthermore, VAT differentiation is extremely complex in implementation, for example when it comes to the higher rate for meat. I can already see that there are whole departments at the Tax Office that have to search through new fork-and-ready meals that have come onto the market to see what the percentage of meat in them is. That is extremely problematic and I really would not want to go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u45	Of course, it is not difficult to ridicule proposed solutions, but in my opinion it is not that complicated at all. There's no need for people from the IRS to dig forks in ready-to-eat meals. If a meal or product contains more than a certain percentage of meat, it falls into the high rate and otherwise does not. You'd think this would be very easy to realize. The declaration of ingredients shows to the percent exactly how much meat is in it. Where does this caricature come from a tax officer who has to dig through all kinds of ready-to-eat meals with a fork?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u46	It's not a caricature, because I just made it up. If that's a caricature by now, that would be a world record. Mr Koffeman really thinks too lightly about this. VAT is already a difficult practice to implement due to different definitions. That's what I'm talking about. Let me put it to you in Dutch. This isn't gonna make it any better. You're gonna have a lot of discussions about what percentage it is. Then companies are going to be optically just underneath it, but maybe not in real life. That's not a big party. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u47	Mr. Koffeman, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u48	In the letter to the car we saw that we also looked for this kind of limit for CO emissions from cars, that the car manufacturers were just underneath it and that it was not a problem. If it is not a problem in car mobility, I wonder why it would be a problem in food supplies. Moreover, there are tax measures other than VAT differentiation. That is also what we see in cars, where we talk about income adjustment and about vehicle tax. There are many ways of exerting influence through fiscal instruments. The Secretary of State begins his answer at the tail of my question, but the beginning of my question was: why not an integrated approach? The integral approach was: if you find people willing to not eat meat one day a week, it's the same as a million cars off the road. That is a debate that is more profitable than we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u49	Let me first answer the smaller question and then the big one. Mr Koffeman never heard me say that differentiation between car types is not a problem. The recent affairs have shown that it is a problem, but, however much that is a problem, that is peanuts compared to what we would have if we had to do it with meat. At least for cars there is a type test agreed at European level, which is well documented. It's a car, so you can make some money for it. That's different from meals or meal components. I'm not saying this for ridicule. I'm saying this for comparison. Should there be a European type-approval test for ready-to-eat meals? That's an unstoppable thing. That's what drives us crazy at the IRS. Then the recipe is changed, then we have to do new type-approval tests and then people still have to say it again, because that's lame looking at the meal to see how much meat is in it. The underlying question concerns the integrated approach. The integral approach would be to somehow treat every tonne of CO in the same way. That would mean something. It is in itself a sensible idea that the CO burden that is currently on products is at least the same per tonne. Let us perhaps note that there will then be a lot of environmental taxes that need to be reduced very dramatically. Then the excise duty on petrol is probably a factor of ten too high. The most important effect would be in that category. The support for the reduction of car taxes has not proved overwhelming here, because this will have to be covered elsewhere, but there is an integrated approach to this in Europe at the level of cars. There's no region in the world that mimics us. All European countries have a single policy for all types of cars, namely source policy. That is extremely efficient. This is also, in a sense, the case for the ETS. The ETS is a very important part of CO emissions, more than half of it, on a European scale. At present, 28 countries have a system which, in the same intelligent way, reduces CO emissions, not through a levy but through a ceiling system. These are examples of an integrated approach which I always welcome and which indeed does not include meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u50	A final interruption by Mr Koffeman and I suggest that the Secretary of State continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u51	Finally. The question remains why the cabinet does not want to influence certain consumer choices by appealing to the freedom of choice of consumption and in other cases does. Why do you do that to cars? Why don't you say, "if you want to drive a fat diesel, you have to know for yourself, that's your freedom of choice" and we say, if you want to eat a fat steak, "that's your freedom"? Why the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u52	There is, I think, no one who says that diesel cars can no longer be driven. That's not the policy. It is true that environmental externalities have been strained. This has proved to be more problematic in meat. In me Mr Koffeman has no meat-eater, but many do. I believe that about society as a whole of eating meat, the contribution to CO emissions is about the same as driving. That's about right. Mr. Chairman. I think I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u53	Mr. Chairman. Good example does follow well. The name I praised Law Elaboration Autobrief II ensures that Mr Koffeman makes a move for a collecting law on environmental taxes under the name Wet sacred cow I. We wait with interest. The Secretary of State has referred to the combination of the words 'car' and 'taxes' which I quote 'in all political groups would cause excitement'. With my group, I have not noticed any of this. Now it may be that I have little eye for that, but it can also be because we do not read the Telegraph, just like 90% of the people in the country. The Secretary of State has clearly replied to me on the impact of the proposals on CO emissions. The 1% by 2020 to 3% by 2030, which will be added, at least less by then as a result of these proposals, will be compensated elsewhere in the European Union, which means that the overall impact is zero in terms of greenhouse gas emissions across Europe and indeed throughout the world. That is a clear answer and also a plea for his proposals as far as we are concerned. The Secretary of State has said that the EU's source policy against environmental pollution is working. Yeah, we've noticed that, too. It is good that he points that out again, but here too, it works better on paper than in practice. On paper, the figures he mentions are correct, that emissions will automatically go back from 107 units to 95, but then they are counted outside of the fraud software. It's all precalculations of what it's gonna be like if those cars are actually gonna meet that standard. Nevertheless, EU resource policy will work in the long term and will also be more effective than specific taxes that only affect the Netherlands. On the fine dust surcharge for dirty diesel vehicles, the Secretary of State proposes two new things for me. First, he says that the surcharge can only start in 2019, because then we can only have the introduction at the Tax Administration. So far, I had only read in the documents that that was to give the car owners of those dirty vehicles a few more years to prepare themselves for this shocking event. That was said a few years earlier: they had to be able to prepare for that. Then I thought, "Oh, does a levy in 2019 of €65 a year make such a long preparation time or necessary, psychologically?" Now I understand that there is another, real reason why it can't be done sooner. This is regrettable, but obviously inevitable. The second point I would like to make is that the Secretary of State said that the surcharge could not be raised, because it has to be borne in mind that the owners of vans and passenger vehicles do not have that much money to some extent, so that it is not easy for them to pay that surcharge. In view of the very small amounts, that seems to me to be a somewhat exaggerated argument. I don't think such a supplement is about fineing those groups for bad behavior. If that were the case, my group would not be in favour of it, because we do not believe in it. In my view, it is a question of making that amount so high that it is financially attractive for those people to buy a new or a better second-hand vehicle instead of such an old polluting vehicle. So that's what you achieve with a higher charge, the proceeds of which you channel back. This also happens after a buy-back scheme. That's how you're gonna meet these people financially. You can do all this much better and more effectively with a higher levy. We continue to believe that, unless the Secretary of State manages to convince us otherwise in the second term. We were disappointed in the response to the mileage tax. We already know that the energy agreement will contribute to further research into proposals from industry organisations. We had hoped that the renewal of the car tax system would bring the possibility of a mileage tax closer, if only by a study which will be ready in the near future, so that better agreements can be reached in a subsequent government agreement. The fact that the Secretary of State doesn't even have that on offer doesn't seem to us to be positive. We are going back to my group in the light of some of our critical questions and others which are not satisfactory at all. We will consider whether we will vote for or against this law next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u54	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has explained to us that the current policy is not working and that it therefore needed to be changed. He has shared with us the waterbed effect in Europe. Nevertheless, I would like to talk about what we are doing in the Netherlands and why it is important to achieve a number of environmental objectives in the Netherlands. We have made the agreement in the energy agreement that CO emissions from the mobility sector are now plus 24% compared to 1990, so that's very bad -- that's minus 17% by 2030. That deal stands, and it also stands for the Secretary of State. My question is how he is going to solve the increase to 3% extra by 2020, which is going to act through his actions in the Netherlands. How is he going to compensate for that negative policy in the Netherlands? I would like an answer to that, because if taxation fails, why does he not use other measures to make car traffic more energy efficient and cleaner in terms of emissions? I would like to continue to remind the Secretary of State that with the current policy, the policy before the Autoletter II, we will achieve a CO emissions of 27 g/km by 2020. It does go up to 96 g/km and that is just a deterioration. I would also like to hear a reaction to that. I'm sticking to my position. If the Secretary of State is not satisfied with the current policy, I say: make it better instead of largely abolishing the incentive policy and then making the ordinary, polluting car cheaper. I don't understand that ratio, Secretary of State. You always love math and calculating everything and everything, but why make the ordinary car cheaper? That's what this is, and then it just comes around the corner because it's important to reduce the burden on the regular driver. As far as I am concerned, that does not fit into the picture of someone who is aiming for a more effective and efficient use of tax incentives, because it does nothing at all, except perhaps to make a lot of people feel comfortable, but that does not seem to me to be the purpose. I find it extremely regrettable that the Secretary of State has only approached the question of electric and semi-electric cars from the angle that it is apparently not CO-effective. Electric cars also make a major contribution to improving air quality, because they do not emit pollutants. They also have an extremely interesting economic effect. CE Delft has calculated that the current policy could lead to some 19,000 fte extra by 2020. I would like another response from the Secretary of State. All this is now being watered down. I told you, what I really don't understand is that the Secretary of State is now making so many things cheaper. I'd like to make a proposal to the Secretary of State. He wants to lower the bpm. Then don't do that across the board for all cars, but just do it for the most economical cars or opt for a larger CO differentiation. He also wants to reduce the tax on motor vehicles for all cars. Why doesn't he differentiate these more strongly by weight? Keep the load steady, but differential more strongly to weight. The lease addition count goes down. Why doesn't the Secretary of State ensure that heavy, low-cost cars, and certainly diesels, at least stay at the higher rate of 25? Then there is also an incentive in the leasing market to strive for more economical, and therefore often also more energy efficient and cleaner cars. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State why he is not considering giving an additional incentive to the private electric car market. It seems that it becomes less interesting for the business driver to drive electric, but that the private individual is indeed very interested in that. I would like to hear an answer to the question as to why there can be no fund, which can partly be filled with the taxes that are now being removed elsewhere from which the State Secretary can obtain a smart purchase premium for private buyers of electric cars. I would like to endorse Mr Köhler's comments on the rockettaks. I want to tell the Secretary of State that in 2017, 350,000 diesel passenger cars will run without a filter. These pour out 30 to 100 times as much fine dust as other cars, but the Secretary of State wants to keep that going until 2019. Apparently, it can't go any faster. Afterwards, too, we hardly tackle it effectively. That's not possible for the sake of public health, is it? I would also like to say on that point: Secretary of State, just do what you have to do and get this problem out of the world more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u55	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers he has given. I'm not entirely satisfied with it, as he's noticed. This also has to do with the fact that the Secretary of State seems to be shopping a little selectively in the free movement of cars in Europe. He is concerned about the fact that against the approximately 450,000 new imported cars are 150,000 young used cars. Apparently it is a problem there, but the massive export of electric cars that are partly financed by Dutch government subsidies, he finds no problem, or a problem that is not soluble. I very much wonder if it is. On April 7th 2015 there was an article in the Dutch newspaper 'De Financieele Dagblad' entitled: Electric car massively exported. In that article, the Dutch government's objective is to have a larger electric car fleet in the Netherlands, not only for business drivers but also for private buyers and people who want to buy a second hand electric car. A large number of Dutch experts say in the article that it is very undesirable that these electric cars and the plug-in hybrids disappear across the border massively and that this means a significant loss of Dutch government revenue. If we do not do it via the bpm, as the Secretary of State explained, then there must be other tax opportunities to prevent those cars from leaving the country massively. The environmental investment deduction remains for a handy entrepreneur when he runs a new Tesla and exports that thing six months later. The Secretary of State could therefore take a tax measure against this. He could say that this environmental investment deduction doesn't last very long when your car goes abroad. In recent years, out of the three electric cars delivered in the Netherlands, one in no time crossed the border to be sold second hand to Norway or Denmark. The ANWB complains about this; I'm not the only one who has trouble with it. Marco Eenenname, expert electric driving of the ANWB, explains that this export is very undesirable; if the Netherlands wants to be a frontrunner in electric driving in order to prevent air pollution and climate change, these cars must continue to drive in our country after purchase. He complains that this is not the case. The fact that the Secretary of State does not recognise that this phenomenon is taking place is a great pity and a very short turn of events. For that reason, I would like to table a motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman and Mr Teunissen tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a large proportion of the hybrid and electric vehicle fleet is exported shortly after entry into service;]] [[whereas tax incentives in this area are partly offset for the domestic market;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a plan to reduce export benefits for (semi-) electric cars and to report to the Court within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. Kst-34391-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u56	Then there's the big question. I do not think the Secretary of State is sufficiently committed to this. The Secretary of State says he doesn't see any opportunities to tackle major sources of climate damage. That's why he wants to stick to the car; "that's hard enough." Let me get this straight. Tackling climate damage from cars is certainly difficult enough. But it is not the case that this should stand in the way of a more integrated approach. I told you, if we got all the Dutch to stop eating meat one day a week, it would be equivalent to taking a million cars off the road. We should not be too easy to think about indiscretions and say that civil servants should then search through all the ready-made meals. I believe that there are easier ways of tackling major sources of climate damage through tax instruments, whether through differentiated VAT or through a meat tax, or by allowing the Netherlands to argue that the subsidy for this climate-unfriendly industry should be reduced. I have already mentioned the example of calves farmers who receive 92% of their income. This is happening through Europe, but from the Netherlands we do have some influence on this. I see the Secretary of State now making a gesture which makes me think he agrees with me that this is not right. It would be nice if the Secretary of State in the Cabinet would argue in favour of a more integrated approach. If my solutions are too simple, I would like to accept that from the Secretary of State, but he has such a huge battalion of officials that they will certainly be able to come up with better solutions for a more comprehensive approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u57	Thank you. I see the Secretary of State can respond immediately. I call the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u58	Mr. Chairman. Mr Köhler said he had not noticed any excitement in his party about the crossroads of taxes and cars. Perhaps at the time he was able to learn about this excitement he did not yet participate in parties that are excited, but in parties that do not yet show such excitement. But I think that the SP at local level always stirs exceptionally when the parking taxes for the small car driver are at risk of dramatically increasing. I say this with great appreciation. Because of his party history, I think he just missed this coincidence. I should just like to take note of Mr Köhler's remark that he thinks the rocktacks are low. Intellectually, I get it, but I can't do much about it right now, and I don't see any room for it either. Mrs Vos also raised this point. It is certainly not the case that I think people should prepare for this for a long time. Perhaps that would be a little exaggerated. Mrs Vos asks me how the cabinet will solve the rise in CO in the transport domain. I am always a warm advocate of European source policy on this issue. But beyond that, this subject has gotten far from my bed, at least from my wallet. This seems to me to be something that the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment should think about, together with the Minister responsible for mobility. It is a bit far-reaching to go through a debate on a car letter to the CO problem across the entire transport domain. I'm not making that happen, I'm telling Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u59	I could imagine if you had to do this now, today. But I expected that when you came to the cabinet with this Car Letter, there was indeed a look at what this means for the total CO estimate that the Netherlands has. Especially since the climate has just been discussed, for example in the context of Paris and because the judge says that all kinds of things need to be better and faster. So I would have expected the cabinet to have an opinion on it. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to submit to the Cabinet how it will compensate for the additional CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u60	Of course it is, because the cabinet is working on the fuel vision, issued the National Energy Exploratory at the end of last year and issued the Paris letter the first half of this year. The Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment is responsible for this. It has set out in all kinds of letters what, also in the international context, is the policy of the cabinet where these matters are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u61	I read those letters because I'm following this fairly well. However, I have not read about the negative effects, at least at Dutch level, of your Autobrief II. I would therefore like to ask you whether the cabinet can send us a letter indicating how it will at least compensate for these negative effects. Perhaps you could submit this request to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u62	In those letters there is not much to read about the negative effects because there are no negative effects. The cabinet therefore does not have to respond to it either. And then there is the National Energy Exploratory; in a European energy exploration it would certainly not get any worse. That is my answer to Mrs Vos's second question. She keeps calling for a deterioration that really isn't there. She says that from 87 g/km to 95 g/km is a deterioration. It is indeed a deterioration compared to what we had otherwise done on national territory, but it is not a deterioration compared to the performance in Europe as a whole. That was also my answer to Mr Köhler, who then summed it up quite eloquencely in his own words. Mrs Vos also remains a little indignant about the idea that the regular car driver should be cheaper out. The clear view of this cabinet is that regardless of the environment, the ordinary car driver has a legitimate interest in not paying taxes for something that has no effect. It is the deep-seated view that the ordinary Dutchman, for whom the car plays an important role at times, should not be more expensive than necessary. We may not soon be able to agree on that view. The electric car can certainly mean something in terms of air quality, but as Mrs Vos knows, this will be particularly true in the major cities. In addition, we can see that the transport of cars from the Euro 6 fleet has a huge effect on air quality. If all vehicles that comply with Euro 0, 1, 2 and 3 will automatically go out, that will solve a huge amount of emissions in the cities. I do not want to make the direct link between employment and car subsidies. If we can only grow the economy by buying subsidies, we are doomed to death. Mrs Vos also calls for greater differentiation in CO emissions. The current policy, which is exceptionally unsuccessful, may have the greatest CO differentiation between cars on earth. We have a phenomenal CO dependency in the bpm; I think this is the most progressive burden on the whole of the Netherlands. In addition, we have a dependence in the mrb and in the addition. Together, they create enormous CO dependency, without any results at European level. Mrs Vos is also asking for an additional incentive for private electric cars, but I can no longer imagine any additional incentive. Again, the danger of overstimulation is lurking here. They are cars on which no bpm is paid and no mrb. Then we are also at a reduced rate on the loading posts. In the absence of any remaining tax, I no longer see any possibilities for discount. It is an accumulation... The VAT, is suggested here! Then we must be at Mr Koffeman's window. Hey, there he is!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u63	I was curious to see the reduced rate for tax on loading posts. I asked in the first place whether the Secretary of State could set a deadline for this. You mentioned a reduced rate for the loading posts, but has that already gone into effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u64	No, that's a commitment I made with the last Tax Plan. I am working to transpose it into legislation in such a way that there will be a reduced energy tax rate at public loading stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u65	Can the Secretary of State put a deadline on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u66	Prince's Day is a logical date. Mr Koffeman says that, according to experts, exporting, which I have just said is more limited than he claims, is very undesirable. I am not an expert because I do not think so. I do not see the loss, as I have just explained. I don't see the environmental impact either. I want to see the environmental and, above all, climate impact globally. We have instruments for this on a European scale, but national climate policy is meaningless. I therefore disagree with these experts. That is precisely what people know that there is no expert here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u67	It has been mentioned a number of times in the debate that these experts are not only talking about climate, but also about particulate matter, soot emissions and noise pollution in cities, for example. In addition to the climate effects, there are many other effects of electric traffic that we are going to miss when all those electric cars go abroad. Those experts have a problem with that. Even now, the Secretary of State is ridiculing the subject again by saying that he is certainly not an expert, because he feels differently. These experts point to other issues, such as soot emissions and noise pollution. The Secretary of State himself said that that is indeed a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u68	That is also a point, but it is not so important that we should put in place a major policy in the fiscal sphere. The plug-in, with its quarter of an electric mileage, does not make such a superior contribution to air quality compared to other cars that we have to devote separate policies to this. I'm really not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u69	I had to check my paperwork to see what was going on with private electric cars. In particular, many electric cars are now being purchased on the business market. There you have the big add-on advantage and there the incentive is great, but the private market is still little on steam because the purchase price for many people is still very high. Wouldn't it make sense to consider a purchase premium, possibly even for electric cars that are soon to be released from the leasing market? They'll be on the private market. Maybe that way we can stop them from going abroad. If we could encourage private individuals with a premium to take over those electric cars, that could be a good contribution to the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u70	There is rather the risk of overstimulation. We have a type of car on which we dropped about all taxes. In the absence of taxes which we can reduce even further, should we really go to pots with incentive premiums? At some point, it'll stop, won't it? What's against cars being bought in business first and private individuals being able to take over? They benefit from the bpm effect. They're taking advantage of the mrb. They benefit from the lower energy rate on the charging poles. What more can you do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u71	The only thing we are seeing at the moment is that very little is being purchased on the private market. The share of these cars that we will have in 2020 will be significantly reduced by your policy. This can be a way to give the private sector a little support to buy an electric car new or to buy second hand from the leasing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u72	Given the difference with the rest of the fleet, for example in addition, but also in mrb, I think the share of pure electric cars will grow enormously. Whether this will also be the case for individuals must be awaited, but I do not see any great incentive to export these things either. For the time being, the second-hand driver is also subject to a zero rate on the MRB. So individuals benefit from this. The broadest question that I have been asked, which fits well into the end, is the question that Mr Koffeman asked at the end of his speech. He longed for an integral perspective and talked about climate policy and agriculture. I think he is doing so in all areas outside this debate. He knows that himself; he also indicated that. For that, we really must go to my colleague on agricultural policy and my colleague on climate policy, who used to be about agricultural policy. I would therefore ask Mr Koffeman not to use me as a messenger boy for his climate policy, but simply to address this to these rulers, perhaps even to start in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u73	It is an existing expression in the catering industry, "my colleague will be with you shortly." That's kind of tricky. I am asking for an integrated approach, and 'you must be with my colleague' is contrary to that. This integrated approach must come from the cabinet. You are a coordinating executive in the field of fiscal measures. May I ask you, in consultation with the colleagues you have just mentioned, to consider such an integrated approach and to inform us by letter? Indeed, the scope of this debate and the absence of your colleagues do not allow you to unfold that integrated approach here. So my question to you is: can I ask you for fiscal measures and an integrated approach? I would never have chosen the word'message boy' myself, but I would have spoken of a 'co-ordinated ruler for an integral cabinet policy'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u74	Another winged expression in the catering industry is: have you reserved; if no, then we have no place. This is so far from the subject we are discussing today that I think it is more appropriate for Mr Koffeman's party to address this directly to those rulers. Otherwise, there is no longer a limit where debates end. Then we can all go after each other with letter requests. If there had been a clear relationship, or was in a grey area, then I'm never too bad to take the message and then I never give a shit about putting my name under that letter and being approachable to it. However, this has nothing to do with this issue anymore. I would really advise Mr Koffeman to allow his party to consider making this a solid point, but in another gremium, at another time and with other rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u75	I got the impression that the Secretary of State was pronounced. I would like to ask him for an opinion on Mr Koffeman's motion. I have heard an implicit opinion in his speech, but I would also like to receive an explicit opinion, if necessary in the form of a winged statement from the catering industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u76	I'm sorry, I didn't pay enough attention to this. That's right. I've lost sight of the motion in the paper mountain for a moment. That's not neat. I apologise and thank Mr Köhler for his memory, because this is not the way it should be. For reasons I have just explained, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u77	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u78	I've come to the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-6.u79	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? I note that this is the case. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the bill and on the motion.
