ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I call Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'm a little despondent here today. Yesterday there were four items in the journal about refugees. The Dutch feel attacked and fear that the cabinet has no control over the matter. I would have liked to ask the Prime Minister today about refugees in Macedonia, who are breaking through a fence in despair. Today I would have liked to ask the Prime Minister a question about the enormous influx of Greek islands over the last two months. I would have liked to ask about care and integration in the Netherlands. However, it is again about figures with a prime minister who magics figures and maintains in the Chamber that the cabinet counts with 58.000 asylum seekers in 2016, while 600 metres away the highest asylum officer states and municipalities says that the cabinet counts with 93.000 asylum seekers. The Netherlands faces a huge challenge: arranging decent care, fast work and fast language learning for many thousands of people. You must at least be honest about the facts and the challenge that awaits us. Over and over again that does not seem to happen, and the Prime Minister is magical with figures and definitions. Since last Princess Day, the opposition has been asking for clarity about asylum projections and about what awaits the Netherlands. We have received clarity, not from the cabinet, but from Nieuwsuur, NRC and Reporter Radio, from journalists who did share the right asylum forecasts with the Chamber. I have only one simple question to the Prime Minister: how does the Prime Minister feel that his magic contributes to the support of Dutch people for the reception and integration of refugees into our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. This year's cabinet assumes an inflow rate of 58,000. That is also the figure in the budget. It is true that we discussed this with the Chamber a few weeks ago on the basis of unchanged policies, this figure will be considerably higher. We are taking a great deal of action at the moment. This week we are going to come to the preparations for the European Council to discuss what we are doing in cooperation with Turkey, what is happening with the NATO mission in the Aegean Sea and what is happening in Greece at the moment. As President of the European Union, the Netherlands is trying to bring what is happening in the Balkans back into a European framework. These are all important things that are needed to contain the flow of asylum seekers from Turkey to Europe. If you do not do so and do not take any measures, then you should indeed consider a much higher influx. Those are the facts. The cabinet budgeted because of all these measures on an inflow of 58.000 p.m. this is similar to that in 2015 because, on the basis of all these measures, we are working hard to limit the inflow. We still think that 58 000 is too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u4	The Prime Minister doesn't go into the heart of the matter. The heart of the matter is this one. The cabinet discusses with the parliament and with the Dutch people scenario A: 58.000 asylum seekers will come. Internally, in relation to the implementation organisations, the COA and the IND, it is about scenario B and the number 93.000 is on paper. What is the leading number for the COA, the IND and for all provinces and municipalities, to whom the cabinet has asked to help with reception and integration? Is that $58,000 or $93,000? This last number is the number that has now come up thanks to the NRC and Reporter Radio. Does the Prime Minister recognise that there has been unrest and confusion among government organisations, precisely because of these magic tricks? Does the Prime Minister recognise that some of these organisations say that they are unable to prepare properly? Does the Prime Minister recognize that mayors say that this is how they find it difficult to gain support within the municipality? We must avoid a repetition of 2015, a repetition of the drag with refugees, of diseases such as currants that suddenly appear and of tensions that flare up locally. In 2015, the cabinet was surprised. I would find it very serious if the cabinet were to be surprised again in 2016, but this time by itself. I also ask the Prime Minister why the COA budget has not been adapted to the internal figures, to the 93 000. In this way, I can only conclude that the Dutch have the right to know exactly what the cabinet expects in terms of asylum influx and that the Dutch can trust that the cabinet will do everything in its power to manage it, but that the Prime Minister of all this seems to do nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u5	I will do it in a slightly different way, but I will come back to the previous answer. If you didn't do anything, you'd be estimated to be over 93,000. That is not acceptable to the cabinet. It would be a disruption of the entire execution. In our opinion, it would not be possible to do so both socially and politically. That is why we are taking a whole series of measures to reduce influx. This now coincides with our European Presidency. I have just mentioned all the means to limit the inflow; I have referred to them as "filters." We're working very hard on that. We are assuming an influx that is about the same as last year, which we consider too high. The realisation of the sites also appears not to be on schedule for the inflow of 58.000. There will still be a terrible amount of work to be done to accommodate such an influx. Of course, you always do that as wise drivers... you ask the implementing organisations to take into account worst case scenarios. Suppose it doesn't work, suppose the influx is higher, how do you avoid dragging people and all kinds of complicated administrative problems that also have humanitarian effects? That's why you always consider scenarios that don't work out. That's wise policy. As far as the cabinet is concerned, all measures are aimed at limiting the influx. I repeat, those figures need to be lowered. Last year's 58 000 was too high and will have to go further down. We will have to succeed in tackling the smugglers of human beings and making agreements with Turkey. I understand that countries are taking all kinds of measures, but we will have to understand what is happening in the Western Balkans in a European framework next Monday and at the summit of 18 and 19 March, midway through this month. The cabinet therefore assumes an influx of up to 58.000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u6	The Prime Minister has not answered any of my questions: not how he reflects on his own role in terms of support, not how he looks at the mayor's unrest and not how he looks at the confusion that exists in implementing organisations. I ask the Prime Minister again how he reflects on his own role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u7	It is my job to ensure that, when forecasts are made for an influx of which I and my cabinet colleagues estimate that it is socially and politically unacceptable, measures are taken to control that influx. We are taking these measures at the moment. At the same time, you always have to ensure that if measures do not have sufficient effect, implementation is ready and takes other numbers into account. Perhaps I can quote from the report of the meeting of 11 February of the National Regietable Increased Asielin Stream, which was referred to yesterday in NRC. The foreign chain has made a forecast of 93.000; this is the multiannual production forecast. The cabinet considers this influx undesirable due to the heavy burden on society and therefore takes measures to limit the influx to a level similar to 2015. So this is where the government's budget is based. For the sake of security, however, the alien chain will always have the opportunity to prepare itself if it is unexpectedly necessary for other numbers. So there's no confusion. It is quite clear what is going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u8	This Prime Minister is not getting anything out of solving the asylum crisis. To cover up that failure, he's always magical with numbers. That's what he's doing now. The PVV asks him to stop doing this and to finally do what is necessary: close the Dutch borders and don't allow any more asylum seekers. Then the asylum influx is zero point zero and then you don't have to magicalize numbers anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u9	A civilized country like the Netherlands will always be willing to offer people fleeing from life-threatening situations a safe escape. We owe that to our stand. A civilised country such as the Netherlands, which is a member of the European Union, will always try to take these measures within a European framework as much as possible. It's not like you're a society that can handle anything. Last year's numbers were simply too high. A further increase is not acceptable. That is why the cabinet is taking many measures to reduce the influx. That is why a lot of conversations are taking place at the moment. That is why it is also important that what is now happening in the Western Balkans, cutting the influx from Turkey via Greece to Western Europe, is applied humanitarianly and that the European framework is properly framed. We're working very hard on that right now. I spoke to my German colleague and the President of the European Council on this matter in detail yesterday. I will have many international talks tomorrow and Thursday in the run-up to the European Council next Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u10	So I don't believe that the cabinet is working hard on that. Nothing at all, because we have just come back from a working visit to Greece and Macedonia. We have seen with our own eyes how terribly dramatic the humanitarian situation there is for people. I want to know from the Prime Minister whether it is true that he has not only misinformed the Chamber about the prognosis for the Netherlands, but that he has also been doing a story here during the debate about, among other things, the relocation of refugees from Greece, where he said: we want to take over people from Greece as the Netherlands, but they are not ready. Is it true that that is also a falsehood? We ourselves have seen that these people are ready to be taken over by the Netherlands, to come to the Netherlands now from Greece, which is flooded with refugees, but that the Dutch Government does not want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u11	As the Netherlands, we are at the forefront of the European relocation programme. We're on top of the list. This also fits with a country like the Netherlands and that fits with our views on decent care for people on the run. At the moment we are talking to Greece again to take over another group of people. That's going to be difficult. The latest state of affairs is that we have received 28 files from the Greeks. We've asked for more. By the way, the Greeks are working very hard to better register people through their systems. The Netherlands contributes to this. I thought Mrs. Gesthuizen went to Chios, too. Then maybe she could see for herself. She may have spoken to the Dutch there. We are working terribly hard to strengthen that registration capacity, but the fact is that it is currently difficult for the Greeks to shape that relocation program. They have a lot on their plate. I don't blame them for that. We'll help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u12	This refugee crisis does not require management but leadership. I am really worried that the Prime Minister is reasoning down the number of refugees coming to the Netherlands. I blame him for that, too. Why am I worried about that? Because you are now giving people in the Netherlands the impression that we are going to keep it to about 58,000 refugees, while the chances are very low that we will actually get to that number. You're organizing your own defeat with this. You'll be showing the Dutch people again: it's uncontrollable what happens to the refugees here, we don't have it under political control. While we only have one job, and that's to make sure we organize it properly. That's why I only have one question for the Prime Minister. Can the Prime Minister justify, per measure of the Cabinet, why he is convinced that we are going to reduce the number to 58,000 refugees a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u13	The 58.000 refugees are too high. I believe that the number of refugees coming to the Netherlands this year should be further reduced. That's what the Cabinet thinks. All measures are aimed at this. I know that Mr Klaver is a member of a party that believes in drawing tables where you can say exactly that there are so many people in each measure. That is not possible for me as a liberal. The compilation of all measures must ensure that the influx from Turkey to Europe is reduced. Then it's mostly about killing the business model of those boat smugglers. They still kill people, for example in the Aegean Sea. I also thought that the parliamentary delegation saw how that works, what happens when those boats arrive, what numbers that goes with and what totally unclear situation that creates. Luckily, they didn't see people die. Leadership, I say to Mr Klaver now that he is using that word, is not to resign to the facts, but to look at the facts and then take measures to ensure that you achieve goals that you want to achieve as a political one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u14	The facts are that we are dealing with a terrible situation in Syria and that more and more refugees are coming in. So what we have to do is prepare for the worst case scenario. If, in fact, there are about 100,000 people coming to the Netherlands, we must do everything we can and now also free up the means to provide shelter in the Netherlands to prepare for the integration of these people. By saying that only 58,000 will come, we will be following the facts again. I ask the Prime Minister if he can indicate by measure how much the number of refugees is going down, precisely because the cabinet is working on drawing tables. It really believes that policies can help to reduce the number of refugees coming to the Netherlands. I dispute that. That's why you have to assume those 100,000 refugees. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: please release sufficient funds in the budget as soon as possible to take account of and be prepared for the arrival of 100,000 refugees. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u15	Mr Klaver actually accepts what is happening now and does not want to oppose it. For two reasons, I disagree with him. The first reason is that this coalition and this cabinet are convinced that it is better to accommodate people in the region and to provide them with a good accommodation close to where they come from, so that they can also return when it stabilizes there. In this case, this is Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan to a large extent, but we are talking mainly about Turkey because of this flow. The second reason is that I believe that we, as politicians, should have a view on the following. In the context that we as a decent society, as a civilized country, will always be open to people who are fleeing, we must also ask ourselves what we can do as a society. That has its limits, even if it is very practical in what our services can handle. Then you have to take measures to achieve that. That is why we are working hard at European level on measures with Turkey. That's going to be difficult. That's not gonna work. It's tough matter. If this were to be solved at once, we would of course have done so long ago. I will continue to do so because I am convinced that structuralally, in the longer term, that is the only way out. At the same time, I want to ensure that this flow of refugees in Europe is properly controlled. This contributes to a further reduction of that stream of refugees. For example, it is very relevant to prevent what is happening from Macedonia to Austria in the Western Balkans from leading to a humanitarian crisis, and to ensure that the measures taken there are in line with European standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u16	I think it is a bit of a sad picture: a Prime Minister who insists on pursuing policies to deal with it while everyone sees that the house around him is crumbling. I also hear the Prime Minister talking here about 58,000 refugees. Has he released the earlier promise in the European Parliament of a substantial decline, which he later completed with "direction zero"? If the reality is that we are going to have 100,000 people, does this VVD Prime Minister take over the policy he has just accused GroenLinks of here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u17	I have raised two issues in the European Parliament and in a performance at Buitenhof. Firstly, the best way to control the influx from Turkey to Greece is to bring people back to Turkey. If that succeeds, we have declared our willingness to bring people from Turkey to Europe. Of course, this is about much lower numbers than the numbers that are coming. In this way, the aim is to destroy the business model of those boat smugglers and to stop the irregular migration flow. If you want to do that when it comes to serious numbers, it is necessary that this irregular flow from Turkey to Greece first goes towards zero. That is to make that specific instrument possible. Fortunately, that is not the only instrument we have, because the fact is that it is not working properly at the moment. We are discussing this with the Turks, as well as the withdrawal of third-country nationals and economic refugees, but it is difficult. We are going to see how far we can get in the next few days towards the European Council on Monday. The second thing I mentioned is the sum total of all the measures we are taking: the 3 billion that we are willing to put in the communities in Turkey to build schools and so on, the NATO mission in the Aegean that I was just talking about, the plan to bring people back to Turkey and then bring much lower numbers of regular people to Europe, the measures in Greece and everything we do in the Western Balkans. The sum of all these filters should ensure that the flow of refugees from Syria via Turkey to Western Europe is controlled. We're working hard on that right now. The summit will be important next Monday. We can see that time is catching up with us, given the events in the Western Balkans which have practically reduced the influx to zero by that route to Western Europe. This is happening in a way that cannot be done this way humanitarianly and in the longer term. That is why this needs to be properly integrated into the European Union. I think that is possible, and we are working on it, inter alia, by putting an end to the principle that you allow people to move from one country to another without having applied for asylum in one country. That so-called way through must stop, and that is one of the issues that we will be discussing in the Council next Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u18	The SGP considers it to be entirely justified that the cabinet should not accept numbers estimated under unchanged policies, and that it should actually try to curb this flow of refugees to Europe, combined with better and decent reception in another place. Support for this commitment, but I do see the point that my fellow Members have mentioned: if that is not the case every time, it raises the suspicion of citizens in our own country. How's the Prime Minister handling that? Does he agree with me that it is not without obligation to put this on the table as a policy commitment and that it requires a great commitment from the cabinet to make it happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u19	I very much agree with that. We are taking action on the European stage. I have just discussed this in detail: Turkey, Greece and the Western Balkans. But we have also discussed in the previous debate that you must report very honestly to people who are coming here that the waiting period for a first asylum application has grown enormously and for family reunification even more. That is the effect of the large numbers we are dealing with. The sum total of all these measures and the talks that we have in the region should lead us to succeed in getting those numbers manageable before they are expected to rise dramatically in the spring. I very much agree with Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u20	The Prime Minister speaks of getting the numbers manageable. It seems a bit that the Prime Minister is satisfied that the flow of refugees through the Balkan route has now stopped. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities has visited it and has seen the distressing situations on the ground, the humanitarian disaster that had already been predicted. Only one country had to close its borders and follow the other countries, and that is exactly what is happening now. The Prime Minister says he sees this humanitarian disaster and the Netherlands has so far absorbed 148 people out of 160,000, released from Greece. What are those numbers? Should the Netherlands not act as President of the European Union and now also assist Greece in bringing people out of this plight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u21	We are in very close contact with my colleague Tsipras and my colleague from Austria. The Foreign Minister has made a trip to Greece and Macedonia. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation visited all the Western Balkan countries very recently. We are very much involved as President and it is essential to achieve a few things. The influx is drying up, but what is now happening in the Western Balkans is, of course, not desirable. It is humanitarian, but it is also unsustainable in the longer term. It is crucial that the Western Balkans play its role. It is an important factor in bringing the flow of refugees to Western Europe under control. We're gonna have to do a few things in the next few days. We must ensure that what is happening there is more European-based. We will work on this at the European Council on Monday. This requires Greece, even more so than it is today, to take responsibility for monitoring its external borders as a Schengen country. That is why, in line with the conclusions of the European Council in mid-February, we must move as quickly as possible away from the situation in which refugees move from one country to another, as the Germans say. That is an extremely undesirable system. People are supposed to apply for asylum in the first country within Schengen where they register, that is how the system works. We'll have to decide on that on Monday. Of course, we must also agree with the Greeks on how we can make the current relocation system that is not functioning properly work. Mr Voordewind is quite right. We want to help them with logistics, as we know, and we already do. We are prepared to do so much more. We are prepared to help humanitarianally, but we also want to put this relocation system in place specifically, because it is a means of bringing these refugees, when Greece is facing more and more refugees, into the rest of Europe in a decent way. This is done in such a way that it is not the refugee who decides where he is going, to Germany, Sweden and so on, but that Europe determines that you go to Lithuania, Latvia, Slovakia or perhaps to Germany. We need to get rid of two things: those people smugglers with their life-threatening boats and the system that the refugee himself decides which country he goes to. I am not sure, but I am moderately optimistic that we will achieve a situation in which it is possible to make important agreements on both points in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u22	Of course, everyone agrees that this is a very difficult problem. The Prime Minister says that the opposition thinks too much in terms of a drawing table, but he actually thinks himself in terms of a drawing table that contains all the measures he has just mentioned. He says to the municipalities that it will be 93.000 and then he says to the House of Representatives: it will be 58.000. The budget includes 58 000 again. After this whole debate with all the political groups, I would really like to hear from the Prime Minister what the municipalities should take into account. Is it $58,000 or $93,000 now? And if it's 93,000, why doesn't it look good in the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u23	58.000 is the maximum number that we take into account. I do think that number is too high; it should be lower. That's what the cabinet thinks, that's what the coalition thinks, and we're working hard on that. I would like to quote once again the discussion with other governments: the cabinet is responsible for the budget of 58 000 and, for the sake of certainty, the foreign chain will have the opportunity to prepare itself for a situation in which the measures do not have the desired effect. Why do we do that? If that were the case, you'd have to take that precaution. After all, it takes time to realize shelters. It must be avoided that there will be immediate shortages if the inflow is higher. Finally, I would add that, unfortunately, it is a fact that we will still have to work terribly hard, not to provide for the undesirable emergency scenario, but to meet the need for enough shelters for 58 000 at all. The latest figures show that the implementation of these reception sites is lagging behind schedule. The number of places is therefore not yet sufficient to cope with an influx of 58.000. A great deal of work will therefore have to be done. That motivates me to ensure that the number of 58 000 is not reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u24	Second question for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u25	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Just for a second. The oral question on this subject began with the question of what the Prime Minister is doing to create acceptance. Then we have received answers that all fall into the category "incantations." The budget states the number of 26,000 refugees for 2016. The Prime Minister is now saying that, if it is unexpectedly disappointing, it is 100,000 people. So what's the Prime Minister gonna do? Then we have four times as many refugees. That is, four times as much housing, four times as many benefits and four times as much education for children. And now it's March 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u26	I shall come back to the discussions that we have just had here and last week in the debate. That makes me repeat myself a little bit, but of course I like to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u27	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u28	I note that we are reserving money for a maximum asylum inflow of 58,000. This is also the achievement of 2015, which is the budgetary point of reference. That is what we are achieving by taking all kinds of measures, in order to avoid the forecasts of 93 000. However, administratively, I think it is wise to ensure that I have just referred to the report of the conversation with the municipalities that municipalities always have the space to look at what would happen if those measures did not have that effect. Why do you do that? You do that because you want to avoid immediate shortages at that moment. Let me say again: at the moment that number would be totally unfeasible. The current efforts and the number of reception places are not even sufficient to cope with an inflow of 58,000, let alone that higher number.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u29	Mrs Keijzer wishes to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u30	The Prime Minister says that 58 000 asylum seekers are budgeted, with all these consequences. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u31	I'm going to go back to the relocation figures the Prime Minister is talking about. He says that relocation is ultimately important in order to relieve Greece. As a committee, we have seen Greece doing its stinking best, but now it is in a swamp when it comes to the border with Macedonia. We have asked if the Netherlands is prepared to record additional files. We also received the answer from the Dutch embassy that this offer from the Netherlands is not there. This offer does not come from other countries, but we cannot do much about it. Although files are ready and people want to be reallocated and even wait for them to arrive in Bulgaria or Romania, the Netherlands does not record these files.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u32	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u33	Surely you can't reconcile that you see relocation as a solution on the one hand, while the Netherlands only allows remote relocation on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u34	First of all, I would like to comment on the point of order. I can reassure Mrs Keijzer that the 2016 budget has earmarked money for a maximum asylum influx of 58 000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mrs Keijzer, I can see you making a move to interrupt again, but I will not allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-2.u36	Secondly, I am responding to Mr Voordewind's point. I agree with him. Especially if Greece were to face increasing numbers through the border closures in the Western Balkans, you would have a few things to do. Relocation is very important. In my opinion it will be quicker, simply because with the logistical help now provided by the Netherlands, among other things, to register people and because of the numbers there, the chances are much greater that it is possible to bring people from Greece to other parts of Europe. This also fits in with the policy of the cabinet and of Europe not to let the asylum seeker decide that he is going to Germany. That's why we need to get rid of people going from one country to another. That is why Greece must take full responsibility as a frontline state within Schengen. This means that it must itself guard the border with Macedonia and monitor the border with Albania. That is why it is so important that we, as Europe, are prepared to provide humanitarian aid and make the relocation programme a success. The Netherlands is at the forefront, as chairman, but also as a country. By the way, the Netherlands does this with other countries. We're really not the only country, but we're definitely in the breakaway.
