ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, especially the Minister of Finance. I give the floor to Mr Ronnes as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the new mortgage directive, the implementation of the Mortgage Credit Directive, or the MCD. This Directive aims to create a more transparent, efficient and competitive European mortgage market. The directive should also provide better protection for consumers. But is it really getting better for consumers, or is European rules in this area leading to more bureaucracy and making the granting of a mortgage more difficult and expensive? The question arises as to whether European legislation is justified in this detail. The CDA believes that we should only regulate matters at European level that the EU Member States should not be able to regulate separately. We are not yet convinced that the legislative proposal is satisfactory in this respect. In a number of areas, the CDA sees a clear improvement for consumers. For example, in case of late payment or forced sale, more consumer protection is ensured, while mortgage providers may only charge the real costs in case of early redemption or transfer. However, the CDA is critical of the directive we are discussing today. We have reservations about both substance and procedure. It will take longer before mortgage interest is fixed. Fast decision-making at rising interest rates is therefore more difficult. Moreover, a valuation report is always mandatory, even in the case of small mortgages, which will increase costs. In addition, the calculation of the annual percentage rate of charge will become one thing, we think, but more on that later. For the CDA, it is important that, before looking at the content, we consider whether European legislation is necessary and whether Dutch legislation is not sufficient. The Directive sets out a number of arguments for the necessity of European legislation. For example, a lack of a single European market reduces competition and choice on the market, while increasing the cost of granting credit. This argument is remarkable, given the news reports that banks, for example, are slowly withdrawing from the mortgage market, or at least for more complex cases, no longer sell the products that should be sold. If a consumer does not meet the standard, then customization is necessary, but that is always expensive for the banks. The margins have become smaller and smaller, so banks have to stop selling certain products. The question is whether even lower margins will not lead to an erosion of competition. We see from practice many examples of people whose situation is not standard, but for whom a change in their mortgage would be very beneficial for the monthly burden and also for the risks to the mortgage provider. However, banks do not even deal with such an application anymore. It's not profitable. It doesn't fit in the checklists. These are, for example, WAO's. The question is whether foreign parties, lenders, credit intermediaries and advisors, with even less knowledge of the Dutch situation, will jump into this gap. Probably not, because only the masses can be earned. So it is not easy for all these people to get a mortgage at all, but it is more difficult. There is another argument used to justify EU legislation. A number of problems have been identified in the EU with regard to irresponsible lending and borrowing and there would be scope for potentially irresponsible behaviour by market participants. The question is whether this also applies to the Netherlands. After all, the ban on the commissioning of goods counteracts irresponsible advice. It is therefore no longer in the interests of the independent consultant to sell a bad product. The loan-to-value measures (LTV measures) already prevent the provision of irresponsiblely high mortgages. This directive is not about LTV, but it is questionable whether the current 100% LTV rule in the Netherlands is also seen by Europe as irresponsible and will not be regulated in the future. Our concern that Europe will prescribe this, too, is reinforced by the Minister's statement that this directive is a step towards the harmonisation that is needed in any case to create a single European mortgage credit market. In other words, with this bill we are not yet there. That is why I ask the Minister what further steps he is going to take towards a single European mortgage credit market. Are we also going to harmonise the rules for LTV or the rules for mortgage interest relief? Why strive for even more harmonisation? Even more European harmonisation in this area almost always means a deterioration of the Dutch mortgage lending practice. This isn't supposed to happen, is it? In general, the question remains whether the specific Dutch mortgage market is suitable for European harmonisation. Let me give you one example. Mortgage advice in the Netherlands includes not only an opinion on the money loan, but also on death, disability and pension under the legislation. The directive should lead to greater competition in the European market. However, the ban on commissioning and the strict requirements in the Financial Supervision Act (Wft) do not make the Dutch situation comparable at European level. This is reflected in the annual percentage rate of charge (APR), which will soon have to be shown to the consumer. In the Netherlands, this will therefore cover more than just the mortgage, and therefore Dutch mortgages seem more expensive in advance, while apples are compared with pears. I now come to a number of substantive issues. I'll start with the delay in the process. The mortgage application process is changing. In the first instance, if a creditor could make a bid with non-binding conditions, an offer is now binding immediately. This means that all the customer's data and documents must be presented immediately and, for example, a valuation must have been carried out. As mentioned earlier, it will take longer before the mortgage interest rate is fixed. Fast decision-making at rising interest rates is therefore more difficult. The Netherlands does not even seem to follow the directive because of this construction. Can the Minister explain this? Does the Minister agree with the CDA that we are putting the horse behind the cart here a little bit? In this way, bureaucracy will increase and costs will increase. Then the point of the valuations. Soon it will no longer be allowed to apply for a mortgage on the basis of the purchase price and to use a model basis. There really must be a valuation report underneath. The valuation must take place prior to the offer by the creditor. The customer must therefore in future incur costs in advance in order to be able to apply for a mortgage offer, without any certainty whether he will receive a quote. It is possible that the mortgage application is rejected and the customer has therefore incurred the valuation costs for nothing. It goes so far that this also applies to small mortgages. Is the Minister prepared to consider the option of incorporating a model valuation within the MCD (Mortgage Credit Directive) guidelines, provided that reliability can be ensured by including the condition that the standards for model valuation are in line with internationally recognised standards? We are considering tabling a motion on this point in the second term. Then I come to the annual percentage rate of charge. The total cost of a mortgage, embedded in an APR, is intended to become clear and well comparable. Advisors already say that this is not going to be the case, because, for example, the costs of the consultant are not always final, for example when working with an hourly rate. It is also completely unclear why the costs for an advisor should be included in the APR. It should be outside of the Dutch situation. The ban on commissioning cut the umbilical cord between advice and the price of the mortgage in the Netherlands, but this law restores it. That seems undesirable, according to the CDA. Does the Minister share that opinion with us? In addition, even after the bank's offer, in which the AKP, including the consultant, will be included, the consultant will still incur costs that are not therefore included in the AKP. However, according to the law, this has to be done. The consultant must therefore indicate how his future costs are calculated. This also means that the consultant will have to disclose his rates to the bank, his competitor. This is actually very strange. The independence of the consultant could be at stake in this way. There's another remarkable thing. The costs for the notary are not included in the APR. The APR is therefore not complete, although this is suggested. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. At the time when the credit intermediary does not pass the costs on to the creditor, and thus those costs are not included in the APR, the consultant loses his right to compensation. That sounds pretty harsh. All in all, with the annual percentage rate of charge something is introduced in the Netherlands, which is already very noticeable at the outset. What does the Minister have to say about this? Then I come to my final point: the procedural element. The time for implementation on 21 March 2016 is actually ridiculously short. There is still much unclear, including for consultants and consumers. Why is there no transitional period? The government says that we must act quickly in the interests of consumer protection. That's a bad argument. After all, consumers are already very well protected in the Netherlands. Is this hasty introduction not in fact conducive to a deteriorating situation in the mortgage market? Has there been an impact assessment of the changes made in full width? If not, why not? This is something that consumers will have to deal with directly. And how does the Minister intend to carry out the implementation carefully in this way? The European standard model to be used, the ESIS, has still been adapted. This was done in consultation with, among other things, the Dutch Association of Banks, but not with, for example, insurers or independent mortgage advisers, while it now appears that there are many comments about this from the insurers and advisors. What signals outside the banks show that insurers and mortgage advisers consider this to be a positive development? What's the Minister's reading of that? We are receiving other signals. And how does the Minister deal with this so that interested players, but certainly also consumers, have been able to give an explicit response? I'll come to a conclusion. I had one more point, but for the sake of time I will not go into it further. Because consultants abroad do not have to meet the same requirements, there is unfair competition with the consultants in the Netherlands. I'll skip that part because of the time. In conclusion, the CDA is not yet convinced of the need for this bill. We challenge the minister to convince us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u3	I'm pleased with the moving insight of the CDA. At last, it once sounds a critical sound towards Brussels. This legislative proposal is a minimum harmonisation. It's just a start. Soon Brussels will have to throw the mortgage interest deduction and the National Mortgage Guarantee overboard and the LTV will be regulated at European level. That is the aim of Europe. Does the CDA finally see that it swims in that trap where it won't come out anymore or does the CDA still go with one step at a time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u4	I can be very clear about that: the CDA is already critical about it. If that legislation is dealt with, we will remain critical of it. You can see that in our contribution in the first term. You're actually confirming that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u5	Then I also hope that the CDA will take action and vote against this bill, with 'Europe' and this Minister resoundingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u6	As we know, the CDA is always in favour of an objective debate on content. Depending on that, we make the final weighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. The aim of this Directive is to establish a well-functioning internal market and a high and equivalent level of consumer protection. That all sounds nice, but you can ask yourself what the usefulness and necessity of this EU regulation is, given that we have already dealt with a great deal in that regard. There will be few people who apply for a mortgage offer abroad for a house in the Netherlands. What does this really do for more competition and more new entrants in the market? The proposal has considerable implications for consumers who apply for a mortgage offer. How will they be informed about the changes? As a result of the debate on 'Europe': as far as we are concerned, this harmonisation certainly does not go any further and 'Europe' will not be about the loan to value or the mortgage interest deduction. Then the length of the mortgage journey and the administrative burden. This bill will make that trajectory even longer. We are already getting a lot of complaints about this. This is also about all the papers to be handed over, not only from consumers, but also from business and intermediaries. We would like it to be simpler and faster. How does the Minister feel about that? If necessary, we would like to table a motion on this subject in the second time. The point the CDA just mentioned is very concrete and can be dealt with very quickly: the model approach to the calculation of the WMD value. We agree with the CDA and with any motion that will be tabled. We really need to consider whether such a model approach is possible in certain cases. I shall now come to the implementation and the date of entry into force of this directive. That's already March 21, 2016. As far as we are concerned, the answers in the further report were not quite clear. For the Directive states that the rules do not apply to credit agreements entered into before 21 March 2016. What does that apply to? Is that the quote date? The signed agreement? That is unclear, especially when it comes to those things that are now in the pipeline and that are moving over that date. Furthermore, business has very limited time to apply the new rules, especially since the standardized document is perceived as quite incomprehensible by a number of people. We must introduce this obligation, but there are still a number of shortcomings, including in terms of language. We therefore ask the Minister whether he is prepared to enter into further consultations with the operators and consumer organisations on this matter. This is precisely something that needs to be clarified. We are getting a lot of complaints about senior citizens who are currently having difficulty getting a mortgage. It is not entirely clear whether this is due to the rules, to the interpretation of the rules or to the application of comply or explain by the banks. We want more room for senior citizens. You sometimes see a World War II value of €350,000 and a mortgage of €75,000, after which the mortgage is still refused. We would like to see more room for the eating mortgages. How does the Minister view that? On this point, too, we are considering tabling a motion in the second term. The Directive provides for the possibility of banning the terms "advisor" and "advisory" for a number of creditors. We're out of line. However, we are concerned about the use of the term "independent advice." If you can only offer one product from one provider, it is questionable whether that can be a truly independent advice. We'd like to get a response from the Minister. Can there be rules for that? Then I would like to say something about the tying and the bundled sale. Mandatory use of a payment account may be a reason not to switch. That is a point that is often raised here. We would like to know whether this is really an obstacle and whether it is included in the investigations that are already under way in this area. For our clarity, it is important to obtain confirmation that we are correct in interpreting the directive and the legislation, namely that tying is only possible if it is necessary for the creditor and the product is free of charge. The question is whether that is correct. Bundled sales are permitted if they lead to different conditions. The question is whether this should lead to more favourable conditions. As far as we are concerned, it would be an undesirable development otherwise. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Mr Ronnes also pointed out that early repayment would be arranged and that the maximum costs that banks would incur could be charged. The question is what these actual costs are and what calculation systems should be applied. How can customers verify that the correct amount is declared? Does this arrangement also apply to full repayment? Mr Ronnes has just lost access to the unequal playing field due to European passports. As far as professional competence is concerned, the same requirements do not apply to all providers in the Netherlands. Some of them have to deal with the strict Dutch professional competence requirements and some with the limited professional competence requirements set out in this Directive. I understand there's nothing we can do about that. It's a general problem. However, we would like to ask the Minister to pay more attention to this in future legislation and regulations. We think that unequal playing field is really undesirable. The bridging credit is also covered by the Directive. It was already covered by the term "hypothecary credit," but it is now also covered by the annual percentage rate of charge. The question is whether this does not lead to disinformation for a bridging loan. Why is that credit not excluded from the annual percentage rate of charge as it has some negative effects? Then the right of withdrawal or the period of reflection. Why does the legislator indicate that the current process of bids can continue under suspensive conditions? We believe that this is contrary to the directive. The Minister has in the note on the report... Now my phone is ringing, that is very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u8	You will have less speaking time as a punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u9	It's Mr. Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Harbers, okay. In reply to questions to the legislative proposal, the Minister states that this would still be possible, but we believe that this would be contrary to the directive. I come to my final point. I'll probably have about three minutes left. If a credit intermediary fails to comply with an obligation to pass the compensation on to the lender, there is a penalty. Then the credit intermediary loses the right to compensation by the customer. The question is why this is now governed by private law and not simply by public law enforcement by the AFM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. The previous speakers also wondered what use and necessity this bill is for the Netherlands. I also wondered whether they had anything better to do in Brussels. Minimum harmonisation of pre-contractual mortgage information How nice do you want it to be so that mortgage offers from different Member States can be compared. It should also increase access to other mortgage providers, but how is unclear. I can now also apply for a quote from a German or a French or a Belgian bank. I don't need this law for that. Then why is this hardly happening? In 1% of cases, according to an impact study carried out by the European Commission, this is done in the Netherlands. 1% of people apply for a mortgage in Germany or Belgium. The Minister replied that this had to do with foreign regulations and other conditions imposed by the foreign bank on the mortgage. In Germany, for example, you have to bring much more of your own money. However, this directive does not change that. It only makes it easier to compare different offers; nothing more and nothing less. The directive therefore hardly changes anything. It's just another document in the already thick mortgage file and intermediaries get a European passport that allows them to intercede across borders. Well, that's about it. Oh, no, the AFM gets one extra member of staff. They're jobs! In addition, providers may pay an additional 14 million in compliance costs. So there is hardly any change, or is this the first step towards greater harmonisation? Soon we will have to sacrifice our mortgage interest on the European altar, as I said by interrupting. The National Mortgage Guarantee is also under pressure and we will soon have to comply with a European LTV and European loan standards. The VVD doesn't want that, but I already predict that you can wait for that. The PVV therefore sees nothing in this European intervention. Brussels wants to create a single sausage by harmonising everything and collecting problems. The Netherlands continues to swim in that trap, until our last remnant of sovereignty is given away to the hollow gies in Brussels. It's fine that a Dutchman can shop across the border for a favourable mortgage, but we don't need Brussels for that. It also seems logical to me that you have to comply with the rules of the lender or of the country in question. I still have a few technical questions, as the Minister of mine is used to. To what extent will Dutch mediators face a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis foreign advisors without a branch in the Netherlands? In the Netherlands there are stricter professional requirements and we have a commission ban, but this is, of course, to a much lesser extent for a Belgian intermediary. If I were an intermediary in the Netherlands, I would therefore move to Belgium and from Belgium to mediate mortgages for Dutch banks. I have nothing to do with the strict professional requirements and the ban on commissioning. How does the Minister guarantee a level playing field between mediators and the same competition protection? How does the BKR test take place with a mortgage application from a foreign bank? After all, that BKR test is mandatory. Does this foreign bank have access to our databases? How can a Dutch bank assess the creditworthiness in another Member State? Does Romania also have a BKR system? I wonder. Can a German take out a mortgage with a Dutch bank with the Dutch LTV standard? That would be beneficial for the Germans. They now have an execution value of 80% and they have to bring a lot of their own money if they want to buy a house, while you get 102% in the Netherlands, as you know. That is many times higher than in Germany. What are the risks for the Netherlands? Do our loan standards, the LTV, the LTI and the Nibud standards also apply to foreign credit applicants? Can a Romanian borrow the same from a Dutch bank for a house in Romania as a Dutchman for a house in the Netherlands, while the risks are not comparable? How does collateral valuation take place in other Member States? In the Netherlands, we have regulated this with self-regulation, but how reliable is this valuation when it comes to a house in Romania? Doesn't this get in the way of fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. My group is a little more positive about this bill than the previous three speakers. I think it is good for the internal market and competition. It leads to more choice, possibly lower prices and, if it is right, better services. This Directive will make it easier for consumers to compare mortgage providers. There are also new requirements for the provision of services. The number of financial services provided to consumers across national borders is still very limited, but this step can help, especially as technological developments and innovation become more and more possible. On the main lines, D66 is therefore positive about this law. I would like to comment on three points: the compulsory valuation, the possibility of offering a bid under conditions and the careful handling of customers in the event of payment problems. But first I would like to outline briefly how the new mortgage credit application process works thanks to this directive. The first step is that all the documents are requested from the consumer, including a valuation report which Mr Ronnes also mentioned. On the basis of those documents, a creditworthiness assessment shall be carried out by the bank or the mortgage provider. In the event of a positive acceptance, an unconditional offer shall be issued which shall be valid for 14 days. The consumer can therefore consider the conclusion of the credit agreement for 14 days. That's the description of the MCD. My first point concerns the compulsory assessment, also in addition to the questions put by Mr Ronnes and Mrs De Vries. An assessment report will always have to be carried out, which is still possible on the basis of a model assessment. In the directive, this model assessment is also an option. Other countries also make use of this. Why didn't the Minister choose this model assessment? People are now forced to incur high costs for a valuation report, without knowing whether they are eligible for a mortgage at all. I agree with Mr Ronnes that this is a point. As soon as he makes a motion on this matter, I will support it. My second point concerns the possibility of offering a bid under conditions. Following the note following the report, there has been a lack of clarity as to whether or not a mortgage provider may offer a bid under suspensive conditions. For example, in the case of suspensive conditions, the offer depends on some creditworthiness tests that only take place afterwards. If this remains possible, consumers will be able to receive a non-binding offer more quickly. The Minister writes in the note following the report that this remains possible, including in the new situation. But isn't that contrary to the directive? The directive, as I have just described, is based on the four steps in which the creditworthiness test must be carried out in advance. It seems precisely that the directive aims to ensure that any offer made by a supplier is directly binding and that only then will the 14 days go before the consumer to see if he accepts the offer. I'd like to remove that ambiguity. The third point is the customer's handling of payment problems. The Directive also introduces new rules on the treatment of consumers who are late in payment on a mortgage. Last year, the AFM concluded in a report that mortgage providers do not handle customers who are in payment difficulties well. For example, customers are not informed of the different interest costs that can be charged. With the new rules in this bill, the AFM will be given more powers to ensure that the providers no longer charge unnecessary costs to the customer. That's a good thing. D66 is, however, curious whether the Minister considers that this offers sufficient opportunities to ensure careful customer treatment. A growing number of Dutch people have problems paying the mortgage. By now, 125,000 people are involved. According to D66, more is needed. In the report I just spoke about, last year the sector itself announced follow-up steps following the AFM's report. I would like to hear from the Minister what has happened since September. What is being done to prevent people from arriving in particular management? For example, will there be agreements on preventive management? The AFM has already indicated that it will in the long term re-examine whether the quality has improved. Is that research going to take place this year or next year? Finally, I am curious about the timetable. I think Mrs De Vries asked the same question. The Directive should be implemented by 21 March at the latest. What are the consequences if that date is not met? What rules then apply in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA, like D66, is in favour of this bill. I would like to put three more points to the Minister. The first concerns mediators and intermediaries. Mr Van Dijck has already spoken about this. It is not quite clear to me, with European supervision and European passports, what to expect from an advisor who is not in the Netherlands. We have had extensive debates in the Chamber, almost too extensive debates, on permanent teaching points, on what I do not know, and on what good advisors in the Netherlands have to meet in order to provide advice to consumers. What demands do you make on them? What does it mean that we allow foreign advisors, under the supervision of a foreign supervisor, to enter the market here? I think that is a fairly precise question, which was also addressed in the written reply. There seems to be a lot of room between the quality requirements that apply in the Netherlands to offer something here as a Dutch consultant and the requirements in all other European countries. I'd like to get another reaction to that. The second point concerns the valuers. This has already been mentioned. The PvdA Group is particularly concerned about the independence and quality of the valuers. A self-regulating register and a disciplinary system have just been launched on 1 January. On the one hand, these things must have a chance, but on the other hand, you can also think: what a real estate we have in this country and what an appreciation we have on different balance sheets of companies; how can this start now, 1 January 2016; that says something about the quality improvement that is still needed there. Does the Minister share that view? How does he see it that this started on January 1st? This will undoubtedly have to be given some time, but how does the Minister put a little pressure on the fact that the improvement in quality is going a little faster than the last 20, 30 years? There are still a lot of balances contaminated with bad real estate mortgages. The third point, which is most important for the PvdA, concerns penalty interest rates. The bill clearly states that penalty interest rates may apply to mortgages. The overclosure of a mortgage debt instrument is increasingly beneficial for consumers, but also for taxpayers because of the lower mortgage interest rate deduction, due to the current low interest rate. So it is good for everyone; we should promote it above all. The penalty rate is limited to the bank's costs and is clearly stated in the proposal. But the big question is, especially for consumers, what the costs of the banks are. What is a reasonable cost estimate? I've seen a few cases come by. It is quite arbitrary how this is done. Does the number of years that have been locked down count? If you've stuck the interest rate for ten years and want to transfer it after five years, do you have to compensate the full interest rate for the remaining five years? Does the bank's risk count? To what extent should the bank's costs be compensated? What are banks allowed to put in that penalty rate? I find that rather unclear when it comes to big money. Fine interest rates run in the thousands of euros and sometimes amount to €10,000, €15,000. I believe that there should be an overall framework for what is reasonable. If you're locking something up, it makes sense to pay for it when you shorten that period, but it has to be related to the bank's costs. That's what this law says. We have also had consumer protection legislation more often. I'll mention the ticket prices and credit card payments. In the latter case, you also have to pay a maximum of the costs. However, €15 is sometimes charged for this, while everyone knows that these are not the costs. As a consumer, go and get a story. This is about big money. How does the AFM view this problem? How can we prevent the penalty interest rates from being too high? How is that maintained? There must also be some tools for the consumer to calculate what a reasonable penalty rate is, so that it is clear when it is unreasonable and when he can go to the AFM or the complaints institute Kifid and know if such a complaint has a chance of success. This third point, as I said, is the most important one. We are now dealing with a directive which should ultimately make it better for consumers to buy the products.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u14	I am glad that Mr Nijboer is also concerned about these ridiculous fines. If we want to take a European look, it would be good if Mr Nijboer would give the Minister a look at how things are arranged in other countries around early repayment and fines. I have tried that a few times, but the Minister will not do so. Belgium, for example, has a system whereby a fine may be imposed for a maximum period of three months. After that, you can just move. We also want this mobility in the Netherlands. It would be a good thing if we were to give this task today: look at how that is done internationally and at European level, so that we are not the best little boy in the class for the banks, but we are for the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u15	How many questions do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u16	Oh, I only have three. In the documents on the same subject, I always read about problems with actual costs, as stated in the directive. However, in the note on the report, the Minister constantly talks about the financial disadvantage that banks suffer in the event of early repayment. That is a world of difference, because the financial disadvantage is the bank's big profit. Does Mr Nijboer agree that it should be no more and no less than the real costs and that they should be transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u17	That's exactly what I asked for. I also agree with Mr Van Dijck that this is not quite clear. I have just put that question to the Minister. If there are so many consumers, there are really thousands and perhaps tens of thousands of them in a year and it is about big money, consumers should simply be able to calculate the costs of the bank and what a reasonable penalty rate is. That is now totally diffuse. Is the profit in there, the transfer premium, what is and what isn't? Is it a financial disadvantage or is it the cost? No, that must be the cost. That is also stated in the present law, and that is also reasonable. I would be in favour of it, but fortunately I am not a mortgage banker that mortgages are also provided in the Netherlands where you are more flexible in doing so. The Belgian model is quite attractive. On the other hand, everyone has to pay for it. Then the balance must be made: you choose a lower interest rate with the chance of a fine or you choose a higher average interest rate because of course it has to be paid. I like the Dutch system that you don't have to pay a fine if you move. That seems reasonable to me, and that is what everyone thinks is reasonable. However, there is also agreement in the Chamber on the need for more competition between banks and for different types of offers for consumers to be placed on the mortgage market. I'm in favour of that. The first-term answers to Mr Van Dijck's satisfaction! I'm pleased to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u18	This brought an end to the first term of the Chamber. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. A little to my surprise there are also quite a lot of detailed questions asked. I'll get through as fast as I can. I would like to make a few preliminary remarks. There are a lot of discussions and disagreements about Europe and European cooperation: how far should we go and are we on the right track at all? In my opinion, there is always a fairly broad consensus on one thing, and that is that, from a Dutch perspective, the internal market has many advantages for the Dutch economy. If you want an internal market and you want to deepen it further in the field of services, you need to consider how to level the playing field: how to put the providers and the seekers in an equal position so that there really is a single market? That is what this directive is monitoring. I say this because some parties have asked the fundamental question "what does this have to do with?'. This is my answer in general terms. This Chamber has often talked about and called for greater competition by many parties, particularly in the mortgage market. Over the past few years, you've seen this market start to run. The interest rate's going down. This is, of course, partly due to the current interest rate climate, but also because there are more providers. We want more providers and we want the Dutch mortgage market not to be dominated by a few large banks. From that point of view, too, this can be helpful. For this reason, the Netherlands is in principle in favour of European regulation on the provision of mortgages. I am trying to put a logical order in the points to be dealt with. A first point is perhaps the entry into force. We're under time pressure. Several Members have asked what will happen if we do not meet the deadline of 21 March. It is clear that we are not going to make it. The actual entry into force will only take place on the day on which the implementation law is placed in the Official Journal. The bill has yet to be sent to the First Chamber and the AMvB is still going to the Council of State, which still has to advise on it. We strive to have the case in the State Gazette by the summer. Are the rules going to apply right away? What happens to the current procedures when the rules come into force? The moment of signing an agreement is, of course, the moment when the new rules must really be applied. But what do you do if you've already started an application procedure and those rules suddenly come into force? Of course, it is not the case that the sector and mortgage providers in the Netherlands do not know what we are preparing here. People know that very well. The various documents, including the AMvB, have already been consulted. We know the form et cetera and we know what steps will be taken. So we can prepare ourselves for that. As has been said, my estimate is that we can finish this by the summer. In the run-up to formal entry into force, the sector can prepare itself for this. In the last few months, as I would advise, we can work under the new procedure as much as possible so that the consumer does not notice it at the date of entry into force. Mrs De Vries asked whether the sector would still have time to get used to it. That's not true. I can't deal with her in that respect. We are actually too late, but when we publish, the rules are immediately in force. Anticipating and making timely preparations are of course very important. What happens to the existing mortgages? Is there a transitional arrangement for that? I thought Mr Ronnes was asking for that. Yeah, there's gonna be a transitional arrangement. In other words, the new rules do not apply to existing mortgages, unless they are the provisions that ensure careful treatment of consumers. Think of repayment or non-payment. Of course, those provisions that focus on consumer protection in current mortgages will apply directly. I also think this is important, because we also want to achieve consumer protection. The new rules will not apply at all only to existing mortgages with which investment exposures have been purchased. This exception is made because these existing mortgages may be difficult to find for providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u20	The Minister states that the entry into force will be by the summer. I see the Minister now making a somewhat questioning face. I think the sector needs clarity. The question is therefore whether the tender date should not be the point at which you need to check when the rules enter into force. Now it is really very unclear for the sector. Is there more clarity about this towards the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u21	I assume that Mrs De Vries means by quote the binding offer. Between the binding offer and the final date on which it must be accepted, that period of two weeks shall apply. The moment of signing is when the rules and the procedure must be followed carefully. Mrs De Vries says that this must be the moment of the offer, so two weeks earlier. The legally binding moment is, of course, the moment when a signature is signed. For that mortgage, the supervisor will also have to ensure that the procedure has been properly followed and the file must contain the different documents required by this Directive. It must therefore be a mortgage that has actually been agreed. The actual signature is an important legal moment to declare it fully applicable. The only way I can solve that is to give the advice to all providers, to make sure that they work as far as possible in the weeks or months ahead, but how much safety margin you want to observe at least in the period before that, so that when those rules come into force around the summer, it is not said: oh wait, we cannot sign today because that form must still be in the file. So we really need to anticipate it. I can't solve that for them any other way. We have also been asked what the present proposal means for Europe's further involvement in our housing market policy and so on, such as mortgage interest subsidies and the LTV. All I can say is that I am listening to the message from the Chamber. The directive states that it will be evaluated in two years' time. It is then up to the Netherlands to send the message: we are not going to lay down any further rules for the mortgage market. On the other hand, there is discussion, which also affects our LTV policy, and that is the side of the banks, the banking balance sheets and the capital requirements associated with them, a discussion that is now taking place in Basel. That's another approach route. As is well known, we are trying to develop understanding in this respect among the banking supervisors of the typical character of the Dutch mortgage market where the number of defaulters is very, very low due to a combination of LTV, LTI and our Calvinist culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u22	From this answer, I conclude that the Minister is actually saying that in two years' time the directive will be evaluated and we will look further. Only, in his letters to the Chamber, he states that this is a first step towards further harmonisation. Then he'll have an image of the follow-up, won't he? Then what comes after this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u23	The Dutch cabinet has no plans for further steps. If the wording has given that impression, then it has not been good. It is a first step, but we have no proposals. We in Brussels will not insist on further harmonisation, let alone on fiscal measures on mortgage standards or other standards we have in our mortgage policy. At the moment, we have not expressed any intention, nor any proposal, nor any wish to go further in this respect. This will be evaluated in two years. Then it will be examined whether it works and whether it contributes to anything. Mr Van Dijck has asked whether it will lead to more foreign parties becoming active. We believe that a number of thresholds are being removed and that consumers can ask for more comparable offers, including from foreign parties that become active in the Netherlands. We'll evaluate whether that's going to happen in two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u24	However, it makes a difference whether the Minister in Brussels is going to press for further harmonisation or whether Brussels itself is going to launch initiatives for further harmonisation. Every year during the European Semester, the Netherlands has been advised to do something about the mortgage interest rate deduction. That's not gonna fall out of the sky. In fact, the cabinet has gone along with it by reducing it slowly, by a percentage or half a percent per year. The same applies to the National Mortgage Guarantee. It's under fire, too. Isn't the NHG a state aid? Brussels also hints that it has to be removed. In other words, Brussels wants to gain more and more control over our housing market in order to implement overall harmonisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u25	I disagree with Mr Van Dijck. The Dutch cabinet has decided to significantly reduce the mortgage interest rate deduction in the coming years. We are gradually doing so for reasons of purely national interest. On the one hand, there are, of course, the huge costs for the budget associated with the leakage of tax payments, but on the other hand, there is the distorting effect of course that the PVV denies that has been there in recent years and which has contributed to the huge blow in the Dutch housing market. The mortgage interest deduction has driven up the price for years. We knew that situation was happening, we saw the bubble come into being. There has been a lot of air in recent years with a big bang. The PVV is looking away from that. That is possible, but it is a national interest to solve these problems in the Netherlands itself. And yes, the European Commission reminds us that the Dutch housing market is still not healthy. I would say: take advantage of it in your election programme, acknowledge once that there are still vulnerabilities there. Or not, that's up to you. However, the European Commission has the task of drawing attention to macroeconomic problems, especially in the euro area. They can hit each other, too. We're in one monetary union. In the case of the national mortgage guarantee, it is of course also important that the benefit of the government's guarantee on mortgages should be for the benefit of the consumer. We ourselves must be careful to ensure that this benefit is there. Then it is not state aid. The Commission, as the competition authority, has the task of ensuring that we do not grant subsidies to the banks, but that it benefits the consumer who might not otherwise be able to obtain a mortgage. I think it is a good thing that the Commission is paying attention to this. I don't have a problem with that at all. If the European Commission did not do so, a competition authority in the Netherlands would pay close attention to this. It's just who's doing the job! However, we do not have NHG to subsidise banks. That's all that's going on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u26	Brussels has a macroeconomic imbalance procedure for a reason. This means that Brussels has only one goal in mind: balance. And "smoothing" is another word for harmonizing. A German who comes to the Netherlands to apply for a mortgage for a house in Germany, gets 102% here because of our LTV while in Germany he gets only 80% of the execution value. There is therefore an imbalance. The next step that Brussels is taking is to say that it cannot be done. Germany and the Netherlands apply not for nothing as a maximum respectively 80% of the execution value and 102%. That's not all for nothing. But that does affect sovereignty. The next step of Brussels will then be a European LTV. This brings Brussels under the motto 'to protect the consumer'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u27	The joke is that Mr Van Dijck asked me in his first term how to guarantee a level playing field. In it is the inconsistency of his argument. If that's the assignment Mr Van Dijck is giving me, then we need to smooth out the LTV. This means that the skills requirements in all European countries must be exactly the same. Then you create a level playing field. It is one of two: whether the PVV Group believes that a German provider should be treated in exactly the same way in the Netherlands as a Dutch provider, or whether it does not think it should be. The position of the PVV Group is now completely unclear to me. A level playing field is a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u28	Finally, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u29	I am not in favour of an imbalance procedure. I don't want to smooth things out. I do not want to compare the Dutch housing market with the German, Belgian or Greek housing market. That's what Europe wants. It wants to smooth things out. In my first term, I spoke about competitiveness and the level playing field. That was about the mediators, the intermediaries. I stand up for the intermediaries who operate in the Netherlands and who have to comply with a mountain of rules, from the commission ban to the bonus ban to the professional requirements, while the same mediator who is just across the border from Brabant and who may be active in the Netherlands may raise fees. That's what this bill stands for. In other words, our mediators are disadvantaged compared to a mediator established in Belgium. I don't want to smooth it out. I simply do not want Europe to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u30	You have made your point clear, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u31	But then Mr Van Dijck must also say that no foreign party should be active on the Dutch mortgage market. That is possible, but next time Mr Van Dijck will ask me again: when are you going to do something about competition in the mortgage market, because that poor consumer pays such high interest rates? He has said here time and again: interest is too high, do something about it. If he says that again, I will say that Mr Van Dijck himself wanted every foreign new provider to be banned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr Van Dijck, you may respond briefly, because the Minister is inciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u33	If a Belgian mediator is active in the Netherlands, I want him to meet the same requirements as any Dutch mediator. Then he has to comply with the Dutch rules and laws, and not with rules imposed by Brussels, which are more favourable for Belgian mediators than for Dutch mediators, since this minister must be the best boy in the class if necessary and build national heads on them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u34	There are no national headlines in this legislation. We do have a high level of consumer protection in the Netherlands. I like to keep that up. What I have just said is not entrapment, Mr President. It is a response to Mr Van Dijck's arguments. It's called a debate. Mr Van Dijck says he wants everyone to have a level playing field. That's fine, but then we'll continue to harmonise. And then he's the first person on the microphone to say, "I don't want to harmonise." There is, however, some inconsistency in his argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u35	I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u36	This will really be your last remark, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u37	I want a level playing field within the Netherlands for everyone who is active here. If a foreign bank settles in the Netherlands, that bank has the same rules of DNB to accept as a Dutch bank. If a Belgian mediator is active here, he has the same professional requirements as a Dutch mediator. That is not the case. I have given an example of this. I am sorry to stand up for the Dutch, for the Dutch business community and for Dutch intermediaries, but I do not think it is right and unacceptable that a Dutch mediator should be disadvantaged by this law in relation to a Belgian mediator. That's what I mean when I say I want a level playing field. This Minister interprets it in such a way that a Dutch mediator has to meet the requirements of Greece, but I do not say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr Van Dijck will also have to realise that maintaining borders in an era where banking services are increasingly taking place via the Internet is extremely complex. That is precisely why we need European minimum requirements, including professional requirements. They're in this bill. The Netherlands is indeed moving on. It has a higher level of competence requirements. However, let us be glad that, at least at European level, minimum professional competence requirements are imposed in other countries, where Dutch consumers can simply go on the Internet. At least that profit is in this bill. I'm here to talk about the appraisals. This Directive requires that valuations are always part of the dossier. A valuation must therefore be carried out. This is already the case with many banks, but not with all banks. The question now is whether this is always necessary. The CDA has talked about this, as has the VVD, D66 and I also thought the Labour Party, although I am not sure. At AMvB, not in the law but in the underlying regulations, we want to regulate the use of model valuations for the valuation of houses. That is what the Chamber is actually asking for. That hasn't been recorded yet. The disadvantage of model appraisals is that a number of model criteria are simply used: the area, the location, the street, amenities nearby. That says very little about the actual, for example technical, quality of the home. Is there a very luxurious kitchen in there or is it completely extinct? That really makes a lot of difference between homes. For this reason, the model valuation has not yet been included. I understand that the Chamber says: do it now but take into account the risks of over-crediting. We should work out when we do and when we don't. We need to define and capture the point of a good assessment and the risk that the consumer will still be at risk. So I'm open to that, if we can work it out properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you for that judgment. The question is, how are you going to work that out? A suggestion may be to use the ozb value, the WOZ value, and to use a certain percentage as the upper limit for the provision of the loan without valuation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u40	Let's not have that debate right now. You don't have to, because once again, we don't settle it in the law. It's gonna be in the AMvB. I hear there's a motion coming up at this point. I can tell you that this motion will be supported. Then we're going to use that motion in hand with the AFM to discuss how best to do this. Does this happen with a certain percentage of the ozb or with a certain LTV standard? As long as the LTV is not higher than x it is allowed modelly; it could be. I shall return to the effect of this in a letter to the Chamber. Of course, I am also waiting for the motion to see what the mandate will be. Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party has asked about the quality of the appraisals. There is now self-regulation. There's a national register for that, with disciplinary rights. This was set up under pressure from the AFM and DNB. There really were problems. There are now clear rules of conduct and profession: objectivity, professionalism, competence, integrity, including disciplinary law. 95% of the Dutch valuers are now registered and there is continuous supervision of the associated association on professional competence and the quality of appraisals. We will continue to monitor whether this self-regulation is sufficient. We have not received any signals at this time from, for example, the Eigen Huis Association that the measures that have now been taken would not be sufficient in advance, or that price formation is not being done properly. With that 95% that's now registered, there's plenty of supply. Mrs De Vries asked questions about the terms "advisory" and "advisor" by creditors. It asks whether further conditions should not be laid down. On the basis of this Directive, Member States may choose to lay down rules, for example to ensure independence. In our opinion, however, we already have sufficient guarantees in Dutch legislation that the advice given is appropriate and that the consultant is independent. In this context, I would like to draw attention, for example, to the ban on commissioning, which has been mentioned by several speakers. The consultant must also indicate whether he has a contractual obligation to mediate only for one or more providers. If he is bound, or is committed to one or more providers, this must be made known, so that his independence is transparent to the customer. In our opinion, we have sufficiently secured this in the Netherlands. That is why we did not see any reason to lay down detailed rules. Mr. Ronnes flew it from another direction. He wondered how the new rules relate to the commission ban. The ban on commissioning is well related to the directive, so we do not need to amend it. The ban on commissioning means that the consumer directly takes the costs of the consultant. He therefore pays those costs not indirectly through his mortgage, but directly to the consultant or mediator. However, these costs must be communicated to the creditor so that the creditor can take them into account in the overall cost picture. The consumer must, of course, be aware that the total cost to be borne includes the costs of the consultant. The fact that he pays those costs directly to his adviser and not to other parties or in monthly payments does not change that. It is a cost which consumers must be aware of and which must be taken into account in the cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u41	With the restraining order, we had just cut the line between the mortgage advisor and the mortgage provider. A link between the mortgage adviser and the mortgage provider is now being established. In my contribution in the first term, I asked whether this is not the re-establishment of a link between the consultant and the mortgage provider, which creates again a dependence. In addition, the fact that the costs are not always clear in advance, because they are sometimes calculated to the customer on an hourly basis, so that they do not know exactly what the costs are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u42	I understand Mr Ronnes' first point, but I do not agree with the latter. The costs should just be transparent. If you're asking for or getting advice, you also need to know what that advice costs you. It cannot be that all kinds of additional costs will be charged later. In the interests of the consumer, this simply cannot be the case. Why do we have a restraining order? Giving advice takes time and money. We do not want the consultant to be compromised in his independence by charging the costs to banks A, B or C. These costs must be borne by the consumer. This is the only way to ensure that the consultant takes the consumer's interests first in independence. That's step one, and it's gonna stay that way. Step two is that the costs are brought together in an integral way and are presented to the consumer. The directive states that the costs of advice, which are, moreover, settled between the consultant and the customer, must also be taken into account. This does not restore the relationship between the mortgage provider and the consultant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u43	I do not share the way the Minister looks at it. The process is made more complex by the additional interaction between the consultant and the bank. The process will be entrusted with additional work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u44	I really don't think so. That's marginal. There must of course be contact between the consultants and the providers. That is inevitable, otherwise the consultant cannot do his job for the customer. The taking of a service, the advice, and the payment of a certain price for it, takes place only between the consultant and the client. The Directive states that the provider must have an integral picture of all costs. In order to give the consumer that full picture, the advisory costs, which have been included here in the other relationship, must be taken into account. That's all it is. I don't think we're putting a heavy burden on the mortgage application. It is good and important for consumers to see the total costs. Mrs De Vries asked a complicated question. I don't know if I understood the question, let alone the answer I have in front of me. The question was why private law and not civil law, I thought. Maybe she can come back to it later. I don't understand the question or the answer, so I'm not gonna try to recite it. We have just discussed the professional requirements of the consultants. Yes, we have, of course, made additional demands in the Netherlands in recent years. You don't just have to participate in a course or be present at a conference. That's really being tested. We now have a diploma system in the Netherlands. Other countries do not know that, but this directive requires minimum professional competence requirements in all countries. It's up to you how to set it up. Diplomacy has not been introduced in Europe. How does it work with foreign providers with a branch and without a branch? Employees of a foreign provider offering mortgage credit from a branch in the Netherlands should be professionally qualified under the same rules as Dutch consultants. They are therefore also subject to a compulsory diploma. Mediators with a European passport or providers from other Member States without a branch in the Netherlands are subject to different rules, namely the professional competence requirements as set up in that other Member State. In that sense, therefore, there is not yet a complete level playing field. Mr Van Dijck is right about that. However, on the basis of this Directive, certain professional competence requirements have to be met. If a foreign provider is operating in the Netherlands from abroad and can be shown to focus on the Dutch market, for example via advertising or a Dutch website, the AFM may require the AFM to assess this further requirements for that provider, a number of minimum professional competence requirements. It may therefore impose more stringent requirements to ensure the professional competence of the supplier on the Dutch market. These are demands that are seen in the knowledge of the Dutch situation, so that one can be shown to be aware of this and offer sufficient quality. That's the nuance that goes with it. Then I come to the procedure of the application, as Mr Koolmees has clearly stated. What happens when? Actually, very briefly, not that much is changing. If you apply for a mortgage, you have to deliver all kinds of documents quite quickly: the employer's statement, the pay slip and you name it. In the Netherlands we now have quite detailed file requirements. Moreover, the requirements of the AFM are sometimes supplemented by the bank, because the duty of care has to be met. The supplier must show that he has carefully assessed everything and has not put the consumer at too high a risk. That's actually happening now. Now there will be a quotation at some point. During the period in which the consumer thinks about the offer, the provider, the bank, is not yet bound. That can still happen now, by the way. There was a bit of confusion in the note following the Chamber's report. It is still possible, but the term "sacrifice" is probably not good. It's kind of a preliminary offer. I'll let the bank do it in that trial. Two things must be ensured in the procedure from now on. The standardised form must be completed so that a consumer can properly compare different bids, and there will be a formal bid at any time. A bank won't be able to go back. That's what he's offering. Then consumers will have two weeks to think about it. In the run-up to this and in the interaction between the bank, the consultant and the customer, a provisional offer can still be made. The word quote is confusing, because in the Netherlands that is actually already a binding offer to which you can say yes or no. However, a provisional offer is still permitted. The moment you make a formal offer, it's binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u45	That is where I think the problem lies in practice, because now it is indeed called a bid and both sides can get rid of it, but of course you have to calculate an interest rate as the offeror. That is, of course, on the basis of market interest rates at that time and the expectation of what will happen in the coming weeks. Isn't "a kind of indicative calculation" a better word? Because with a "sacrifice" you end up in a contract, with a "sacrifice with unbinding conditions" you come into a kind of contract situation to which people have to say yes or no. Do I understand from the Minister's answers that it is the intention of this legislation that you have some kind of indicative calculation, which the consumer has a clue to and he gets an idea of whether or not he is eligible for a mortgage, in combination with the valuation report and on the basis of a model analysis? Is that the lecture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u46	Sure. We're both looking for a term that isn't required in the regulations, but in the relationship between the provider and the mortgage questioner, can there be a moment at which "what was the word?" "An indicative calculation' shall be exchanged. Then the provider says: it could be on the basis of the information we have, the current interest rate and the amount requested, and then you should think about these costs. But the directive requires that there really be a time when there should be an offer. In the Netherlands we would speak of an offer. Then the provider is bound and the customer has two weeks left. For the consumer, it must be absolutely clear what his position is, what the indicative calculation is and what the formal bid is. It is, of course, important that there should be no confusion about this, so that the consumer does not think that he has two weeks and that the supplier can no longer return, but that it suddenly appears to be indicative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u47	It's all part of the legislative history. As far as legislation is concerned, I have the following question. The note following the report said: you may have a contract or offer with debinding terms. If these conditions are subsequently met or not fulfilled, the bank or mortgage provider may make a binding offer. Now the Minister says that this is not entirely correct, but that it is actually some kind of indicative calculation. As soon as the indicative calculation is converted into an offer, the two-week period will apply in which the consumer may reflect on the offer or offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u48	The directive simply regulates what the bank or the provider must comply with, what steps must be taken and what the consumer is entitled to. This is without prejudice to the fact that an indicative calculation may be exchanged in this process, even before the binding offer is made, with the consumer getting an initial idea of what it will mean for him, under what conditions it might be possible et cetera. However, at some point there must be a binding bid. That must be absolutely clear. Prior to that, the European standard form should simply be completed so that the consumer can make a comparison. These are the two important steps that are really being taken here for everyone. In between, it is still possible to be in consultation with each other. Mrs De Vries asked which agreements the directive applies to. The new WFD provisions apply to agreements concluded after the entry into force of the law. That's the signing. Mrs De Vries and Mr Ronnes expressed their concern about the importance of the directive for the duration of the process. As I have said, I believe that the same steps should be taken at the heart of the matter. The information has to come on the table, the bank is going to do a calculation, at some point the consumer gets an offer etc. I don't think things are going to be much different in terms of time. But there are a few formal moments in it now. Data processing must be standardised so that consumers can better compare. The offer will have a formal, binding status with a two-week decision period for the consumer. All things considered, I do not think the procedure will be much longer. She's gonna be structured differently, though. Mr Ronnes asked whether the consumer would have to decide more quickly on the increase in interest rates. No, not faster than now. The 14-day reflection period is important, but that doesn't mean you can't decide faster. Of course you can if you get a good offer that you're satisfied with. Mr Ronnes asked another question about the annual percentage rate of charge. What's that got to do with it? These are the total cost of the credit, expressed as a percentage on an annual basis of the total amount of credit. This total cost refers to all the costs of the credit granted to the consumer, and thus also to advice and mediation, linked to this credit. Notary costs are not included. They see not on the amount of credit, but on the establishment of the security right, the mortgage, and on the purchase and formal fixation of the transfer of the house. Mrs De Vries asked a question about bundled sales. When is this allowed and under what conditions? If a lender makes an offer and offers several financial products or services in a package that is allowed on its own, the creditor may apply more favourable terms or offer discounts. That is not necessary, but the chance of the consumer being triggered and said yes is, of course, greater if there is also an advantage for the consumer. Why else would he commit to many products at once? It can bring benefits to consumers if these conditions are more favourable. There's no reason to make that impossible. That possibility remains. But there can never be a compulsory tying. We have had this in the past in the Netherlands, with all the damage. I call it taking out a life insurance policy, linked to a mortgage or another product. Special is the obligation to open a bank account when entering into a mortgage. That's an exception to the "twin sale." This can only be done if the repayment of the credit and the payment of the interest are secured through that account. Then a bank can demand that. I do not see very well that banks in the Netherlands, given the reliability of our payment system and financial services, are demanding this. However, that possibility is contained in the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u49	How many more questions need to be answered, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u50	I'm guessing there's ten more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u51	I did not pay attention in the first period to the fact that the obligation to open a bank account with the lender is permitted, provided that that bank account is used for interest and redemption. But is there also an obligation to deposit your salary in that bank account?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u52	I don't think so. There's a serious no in the banks in the back. We must not make that demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u53	Is that with the new directive or is it not at the moment? In fact, I think it happens more often that a bank says: your salary must be paid into this payment account because of the direct debit. I'm not sure. I can imagine that if that happens across borders and I suddenly have to transfer my salary to a Greek bank, all kinds of risks will suddenly come around the corner. The Greek banks do not look that good either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u54	In that case, you apparently bought a house in Greece. That's remarkable, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u55	Why? I have a Greek mediator who will not mention any names and who will give me the opportunity to take a mortgage with a Greek bank for a house in the Netherlands. That must be possible under this directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u56	That's kind of hypothetical. The discussion we are having here is that this directive says that there should be no tying. However, an asterisk has been added and the exception is that the bank would say: I would like to give you this mortgage, but I would like you to have a bank account from which you pay the interest and the repayment. I said back there that I do not think this is so relevant in Dutch, as everyone does everything neatly through bank accounts. The number of cash transactions is not that large and the black economy is fortunately very small in the Netherlands. I do not think that provision is so relevant to the Netherlands. However, I will come back to this in detail in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u57	I heard the Minister very well. Bundled sales are permitted, provided there are favourable conditions. As regards tying, the note following the report stated that the product you sell paired must be offered free of charge. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u59	The answer to the first question is yes? In the case of bundled sales, should there be more favourable conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u60	You don't have to. You can use the same terms. However, you have a customer contact at that time and you want to seduce that consumer to do other things as well. But you can never demand it, because then it's tying. But you can offer it at the same time. In conversations where you offer a mortgage, a lot of information is often exchanged: income, pension, disability insurance, etc. It may be that that conversation shows that you are self-employed but do not have disability insurance. Then, of course, the financial service provider can make an offer and say: we also have a very nice product for the following. It is not the case that this should only be done if a discount is added immediately. What is absolutely not allowed is that you say: you only get a mortgage if you also take disability insurance. That's tying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u61	But bundled sales with the same terms and conditions I hardly mention any more bundled sales. In my view, it is now stated in the regulation that there must be different conditions. This could also be worse conditions for consumers. I would like to rule that out and say that in the case of bundled sales, the conditions must always be more favourable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u62	I will come back to this in the second term. In my view, more favourable conditions are not mandatory in themselves. However, one could argue that it would not otherwise be attractive for the consumer to comment on this at such a time. Is there a sanction if the credit intermediary does not pass on his compensation to the creditor? This would result in an incomplete annual percentage rate of charge. This is again about the annual costs we just discussed. The penalty is that the credit intermediary loses his right to compensation. Moreover, this sanction is not new, but it is already applicable to credit intermediaries in consumer credit agreements. We'll go along with that sanction. Mr Nijboer asked about the costs of early repayment. He has drawn attention to this before, as has Mr Van Dijck. At the beginning, there is already an important step. The provider of the credit must then indicate under which conditions and at which costs may be reimbursed in advance, in whole or in part. These costs are unlikely to be precisely defined at that time, but the way in which costs are calculated needs to be clear in advance. So that's at the beginning of the process. The consumer must know how that works. It is then about the method of calculation and the question of what the maximum is. The creditor can make this clear on the basis of examples. The various factors involved in that calculation should be verifiable, including for the supervisor. That is why we have regulated in the AMvB, at least that is what we are going to arrange, that the AFM can lay down rules regarding the calculation of that fee, so that calculations are verifiable. Mr Nijboer's specific question was: should there not be a framework? We are now making this possible in the AMvB, but, in view of Mr Nijboer's request, I will also urge the AFM to make use of this opportunity in the AMvB, so that it provides a hand-out to show what such a calculation should be, what should and should not be included in it and how the consumer should be informed about it at the various stages. As soon as the AFM has taken an initiative, we will inform the Chamber. Mr Van Dijck said in the case of interruption: financial disadvantage can be more than just the real cost; it can also be a profit margin. That's not allowed. Any profit margins that the bank would lose should not be included in this fine. It must really only be about the interest expense, because the bank of course also had to attract financing for mortgages. It must therefore be a possible loss of interest or genuine administrative costs associated with the early repayment. Moreover, the type of costs that may return to this, i.e. not the profit margin, will be specified in the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u63	How much longer do you think you'll need to answer all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u64	You always ask me that, but I cannot say that, Mr President. I just need to answer. You're the first person to touch me if I don't answer the questions to the Chamber, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u65	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u66	I have a very small pile here. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u67	I'll be brief. Of course, 'Rent-a-deel', 'financial disadvantage' and 'actual cost' are all diffuse concepts. The Minister talks about "interest disadvantage," but in that interest there is a profit premium. The question is: can the bank pass on the agreed interest it misses for the remaining maturity or is it the interest excluding the bank's profit premium and risk premium?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u68	I'm trying to buy time, too. I have just answered this question. I said no profit margin, just the real interest expense. I have promised Mr Nijboer that the AFM, on the basis of its powers in the AMvB, will further develop and specify that from the point of view of consumer protection, so that the providers know what may and may not be in the penalty rate and, again, that is not the profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u69	The interest rate used by the Minister is then the interest rate excluding the profit and the risk premium. Therefore, this is not the interest rate agreed with the borrower, but the interest rate excluding profit premium and risk premium. So it's about the cost interest rate that's been stripped off?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u70	You want to speed up, Mr President, but Mr Van Dijck has now asked that question three times. The AFM will work it out further. We create that power in the AMvB. I have promised Mr Nijboer that I will specifically ask the AFM to use this power and to develop it. I'll inform the Chamber about that. I do not think it would be wise to go into this in more detail at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u71	I have two questions, but I'd like to ask one first. The penalty rate applies to the transfer of low interest rates, but also to early repayment, for example. Does this calculation apply to both situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u72	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u73	That's important. What also helps is if it becomes a bit unambiguous for consumers. Anyone can want to redeem or transfer more at any time. We have a uniform pension statement, but that might be a little too much to ask. However, it does help if consumers can see at a glance what the costs are with mortgage providers. My second question is therefore whether the Minister would like to contribute to the AFM's being somewhat forced to do so. A mortgage is already pretty complicated with ten years, seven years, redemption, and this and that. You'll be lost soon enough. But it's important, what it's about big money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u74	Yes. The AFM may lay down detailed rules regarding the method of calculating the fee, the fine. But the AFM can also provide a framework for informing consumers. This should not happen until the consumer says: I want to pay off, what will it cost me? The consumer must be given the best possible understanding of this at the moment he enters into the mortgage. The AFM can help to standardize this. What does it mean if I take this mortgage and I want to pay off something early in five years, and what does it mean if I take another mortgage? This must be done in a similar way. Therefore, the suggestion that the AFM should provide a framework for this is very important. In my view, however, this is also a matter of informing the consumer. Then I'll get to the last of these and that. Mr Koolmees asked about the late payments. The AFM has investigated the way banks deal with late payments. A cabinet response was given to this last year. The AFM has then drawn up improvement plans with individual banks, monitor the implementation of these improvement plans and, if necessary, adjust them. In the event of insufficient progress, the AFM will again conduct a wide-ranging investigation, but now it is steering on the implementation of the agreements made. In my view, this is also the most practical way forward. Mrs De Vries asked why the bridging credit is not excluded from the annual cost calculation. The bridging credit is already covered by the current rules, and that will not change in the future. Furthermore, a bridging loan is simply a temporary mortgage with costs attached. These costs should also be reflected in the annual percentage rate of charge calculation. It is temporary; that must also be clear. Mr Van Dijck asked about the Credit Registration Office and whether foreign banks would also be able to access the databases. That wording gives much indication of the way in which Mr Van Dijck looks at everything that comes from abroad. Foreign banks registered as credit providers in the Netherlands do indeed have access to the BKR. They can therefore include that information in the assessment of the mortgage application. Moreover, this is not only in their interests, but also in the interests of consumers in order to avoid over-crediting. I believe that Mrs De Vries has asked a question about the design of the form, the standardised information form. That was consulted; it was part of the AMvB that went into consultation. It is true that the NVB was the only one to respond to this. The NVB has made suggestions for simplifying some forms within the possibilities that exist because it is fairly standard prescribed.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Wherever we thought that was possible and useful, we have done so. It is therefore true that some adjustments have been made after the consultation. By the way, this was done in collaboration with the AFM and the NVB. The AFM has checked whether what was proposed was really in the interest of the consumer. It was. Mrs De Vries' suggestion was that others in the sector would be unhappy with it again. We really don't know that. It helps terribly, as I say to other interest groups, when they report to us when they are unhappy with things that happen in a consultation process. If they do not report to the Chamber, we have lost time. In our view, it is really just a few simplifications of wording so that they can be better understood. One can always report to us, because we are still in the final phase of the AMvB. If there were really big things going wrong, one can come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u75	Very briefly, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u76	I would like to say a few words about the access of foreign banks to the BKR system. The Minister quickly stepped over it by saying that foreign banks registered in the Netherlands as providers of credit may have access to it. However, I am talking about foreign banks that are not registered in the Netherlands as providers of credit. Can that Greek bank I was just talking about give me a mortgage for a house in the Netherlands also look into the BKR system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u77	I can improvise now, but I'll get back to you in second term. I'm sure it's not, but let me check it out just in case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u78	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u79	No, Mr Van Dijck. It's coming back to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u80	If I may ask this question, I do not need a second-term contribution. I have a follow-up question about the same Greek bank. Can that bank offer me a mortgage for that house in the Netherlands with an NHG?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u81	We will work out the case of the Greek bank in the second term. Mr Van Dijck asked whether a German for his house in Germany could take out a mortgage in the Netherlands with Dutch LTV standards. Mortgages that are closed in the Netherlands must comply with the Dutch rules. This also applies, for example, to the LTV rules. Providers can always impose stricter requirements. So yes, there is that possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u82	I'm looking around to see if there's a need for a second term. Mr Van Dijck does not need it, but the other speakers do. We'll be very brief, I understand. I'll hold you to that. I call Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr. Chairman. It is good to have had this debate. Although the bill was initially presented as a hammer piece, useful elements were discussed in this debate. The Minister began by saying that there are many differences of opinion about Europe's level of interference with the introduction of new regulations. The internal market is, of course, a goal for which you want to create as few blockages as possible; that is what the CDA has always been in favour of. You have to look closely at what level you want to put everything on a level playing field. You have to make sure that it does not go too far, causing damage to Dutch customs and procedures or turning our own order upside down. The European Commission indicates that there is a real need for more than what is now in the pipeline. There's a bit of a scare there, too. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Mortgage Directive is a step towards European harmonisation of the mortgage credit market;]] [[Whereas the Dutch mortgage market has specific characteristics, such as the loan to value, the mortgage interest rate deduction, but also the high payment morale and low default rate;]] [[Whereas it would be undesirable for harmonisation to lead to the loss of specific Dutch elements of the mortgage market;]] [[calls on the Government to be very cautious with further harmonisation proposals of the market and mortgage credit rules, while respecting and maintaining the specific characteristics of the Dutch market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34292-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u84	I have a question about the operative part of the motion: 'calls on the government to be very cautious'. What kind of wording is that? Holding back? Or you can close the door and say: "calls on the government not to go along with further harmonisation." Or you choose "resisting," that is, one step at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u85	We ask the government to be cautious, but to ensure that the Dutch characteristics can continue to exist. The operative part of the motion is thus intended. My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Mortgage Directive allows for the determination of the housing value in other ways than an expensive valuation, especially in the case of mortgage credit where there is evidently less risk that the mortgage amount does not match the value of the property;]] [[Whereas it can save consumers time and money if this option can be used;]] [[calls on the Government to regulate, by General Measure of Management, the possibility of modeling the housing value or the use of the purchase price in case of less risky mortgages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34292-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u86	Finally, I would like to point out that the CDA Group will support a motion by Mr De Vries on the elderly and mortgage lending.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mr. Chairman. There have been a few small questions left from the first term. I start with the question of how consumers are informed about all the changes that are being made. The Minister would also come back in second place to the bundled sales and tying, because a number of issues were still unclear on this point. I understand that if you take a bridging loan, you'll also take an ordinary mortgage and in both cases the full transaction costs and additional costs will have to be taken into account in the annual percentage rate of charge. Perhaps the Minister could clarify this? The question about private and public law was not entirely clear to the Minister. That question concerns the credit intermediaries. The Minister said that this is already the case in the case of consumer lending. Then it's still the question why you wouldn't settle this through public law enforcement. Mr Ronnes has already spoken about the motion on the valuation. As a follow-up, I would like to table a motion on behalf of the VVD Group on the length of the mortgage journey and all administrative burdens. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas consumers have been given a longer path through the Mortgage Directive if they apply for a mortgage, while the current process of transition is long;]] [[Whereas administrative obligations have increased significantly in recent years around the mortgage path;]] [[calls on the Minister to examine, together with mortgage providers and consumer organisations, how to shorten the flow and reduce the administrative burden on the parties concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34292-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u88	Mr Ronnes has already announced that I would table a motion on senior citizens. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is often more difficult for senior citizens to take out a mortgage;]] [[Whereas there is uncertainty as to whether this is due to current laws and regulations, uncertainty as to their interpretation or the willingness of the mortgage provider to apply "comply and explain';]] [[invites the Minister, in consultation with the mortgage providers, to examine the possibility of providing more space for the granting of a mortgage to senior citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34292-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u89	I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to early repayment. It is very important that consumers understand how this calculation is made and that there is clarity about that calculation. Now there are a lot of consumer questions about what they are actually paying, what they are paying for and whether they are paying too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the clear answer. A legislative proposal that makes the internal market work better, which is good for competition and consumer protection and restricts the interest rates on fines; I do not understand why Mr Van Dijck of the PVV is so opposed to this. Maybe he can explain that himself later. I would also like to thank the Minister for his answer to the procedural question. It is important to clarify the indicative calculation. For this, it is also very important that a model assessment is made possible. So I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitment to look at this together with the AFM in the AMvB. It is a good thing that mortgage providers are given the assurance that they can offer the consumer an offer. I will be supporting Mr Ronnes' motion because I would like to see the model effect enshrined in Dutch legislation. That's gonna be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have endeavoured to draw up a number of motions, which I find sympathetic in themselves. It looks like they have broad support. I had myself tabled a motion on the penalty interest rates, but I am not going to file it because the Minister has made a commitment. I think it is a great and important point for consumers, which may not be fully interested in dealing with this law. A lot of people are closing their mortgage, a lot of people have been paying off early and a lot of people have paid penance rates, but everyone was actually guessing the answer to the question where the penalty rate actually came from. It is quite a big step that the Minister has now promised that the AFM will establish a framework that will make it clear what the penalty rate is. Partly because of Mr Van Dijck's questions, it is quite clear that it should only be about costs and not about profits for the bank that need to be compensated. I'm glad this is going to happen. I would like to look forward to it as soon as possible, because it will really help the consumer to benefit from the low interest rate. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Overigens hebben wij daar macro-economisch gezien op een aantal punten best last van, maar op het gebied van de woonlasten kunnen mensen echt behoorlijk profiteren van lagere rentes.]] Needless to say, high fines should not be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry it took a little more time. Of course, quite a lot of questions have been asked in first and second terms. So it is good that the debate has taken place. First of all, I'm going to pass on the outstanding questions. The question is what happens under public or private law if a mediator does not pass on the costs of the advice. We are following the procedure that also applies to the Consumer Credit Directive. This means that the penalty is that the mediator may no longer charge his costs to the client. We did not think it would be useful to introduce a fine clause which the AFM would then have to maintain. No one else gets along with that either. Of course, it is attractive for the consumer to say that if the mediator did not cooperate and did not send his account to the credit provider in a copy, then I will not pay that bill, because that frustrates the mandatory process that we have to go through. That is why it is governed by private law in accordance with the Consumer Credit Directive. Mrs De Vries asked how the consumer was informed. That must be done primarily through the provider. This should clarify how an application procedure is conducted, what steps should be taken, what information should be provided, when an indicative calculation is made and the mandatory binding offer is made, etc. The AFM will also pay attention to this in its communication policy, so that consumers can be informed, for example, through the AFM website. Mr Van Dijck asked whether the foreign provider could use the BKR. Providers with a European passport operating in the Netherlands must comply with the Dutch Code of Conduct, including the creditworthiness test of which the BKR assessment is part. So these providers with a European passport will then have access to the BKR. Mr Van Dijck always tends to bring about further deepening, complexity or complexity during a debate, often involving the Greeks. Of course, we all want to answer those questions. His follow-up question was whether the Greek bank could make use of the mortgage guarantee. As I said, the NHG is not there for banks, nor is it there to help, subsidise or make them more attractive. That mortgage guarantee is there for the customer. It's about the Dutch customer. He can apply for an NHG. Whether he gets that mortgage from a Greek or a Dutch bank, the NHG sees the client. Moreover, banks must be affiliated to the NHG in order to allow a customer to participate. A Greek bank can therefore join the NHG. That is, of course, permitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u93	The NHG does indeed belong to the customer, but for a bank such a guarantee does of course provide a certain guarantee, in the sense that it does not run a risk with a Dutchman, because if it falls in default for any reason, the NHG is ready. I think that many Dutch people at a German bank or a bank from another country are more likely to receive a mortgage because of that NHG.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u94	But that is completely independent of whether it is a German bank, a French bank, a Dutch bank or a Greek bank. The NHG assesses the client. If the mortgage meets certain income requirements and so on, the client can get the guarantee, which then translates into a more attractive percentage because of the more limited risk. The client does not then assess whether a bank is from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr Van Dijck, you have not contributed to a second term, but this is really longer than a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u96	So that translation to a more attractive percentage is not necessary, because if I go to a German bank, I have a more attractive percentage anyway. Our NHG system simply gives the German bank more security to give someone in the Netherlands a mortgage. The question is: how sustainable is our NHG system in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr Van Dijck is making a really big mistake. I am very surprised that he is now challenging the NHG, a very attractive product for Dutch clients. I thought he stood up for the Dutchman. Well, he's not here to do that. The NHG is for Dutch consumers and offers them additional support, which can reduce the cost of the mortgage for this category. It is also conceivable that a German bank will then offer the mortgage. By the way, somewhere in his thesis was still involved that German banks are already cheaper anyway. I don't know. There are differences in interest rates in different mortgage markets in Europe. That will continue to be the case in the coming years. I would not like to get too many firm opinions on this. Mrs De Vries spoke about the bundled sales. She asked: must this always be done under different conditions? What are other conditions, which will be more favourable? You don't have to. Several products may also be offered at the same time. Well, there could be benefits to that. This may be in one product and it may also be in the other product, but the consumer must always keep the freedom to take the package, reject it or take some of it, possibly with the advantages offered. It's not like a bank can only offer multiple products if it puts an extra advantage in it. That's not a requirement. That would be weird, too. At the same time, if the bank wants a customer to close a number of products at the same time, he will probably see how to make that attractive to that customer. The key point is that consumers should be free to do so. This debate has also given me a provision. We now arrange for there to be one exception to the tying ban, namely that a bank may demand that you open a bank account with the same bank. I, too, have been wondering during this debate why we are actually dealing with this. I just checked if this is a Member State option. So I checked to see if we couldn't do that either. It is a Member State option. If the Chamber supports me in this, I would like to send a very small letter of amendment to the Chamber this weekend, in which we simply take out this exception to the ban on tying. Everyone in the Netherlands has a bank account. You could say that whoever's offering a mortgage is demanding that you have a bank account. That seems to me to be a rather empty letter in the Netherlands, because everyone in the Netherlands has a bank account, but that would still have a substantive logic. Why should the bank be able to demand that you have that bank account at the same bank? I understand that the bank finds that obligation attractive, but I really see no reason to do so. So I would like to thank those who have asked questions about this. Unless Members all jump up now and say that we must keep it as it is now, I am going to submit a letter of amendment on this point to the Chamber. We're gonna do that real fast. With your permission, that letter of amendment will not pass the Council of State. It's really about a little change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u98	Look out!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u99	That is why I say it explicitly. I have often sent a letter of amendment to the Chamber and then received all kinds of accusations that it was all malicious. In short, with your well-being, I'm not sending it past the Council of State. Then we adapt this and the tying becomes completely impossible, even at this point. I'm ready for the motions. In the motion in part No. 7 the government is invited to be very reluctant to further harmonization proposals. I can get out of here with that. As has been said, the Dutch Government has no proposals and ambitions to take further steps at this time. We will therefore be very reluctant. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I would point out, however, that if I am asked at some point 'where are the foreign suppliers, where is the level playing field', I will reply that the Chamber has told me to be reluctant to harmonise. I shall then confront the Chamber in another debate. I am told: do not take any further steps towards a level playing field. Okay, I'll take note of that. I see that Mr Koolmees is not getting excited about that, but I can get out of it right now. I leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the second motion, the government is asked to allow model support of the housing value per AMvB in the case of less risky mortgages. We're gonna do that. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House. I think this is a sensible motion. The third motion calls on the government to consider how to buy-in the passage and reduce the administrative burden on the parties concerned. In three years' time, this directive and all new provisions will be evaluated by Europe. Would Mrs De Vries be okay with us doing the same thing in the Netherlands in the third year? In the Netherlands we still have our own demands, et cetera. I'll recognize it. I also hear it from the sector: we have to collect so many documents and the file is so thick; could it be simpler and faster? However, we are now going to introduce this. If I were to do an evaluation now, I'd be getting an outcome that's not up-to-date. We are not going to introduce this until the second half of the year. I'd like to take a little more time to put the thermometer in for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u100	I have a bit of a problem with this because it is not just about the specific consequences of this law. There were also many complaints about the lead time of the mortgage paths and about the obligations associated with them. So I would really like to see it broader than just the effects of the mortgages directive. Then I'd just find way too late for three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u101	I understand that Mrs De Vries does not just want an evaluation of this directive. That's not my proposal either. However, this directive is going to change the whole procedure and all the steps in it. Could we meet each other by saying that one year after the implementation of this directive, we will have the overall weight of the procedure evaluated? Moreover, we are simply doing this together with the sector and the consumer organisations, so that we have different interests than consumer organisations in the banking sector. Would a year after the entry into force of these provisions be a road? In that case, I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. In the fourth motion, the government is asked to examine, in consultation with the mortgage providers, whether more room can be given to give a mortgage to senior citizens. I'm still in the phase of getting on with the problem. The question now is: what is the problem? I'm not saying it doesn't happen, but I want it to be sharper: where, when, under what circumstances? Mrs De Vries will say that it is precisely this research that is needed. Let's agree to see who can do that. Maybe the sector can do that itself or the AFM. I just don't have the problem yet. Mrs De Vries may have that. In that case, she might be able to feed us on some casusism so that we get a focus on what's the problem now. Then we can figure out how to do that. If we can do it in such an iterative manner, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u102	That concludes this debate. The Minister announced a letter of amendment. Depending on the arrival of that letter of amendment, we will determine when the legislative proposal will be voted on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u103	I'm not meeting the deadline for implementation. That's my fault. I am going to try very hard to ensure that the Chamber can vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you.
