ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group. She can open the ball.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are looking at the 2017 budget, but we are also taking stock of six years of Schippers on VWS. We have the best healthcare system in Europe, says Minister Schippers, thanks to health insurers who would selectively buy at quality and price. You're a bum if you don't want to see that, say careboys and consultants. But are they right too? We asked the nurses at the hospital. They stand like no other with their feet in the clay. Many nurses from all over the country responded to our survey. Over 1,100 nurses completed the survey. This gives you a good idea of what lives in this profession. They tell the reality, which shows that financial considerations threaten the quality of care, that patients do not always receive the care they need, that patients have to make room for new patients as soon as possible, and that there is increasing flexibility through the use of pointed beds and flex workers. It is significant that only 1% of the nurses who participated in our survey assess the influence of health insurers as positive. It is also striking that only 3% see savings in care and the decentralisation of care to municipalities as progress. Three quarters of the nurses who notice anything about the changes, they assess it negatively. This inevitably raises the question of whether we are on the right track. This survey gives a meaningful insight into the kitchen of hospitals. It is worrying that half of the participating nurses experience a deterioration in working conditions due to the increase in bureaucracy and too few colleagues. It is also worrying that none of the participants who have been working in the hospital for more than ten years indicate that the work has become more fun since the introduction of market forces. It is up to policy makers, directors, but also health insurers to take serious account of the people on the bed. The gap between the image presented by them and the reality of under-employment must be eliminated. I'd like to offer the Minister our report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u3	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. We also see a gap between, on the one hand, too little time for quality at bed and, on the other hand, the growing number of managers in hospitals. Panteia explained to us how the number of managers in a hospital has developed since market forces. We're seeing an explosion of people working on management and ICT, 56%. That amounts to 290 million a year, in salaries alone. More for the top, less for the base. This is also an example given by health insurers to the healthcare sector. The signal is: play mostly to commercial departments and the switching circus, but squeeze out the speaking room. Research among 5,200 physiotherapists by Motivaction last week showed that 70% of the physiotherapists are dissatisfied or very dissatisfied with the contracts on the basis of which the health insurance companies buy care. The same percentage indicates that health insurers do not want to negotiate and that they do not respond to objections. On top of that, the physiotherapists do not get enough budget for the treatment, according to 91%. However, we do see that in 2015 healthcare insurers will transfer 252 million expenses, more acquisition, payment of comparison site and payment of intermediaries. However, we still do not know the total cost of the switching circus, because the NZa does not list the costs of commercial departments. Half work again. Don't we want to know? Does the Minister recognise that commercial departments exist only in the face of competition and that with 9 holding companies, 25 health insurance companies and 61 policies, we can assume, hundreds of millions are involved? How many years of money do we throw in the ditch now: 500 million? An expensive system and as opaque as it can be. The promise was that it would produce transparency, but we hear from the Minister that she wants to enforce transparency. Apparently, the government is needed for what the market doesn't offer. We know that the cost per patient increases. At least that is what the Minister says in response to questions we are asking about this. However, it was not analysed, not investigated. I think that's crazy. We have many researchers in this country looking at the affordability of care, but those researchers...What would come out of a study by a special professor of affordability care who is on the one hand a consultant of the Ministry and on the other a chair funded by the Ministry? What would a special professor of organisation and funding of the healthcare sector say about the healthcare system, a professor who on the one hand is director of the Dutch Healthcare Authority and, on the other hand, holds a chair paid by that Dutch Healthcare Authority? What will two collaborative research groups, Talma and Celsus, academy for affordable care, investigate if they are paid by the Ministry of VWS and the health insurance companies? Will they also look at alternatives to market forces, for health insurance companies? I don't think so. How much money does the Ministry spend on research programmes like this? How many health insurance companies spend on it? Does the Minister consider it desirable that taxes and contributions should be paid for research into a healthcare system with the aim of maintaining the care system, while a majority of the population rejects that care system? I have a bad feeling about this. In each hospital there is on average one intake a day because of the side effects of medicines. This message will be sent to people this week by the College for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products and the Lareb Adverse Reaction Centre. They call in people to report side effects. We want to know how often side effects occur on another pill because it has to be done by the health insurance provider. In other words, how often do people with drug poisoning, a delirium, come to the hospital because a few cents were saved on the medicines to be reimbursed? How much does that save in the end? Yesterday it became clear that there is a new link to the dismantling of the package. Heavy paracetamol, minerals and vitamins are allowed out of the package, says the Zorginstituut Nederland. It would bring in 220 million. If heavy paracetamol is to be paid by rheumatic patients themselves, it costs six tens. You can say, "What are you talking about?', But there will be additional costs for minerals and vitamins. Then you'll soon be talking about €200 extra: another blow for patients who have already noticed that everything has been taken out of the package and they have to pay extra for medicines and that physiotherapy no longer get paid. Is the Minister prepared not to follow this advice? Relatively cheap and effective medicines are now threatening to disappear from the package, but what exactly is the Minister doing against the pharmaceutical industry, which shamelessly enriches itself over the backs of patients and contributors, who visits with a whole army of doctors to get them to prescribe expensive, dangerous and less effective medicines? Where is the tightening up of the Medicines Awards Act? Why doesn't the Minister put an end to these many individual doctors' visits? Why doesn't the Minister make its price negotiations public in the case of expensive medicines? She is going to look in Europe to see how we can make a fist against the pharmaceutical industry, but is she also prepared to question the duration of patents there? Wouldn't it be a good idea to give medicines that have largely been developed at our universities and which are bought up if they have potential, a much shorter patent, or perhaps no patent? Hospitals regularly record 65-plussers without a medical reason. They do this because there is insufficient care in the elderly's home. Older people also go to emergency services which are not medically appropriate. The emergency rooms function as an emergency shelter. This is demonstrated by research carried out by the NIS. The hospital serves as emergency care because elderly people have to stay at home because the care home is no longer accessible. How much does it cost to shut down nursing homes? General practitioners notice every day that people don't pick up their medications and don't follow references. But in the review of the Health Insurance Act, the Minister does not want Professor Buyse to investigate accessibility. She does not want to know how accessibility is developing in the current system. At the same time, she creates a choir of men who know only one tune: market forces are good. In her ideological blindness, the minister fights a rearguard battle. The momentum of market forces is over. It is time for care without market forces. It is time for a national care fund that distributes 46 billion in premium payments to regions where caregivers, patients and local administrators plan care in conjunction and co-operation. There will be no profit-making. There will be no incentive to treat because more is being earned. There won't be any more of your own risk. 204,000 people have already supported this initiative. This will only grow. And do you know why? Because people have tobacco from consultants in the care that advise on maximum declaration. They're tired of a consultant doing expensive research into how to roast smartly in a nursing home. Just let carers do their job. Just give people in the nursing home enough coworkers. Make sure that money for care doesn't go to overhead, advertising, bureaucracy and the consultant industry. Is the Minister prepared to do this? After six years of Schippers, solidarity has been eroded. The complexity of our healthcare system is huge. Caregivers die in the papers and get extinct. The Minister is now begging the health insurance companies to use the reserves for a lower premium. At the same time, she is okay with winning in 2018. It's totally insane. Is only this minister responsible for the erosion of our health care? No, we also have a Secretary of State of the PvdA House responsible for the degradation of care for vulnerable youth, chronically ill, elderly and people with disabilities. I received the following email yesterday. "To fall directly into the house with the door: my mother is 97.5 years old. She has serious physical problems. She's almost blind and almost deaf. She has COPD, heart failure, severe osteoarthritis, and she stumbles behind her rollator. A intestine has been partially removed and a lung has been partially removed. Nevertheless, she is not eligible for the Long-Term Care Act. The health insurance company says she should be eligible. But the indicator center has already made two negative decisions, because my mother is still cognitively okay. It is not eligible for a nursing home." People of nearly 100, who are in trouble at home, are too good for the nursing home. What kind of country is this? What if she falls? Where do you want her to go? Does she have to go to emergency care in the hospital and then not be able to leave because no care can be provided at home? The Secretary of State has been very hard hit by the accessibility of care. Children are unneeded without care, unnecessarily in the crisis due to miscare, the elderly have to go to court for home care and carers are heavily overburdened. Everywhere everyone sees that this is not possible, but the Secretary of State insists that it is fine, because there is money left. Will the Secretary of State look up his calculator and look at the consequences of his policy? Hard cutting in a short time leads to many accidents. People get in trouble, but also their partners, their children and their parents get in trouble. That leads to mental damage and loss at work. How much does this shit cost? Let me give you an example. That cutting in home care would cost jobs was dismissed by this Secretary of State as a scaremongering. How did Mrs. Leijten of the SP come up with this? Yet last week he announced that 77.000 people in health care have lost their jobs in recent years. That's 77,000 people with partners, with children, but also with clients who are abandoned. How much did this joke cost for extra WW and assistance? How much was the savings on home care? How much does the distress created by the arrogant Secretary of State cost for drawing rights in the pgb? We're not getting an overview of it and we're not getting an insight into it. It's estimated to cost hundreds of millions more. It seemed like a good idea and it is a good idea, but the implementation is bad, as is the case with all other changes. In four years Van Rijn was born an entire generation that feels too expensive for society. When it comes to the elderly, it's always about money. The AOW is too expensive. Home care is too expensive. The nursing home is too expensive. The nursing home is too expensive. The calculator in hand looks at an entire generation. How many times a day do you go to the bathroom, three or four times? If you're in a nursing home, three times the standard. If you're at home dependent on incontinence material, you'll get a four-time change. That's all we're planning, and that's all we're getting. On TV this is defended by a driver. That's how far we've come down the bottom! The human size sounds nice, but from the mouth of someone with only a calculator in his hand, this sounds totally unbelievable. In our country people with a small or an empty wallet live seven years shorter and nineteen years of their lives in worse health. Socio-economic health inequalities are increasing. And what does our minister do? She reduces the package, she worsens access to care and she introduces the making of profit. It is good that the VVD-era-Schippers/Van Rijn will end. The SP would like to make a proposal to the Chamber to repair an important omission in our care. Due to the many changes in health care in recent years, public mental health care has disappeared from our system. The municipal health service has no place, no space and no authority to help people who are confused. If they suspect that there will be trouble for the family or for the people in the area, those services cannot use care to prevent it. There must first be an indication to be reimbursed for care. We're missing the phase for that indication. In order to prevent people from slipping into a longer path to recovery, I think we should join the initiative taken in Rotterdam by Woonbron and Antes. In it, someone from a housing corporation and a ggz nurse will visit people when there are reports. There's a lot of trouble behind the front door. There's a lot of invisible suffering. This can be solved without ending up in an arsenal of indicator counters, DBs (diagnosis-treatment combinations) and accountability mechanisms and without stigmatizing them. This can be done through public health care. Is the Chamber prepared to support the SP in making a proposal to enable and finance this kind of preventive care that is used by health professionals on the basis of common sense? We are convinced that this will save a great deal of suffering and avoid a great deal of expense. Despite the leaders who say that prevention is too expensive and that there must always be indications before you get care or support, we would like to take the step towards prevention and public mental health care. As far as we are concerned, we can find that money in the development of all kinds of things in the field of eHealth. First, we want assistance for people who are vulnerable rather than developing an app for people who have an iPhone. I'd like to hear from the other parties how they feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. In the early 1990s, socio-economic health disparities were smaller than they are today. Highly educated people lived four years longer and twelve years longer in good health than low-skilled people. In decades of neoliberal policy, the differences have increased further. Low-skilled people die six years earlier and live 19 years shorter in good health. That's a huge difference. These differences also manifest themselves in the teeth of the people of the various socio-economic classes. This, while good oral health is so important: for a good presentation, people dare to laugh and it is essential when it comes to eating good and healthy to be healthy and to stay. But also in terms of oral health, the gap is huge. For example, 30% of low-income people do not go to the dentist because of the costs, while 10% of high-income people do not do so. We also see that Moroccan and Turkish children have holes five times more often than three or more holes than Dutch children. Yes, some of these differences are explained by social inequality. Yes, dental expenses for children will be reimbursed, but the parents must address their own wallet. It is precisely in mouth care that there is strong family discipline: if the parents do not go, neither do the children. As far as the SP is concerned, therefore, dental care for adults should be included in the basic package. With our plans for a national health fund, we're gonna take care of that. If we want to do so, the majority of the population is in favour of this: the majority of the population wants to do so, we must also ensure that we have sufficient dentists. Do we have one? The answer to that question is no. The situation with regard to dental training in the Netherlands is currently bizarre. We currently have 7.855 dentists working in the Netherlands. Around 200 new dentists start a year in the Netherlands who are trained here and about 300 retire. There is therefore a decrease in the number of dentists working in the Netherlands. We're getting those 100 dentists from abroad now. That can't be true, can it? Let's make sure there are at least enough dentists. We have tabled an amendment to make this possible. After all, good teeth are worth gold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you very much. You spoke much shorter than I thought. I give the floor to Mr Potters on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. When your father or mother is in a nursing home, when you hear the news, the scare strikes at regular intervals. When you work in a nursing home, you regularly walk around the workplace with that same scare. After all, we are flooded with stories of nursing homes where there is no hot meal on the table at the weekend, where there is not enough staff to take care of everyone or, more importantly, to make sure that the right medicines are on the bedside table. In some nursing homes diapers are too little changed. Worse still, last week was about something terrible like peeing contracts. I repeat: pee contracts. I think this is a new low in care. This is unacceptable and inhumane and I get angry again when I think about this. Fortunately, at the request of the VVD, the Secretary of State intervened immediately, but the question is whether this does not happen in several locations. Last Friday, I went to the nursing home in question myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u8	I suspect Mrs Leijten would like to interrupt on your final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u9	I am pleased to note that the VVD feels that you cannot approach residents of a nursing home with a calculator in your hand and that you cannot say: this is the indication and that results in you being allowed to pee three times. Is Mr Potters also prepared to move away from these kinds of indications, which are set on a minute's basis and which are converted by consultants into: what concern do you have??
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u10	I think it's important that we share this... that you don't have to worry about a stopwatch, that you really have to look at the needs of the person in question in the nursing home, that if they have to go to the bathroom one more time, even if they're demented and maybe it's not always necessary... just go to the bathroom because this is important and this is part of a decent life. I also know that the staff in the nursing homes would like to do this. I think we can find each other at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u11	The argument for a human measure is unbelievable if you have a calculator in your hand at the same time. For example, our indications are now stated: a minimum number of minutes for residents. This means that nursing homes that don't know how to do it anymore hire consultants who will then calculate that going to the toilet should take 2.15 minutes or that you can only go to the toilet three times. That's the consequence of that. Is the VVD therefore willing to say that we are completely getting off those indications based on minutes, which are going to translate into what you actually get?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u12	I believe that we both, the SP and the VVD, want bureaucracy to be tackled, that care is really being delivered to the people who need that care and that we are trying to achieve that the management and the drivers who make the wrong choices in it are actually just being calculated and not caring for their residents, are actually going to make better choices. However, we must also dare to tackle poor nursing homes, where these things do take place. So I think we can say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u13	If Mr Potters says yes, I note that we are going to take a joint initiative to move away from care packages that determine how many minutes of care a person gets per week. That is how it is financed now: you are worth a package of minutes and that is then scheduled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u14	I'd like to look forward to that initiative. Last Friday, I went to check out the nursing home in Hellevoetsluis. I've talked extensively with residents, family and highly motivated staff. What I saw made a really deep impression on me. I saw very passionate staff, who work very hard day and night to provide care and who sometimes have to do an extra shift because there is a shortage of staff, but I also saw that there is security at the door, because there are completely idiots who, because they have read something about a puddle contract, are threatening these people. It's really awful to see that. I also saw a lot of distressed and sad residents and family members, who are shocked by all the news and who very much want good care to be provided, but who are sometimes proud of the employees who work day and night for it. This is a frightening situation. Improvement is therefore urgently needed. I am therefore pleased that this Secretary of State has chosen to use an intervention team in this nursing home to get that care in order quickly. Unfortunately, however, I have the impression that there is no incident, but that this kind of bad situation unfortunately occurs in more nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u15	Let me start by saying that I am pleased that Mr Potters himself visited the nursing home, but I also note that as a political contribution we contribute to a certain feeling about nursing homes. In particular, Mr Potters is calling for a debate or consultation very quickly. He's talking about peeing contracts and closing nursing homes. I recall that we had a general discussion on the austerity of the Long-Term Care Act, in which I believe the VVD was the only party who doubted whether that austerity should be removed. So my question to Mr Potters is whether he himself does not contribute to a very negative picture of the nursing homes. He was just talking about security. That is a terrible situation, of course, but I would also like to point out to Mr Potters a mirror, because I think he has also contributed to this in the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u16	I think it's very important to distinguish between good nursing homes and bad nursing homes. When we talk about poor nursing homes, we're not talking about bad staff. In fact, I have seen that there are a lot of passionate employees who work day and night to provide good care and who, against all odds, can sometimes do so. However, I do think that we should be tougher where things are bad. We've seen in the last summer that 11 nursing homes have really fallen through the ice. That's really not acceptable anymore. I believe that this is also a matter for politics, however difficult it is to name these kinds of problems, but I agree with you that we should say that there are good examples and that we should stand alongside the staff who say it needs help. Then we must also say: you are doing your best and we will try to make you deliver even better care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u17	I would just like to say that, of course, I will allow the interruption, but not all the interruptions in two or three. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u18	Perhaps I will turn this into a three-stage rocket; that will depend on Mr Potters' reaction. He's been talking to residents and people who work there, so nurses and nurses. It does something to a nursing home like that when we say here as a chamber: we have to get rid of those puddle contracts. I also got reactions from nurses who say that sometimes you have to make appointments when someone is demented, because someone who is demented doesn't always know how often to go to the bathroom. Does Mr Potters agree that it is also important that, from a political point of view, we do not act impulsively, but also take a look at the state of affairs? My second question is why Mr Potters had so much trouble getting that cut off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u19	I think it's justified. That's why I got in the car last Friday and drove straight there. I know what kind of impression it makes when people talk about pee contracts, especially when it comes to your nursing home. Then it is important that you wipe the afternoon out of your agenda to talk to residents, the people themselves, but above all also to the neighbors about what is going on, what they are angry about and what really needs to be better. You should be able to be there at that time. Yes, we must name things, but we must also take responsibility. When we talk about this kind of situation, we really should take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr Potters often gets excited and I understand that, but what is the solution of the VVD to the problems of nursing homes? We will have a general discussion on this shortly, but I think it is important to hear from Mr Potters how he will solve the problems in the nursing homes. I think there is a shortage of staff and we need to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u21	I think that's right. I also think it is very important that we have this debate here and again in two weeks' time. As far as I am concerned, a debate on this should be held every day until it really improves with the nursing homes in the Netherlands. There are some really good examples, but there is also a number of nursing homes where things are really not going well and I want to see major improvements in the short term. We have adopted the Potters motion on medication safety before the summer. More people are worried about this. I think the nursing home care needs to be improved in a short time, and I will work for it day and night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mrs Bergkamp has now asked three times about the cuts that the VVD said: fine, while all parties had their doubts. The question that Mrs Bergkamp has already asked three times is how the VVD will improve nursing care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u23	We're going to invest 400 million extra in the nursing homes next year. The austerity has been reversed and an additional 210 million has been invested in the past period. It's not just a matter of more money. The nursing homes that can do well with the same budget should be an example for the whole sector. If I were working in a nursing home that's blacklisted, I'd really care if I couldn't provide that good care while my neighbor apparently managed to do it four kilometers away. That is why we must raise the good nursing homes to a standard and punish bad behaviour more severely. That is the only way to ensure that vulnerable people in nursing homes can get the best care, and that can be done with the budget that we are spending on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u24	I agree that it is indeed necessary to look at the nursing homes that are doing badly. We are, of course, talking about the administration; we need to look at it. Mr Potters claims that extra money has come, but then he takes a walk with the truth. It just isn't. On balance, a huge amount of money has been cut in recent years, much more than the 400 million that Mr Potters is talking about. Moreover, there is still a 200 million cut in long-term care on the VWS budget. Mr Potters must therefore be honest. If he says that there must be no cuts, he must come up with more than a reversal of what has already been cut. This isn't extra investment. Be honest for once!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u25	Two things. There has indeed been cuts in long-term care. But the nursing homes have not been cut back in recent years. In fact, extra investment has been made to raise the nursing homes to a higher level. We must therefore invest in the nursing homes where things are going well and not bring money to nursing homes that are not functioning properly, because that really will not give us better care. What about the 200 million-dollar mission? That's not right. There's no 200 million-dollar target open. This has to do with the problem of terms of trade. We can now have a whole debate on this, but it is not the case that there is another 200 million. In short, the austerity has been cut and we are investing more than 400 million more in the nursing home sector from next year on. I like that. There is a lot of money going into the nursing home sector and that is good, but I do want good money going into good nursing homes and not good money going into bad nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u26	I see Mrs Keijzer standing by the interrupting microphone. Mrs Keijzer, does your interruption shed new light on this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u27	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u28	I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr President, but wouldn't it be special if I weren't allowed to interrupt here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u30	That's a real misconception. The President allows for interruptions, and he can't do that either. This is a strong debate in which there is always a lot of interference. That is all well and good, but I would like to call on all Members of Parliament to limit these interruptions to what is absolutely necessary and, above all, to intervene briefly. All the more interruptions are possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u31	I appreciate your commitment to ensure that these discussions are conducted smoothly and effectively, but limiting me to the most necessary would be detrimental to the scope of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u32	Then confine yourself to what is necessary, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two of my colleagues have just mentioned it. Mr Potters has been here twice to make sure, above all, that the 500 million cuts in nursing care would continue. Now we get to hear some very nice other words. That is wonderful and I am pleased, because together we want to improve nursing care, but I still have another question. A long time ago, there was talk of a ban on the administration of non-functioning, fraudulent and "grabbing" drivers. In the nursing home care sector, too, things sometimes go wrong. A law was passed at the time in which the prohibition of administration was only possible for administrators in the event of bankruptcy. The CDA then advocated a broader use of that instrument. Is the VVD now willing, together with the CDA, to broaden the scope of this ban in order to put an end to the careers of these people, at least in the care sector, in the places where drivers are not functioning and nursing care is far below the standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mrs Keijzer, I admit that will give us a new light on the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u35	This is in line with a point I will come back to later, but I can give you a short answer. I also think that there is simply no place for bad drivers in the care. It is precisely not in healthcare, because drivers there are responsible for a very large group of vulnerable people who have no choice. I also think that that is why you should have good and morally good drivers who can make good judgements. Whether this should be dealt with by a ban on administration, I really can't see that at the moment, I don't know what the proposal is, but I totally agree with Mrs Keijzer that we should have good drivers and that we should ban bad drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u36	This is too thin. First, the VVD Group, in two instances, is in favour of maintaining a 500 million cut in nursing care. The party then pays lip service to the proposal to ensure that bad drivers disappear from care, but if there is a concrete proposal, the party does not want it, and even now Mr Potters does not clarify it. Does the VVD Group really want to become concrete and indicate what it is going to do to ensure that the poor functioning of nursing homes as a result of poor governance comes to an end? The administrative ban is one of the possibilities for this. If that's not him, I'd like to hear another concrete proposal. Otherwise today it really remains only with beautiful words from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u37	I actually have the same questions as Mrs Keijzer, but I would like to address these questions to the Secretary of State, because I also think that bad drivers should simply be excluded from care, whether by a ban on administration or otherwise. For example, mandatory intervision may be introduced, it may be that we are very transparent about what drivers have done in a previous period, or that the boards of directors need to get a bit more windy. There are plenty of possibilities to ensure that bad drivers are prevented and that not the old boys network brings a new driver again. These are all questions I would like to ask this Secretary of State. I also think that Mrs Keijzer's question on a ban on administration is a good question, and I think that the Secretary of State can give a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u38	The VVD has a fraction of 40 people, with support and always opportunities to get information in other ways, and with that it can make a proposal to gradually abolish protected living, but it seems that no concrete proposals can be made in this respect? There's no such thing. It just can't be. So I just want to hear from the VVD what the proposals are to achieve those very nice words about improving nursing care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u39	A new quality framework will soon be drawn up by the Zorginstituut Nederland. These kinds of questions will have to be included. I agree with Mrs Keijzer on this point. I think it is a little faint that she is now saying, on the basis of one question, that she does not receive an answer and immediately asks where the other proposals lie. I do not think we are at all opposed to each other and we both want the same thing. The question of how this should be done is very much the same in our Parliament, and I would very much like to put it to the cabinet, because a good solution must be found. Whether this solution is the ban on the administration mentioned by Mrs Keijzer or not, I think we have the same objective in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u40	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u41	If my father or mother ends up in a nursing home at any time, I only want one thing, and that's good and worthy for him or her to be taken care of. I'm not the only one who wants that. All the people on the floor who work with heart and soul day and night want that, including the people from the Careyn Grootenhoek nursing home in Hellevoetsluis, where I went last Friday. Unfortunately, the drivers of most nursing homes seem more busy with their substantial reward than with the residents. That's really unacceptable. I want involved directors who know what lives with the residents and the staff and who prevent degrading situations from arising. I want the best nursing homes to be the norm for all nursing homes in the Netherlands. Fortunately, there are also institutions where older people are well cared for. It is important that we pay particular attention to this, as I say to Mrs Bergkamp. If it's possible there with the money and the rules that apply to everyone, then it should be possible anywhere. However, the differences between nursing homes are enormous. I assume that the Secretary of State will finally intervene if drivers are structurally inadequate. What guarantees can the Secretary of State give? Do we finally see a significant improvement in the short term? The age composition in our country is changing at a fast pace. The end doesn't get in sight until around 2040. The Netherlands not only has an increasing number of elderly people, but also the elderly remain healthy and vital for a longer period of time. That's good news. Even better news is that it is increasingly possible for these older people to choose to live in their own familiar home. The time you were expected to leave your home at 70 to spend your last days in a retirement home is now definitely behind us. I'm just saying because, of course, it's a terrible term. That's a good thing. In twenty years' time, the proportion of people over 65 living in nursing homes has been halved. Today, more than 80% of the 80-plussers live at home. The VVD thinks this is a good development. Those who allow the numbers to work in themselves really see that our society is very different at the moment, very different than many realize. Those who allow this to happen in themselves also see that the organisation of care is far from moving fast enough with the wishes and demands of the ageing Dutch population. However, a lot is going well as well. It has been a good decision to place a large part of the care of the elderly in municipalities to put an end to the one-size-fits-none, or: the same, inappropriate solution for everyone. Thanks to this decentralisation, space has been created to really tailor-made what care and support someone needs. As people continue to live at home for longer and longer, it is important to remember this explicitly. The municipalities have received billions from the Empire to arrange care close to the inhabitants in the context of the Wmo, as we all want. In many cases these are vulnerable elderly people who can stay at home with a little help, not because this should be the case with the government, as is often wrongly said, but because they prefer to stay at home and in a familiar environment for as long as possible, with familiar faces around them and with family and friends who come and help them occasionally. Isn't that true for all of us? A good example of making this possible is the neighborhood nurse, who is back in the neighborhood and can provide excellent and loving care close by. Another good example is the structural financing of the first-line residence, so that care for the elderly can be provided where necessary in the event of major transitions between hospital, home and nursing home. There are still considerable challenges in this respect. It is therefore remarkable that the municipalities have now left more than 1 billion on the healthcare budget, including the budget for the implementation of the Wmo. This is even more remarkable because, prior to the transfer of tasks and responsibilities to the municipalities, large deficits were called upon to occur. The opposite seems to be true. The VVD wants residents to simply get good care at home and close, as we have agreed in this country; so not squandering community money unnecessarily, but helping vulnerable elderly people to stay at home. We want to prevent the elderly from going to a nursing home if they do not have to, because in their own environment they are the happiest. Can the Secretary of State state state state what is the reason why the municipalities have left this huge amount on the shelf and what could be the consequences for the inhabitants? Does it not benefit everyone that older people can stay at home for as long as possible, also because older people want to? Is there enough tailor-made work in practice by the municipalities, as we agreed here in this house? The VVD believes that this can and should be different for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u42	Do you finish the previous point or do you start with a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u43	I see Mrs Leijten at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u44	I didn't ask you to do that. Go ahead, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u45	I think everyone wants to stay home longer, but there is a sentence to that: as long as that is possible. It must also be about wanting to do so. I was listening to Mr Potters. There is a social trend that people can stay at home for longer and want to stay at home. That's what's getting past policy, which means they're gonna have to live at home longer. What's the VVD like in here? Is it about being allowed and making it possible, or is it about staying at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u46	Maybe. People really want to live at home. It's what people want. My father and mother, and I think Mrs Leijten's father and mother, just want to live at home as long as possible. If they need help and support from their municipalities, this should be possible. If there's really no other way, sometimes the hard choice has to be made to go to the nursing home, but only if people want it. I want to stop the image that the VVD would say that people should be forced to stay home longer, when they do not want to. That is absolutely not true. People want this and we need to make it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u47	I just gave the example of an almost 100-year-old woman. She's 97.5 years old and wants to go to a nursing home, but she can't. Then it's got to be. That's why I asked my question. You shut down the nursing homes because you say you have to stay at home. Is it allowed or have to stay at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u48	This is bullshit. We're not shutting down the nursing homes. We are not saying that people should stay at home because they are not allowed to go to a nursing home. It has been a fact for years that a lot of people no longer want to go to a nursing home and that 80-year-olds really want to stay home. It is true that they need help and support. For this reason, we have decentralised nearly 11 billion from the Empire to the municipalities, so that the municipalities can fill this in properly. I am critical of the fact that money has been left behind, because I believe that the municipalities should do this right. If they don't do well, they won't keep the promise we made together, namely that care will be taken care of closely. I want people to be able to make that choice in the end. If there's really no other way, sometimes they're gonna have to go to a nursing home and then the care will have to be good there. I would, however, like to prevent people from going to an institution unnecessarily, when they would like to stay at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u49	I see examples of people who want to live in a protected environment; of people who want to go to a nursing home, but this government is not allowed to do so, because it has been broken down. Those people just don't get that indication. Someone is almost 100 years old, sees little, hears little, has enormous physical discomforts, but the head is still there. Someone like that has to stay at home. That's VVD policy. That's not "willing." I think this is a big deal. It is said here that extra investment is being made in the nursing homes, and that would be 400 million. This amount has been removed earlier and is now being released in order to avoid problematic waiting lists. There are people on the waiting list who do not want to stay at home or stay at home. In addition, there is a huge group that is rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u50	What is your question to Mr Potters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u51	The VVD is not making policies to keep people living at home for longer, no, people have to stay at home. The hospitals are full. Emergency aid becomes emergency care. That is the final policy of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u52	In response to the whole speech of the SP, I can put down a completely different story. We are trying to arrange what a lot of people want, namely to stay home as long as possible. This is not only what people want, but above all what they want, because if they want to provide care, they prefer to do so at home, without being dependent on an institution. If someone really has to go to an institution, the delivery of care in that institution must be in order. For this reason, Mrs Leijten, we have been concerned about these nursing homes all along and we no longer accept that there are such bad nursing homes that we debate them almost every week. I think we agree on this point. Mr. Chairman. For the future this can and must be changed as far as the VVD is concerned. Too many people, especially vulnerable older people, are now dependent on the quality of care provided by existing institutions. If you're unlucky and you're in one of those blacklisted settings, you can't make a choice of your own. If you don't like the care and want to take your father or mother to a better institution, you should be able to. You have to be able to vote with your feet and the budget that is available must go with you. That is the only way people can influence good care themselves. That is the essence of personal funding. The VVD is convinced that institutions provide better care if they become transparent and if there is something to gain or lose. The client's wish and not the interest of the institution should be central. Drivers must be on the edge of their seats every day in order to provide the best care for their clients. Yesterday, the Chamber had a motion (34104, no. 146), which will ensure that personal funding will be rolled out on a wider scale in the Netherlands in the event of a positive result. The VVD warmly welcomes that. I still have a few points for the Secretary of State. I think it is important that he sends a clear signal, including in this debate, and says: enough is enough. A new blacklist of the inspection shows that in addition to the six nursing homes removed from the list, three new nursing homes have been added. In addition, the Zorginstituut Nederland now has to establish a quality framework for the sector because after two years the sector itself did not come out. Two years of baking about something like a quality framework and not coming out of it, which makes it necessary to ask the Zorginstituut Nederland to draw this up: these are disturbing signals. I ask the Secretary of State if he is genuinely of the opinion that it is going the right way with nursing care. Is the medication safety really in order everywhere now, like the Chamber for the summer through the motion-Potters c.s. (31765, No. 224)? I come to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u53	You mean you're at the end of your speech, Mrs Voortman has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u54	I would like to talk about the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. That's what we took this year. An amendment on general accessibility was also adopted. Now there is a General Measure of Governance, which has not been discussed at all with people with disabilities and in which no specific standard is laid down for that general accessibility. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u55	We agreed with each other that we would ratify that treaty and that there would soon be a General Measure of Governance. It's there now. I think it is important that people with disabilities have as much accessible environment as possible, so that they can really participate in society and, for example, go into a café to have a beer. However, we must also recognise that we cannot expect such a catering operator, who may only have two staff, to install an expensive stair lift immediately. There must be a balance. There is a General Measure of Governance. It must enter into force. Then we all have to get to work as much as possible to make this possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u56	It's true that you can't expect, for example, that the hospitality entrepreneur immediately arranged everything from 1 January 2017. That was also explicitly stated in the amendment. However, the proposal now before us does not regulate anything at all. Above all, it should not cost too much, and above all we should not be too specific. It is actually a step backwards from what we have now, because all kinds of important standards are not mentioned at all. Then there was also no consultation with the people who were involved, whereas this was explicitly addressed in the debate on the UN Convention. Does the VVD also think that an AMvB that has been decided over the heads of the people is not a good basis for moving forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u57	I think it's very important that you talk to the people themselves about how they feel about it. If Mrs Voortman has this criticism, she must express that criticism mainly in the direction of the Secretary of State, not in my direction. I didn't have this General Measure put into effect. I think it is important that we keep that balance. I regret, however, that Mrs Voortman speaks of it in this way. In my view, a very important signal has been sent, namely that people with disabilities are just part of it. The signal is that they can go to the pub to have a beer, that they are fully part of this society and that everyone simply recognizes it. That signal's been sent. We have had an extensive and nice debate on this. Now, please, let's see the glass half full once in a while and see how this is going to work out! I'm very positive about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. On November 30th last year my mother stepped on a sidewalk in the evening on a trip with a few friends. She lost her balance, fell and broke her shoulder. That trap happened close to the hospital. She was rushed there and quickly helped. You know: pictures, a tight mitella, a large amount of painmakers and the announcement that she should not or should hardly burden her shoulder for six weeks. The latter seemed only a simple announcement, but it turned out to have a huge impact. It caused my mother, an active 68-year-old woman, to turn into someone who needed help in every way and lost a large part of her independence for almost a year. Ten years ago, after my dad died and my mom was suddenly alone, she just gave herself up. She had put herself over her great fear of driving and had ensured her independence by driving again. But now she wasn't allowed to drive because of a broken shoulder. She couldn't keep her house clean, she couldn't do any more shopping, she couldn't cook, she couldn't undress or undress herself. Fortunately, there was a lot of help from a good friend, from friends, from relatives, from neighbors and from a neighborhood nurse. But one thing was certain: she had become very dependent on one moment at a time. Because she was no longer allowed to move, a chronic complaint also got worse: bronchitis. Chronic bronchitis caused severe pneumonia. It eventually made it necessary to visit a pulmonary doctor. From that moment on, a chain reaction to medical examinations started, especially when she also had a threatening heart problem that turned out to be stress-related. There followed an acute hospitalization, a lot of medication, a zip of return visits, intensive and complex research at an internist et cetera. And each time, transport, assistance and support had to be arranged to enable the visits and the investigations. The dependence and the undesirable but inevitable lack of independence grew hand in hand. And that for a woman who was in the city council for 23 years, works in the world store and works intensively for the church! In short, someone in the middle of life. The good news is that my mom's getting back on track. Her health is on the right track and the quality of medical care and the help of family and friends in her area has not been missed. But the scare remains, as does the awareness of how quickly you can become care-free and dependent. I tell this personal story from the realization that this example will apply to so many. As Mr Potters said, it is precisely for this reason that it is so important that care changes with social development, a development in which the number of elderly people who want to live at home is high and will increase significantly until 2040. If society is to change so quickly, care must change at the same pace. The organisation of care will have to respond more quickly than at present to the demands of a country with an ageing population. For example, my mother felt especially dependent at the moments when she had to go from her home to the hospital 15 kilometers away. Aid and transport have always had to be arranged for this. Studies at different specialists could often not be planned on the same day. A part of the specialists sometimes held consultation hours with her in the village. At those moments she could go to the specialist with much less help and support herself. Some specialists were reached by telephone to give an explanation about a result. That was totally ideal. What would it be nice if that care on site wasn't the exception but the rule! That would have a huge positive impact on her quality of life and her independence. What is true of my mother is true of many others, because in an ageing country it is very important for the well-being and vitality of people to move care to people wherever possible. The more care can be organized in and close to home, the better. For the quality of life it is crucial that the right care is delivered as close to home as possible with as little fuss and waiting time as possible. Fortunately, we are already seeing this happening. In more and more places care is moved from the hospital. If there is a new building of hospitals, the number of beds decreases significantly, in some cases even by 70%. This is not a loss of care, but rather an improvement, because with the reduction in the number of beds care is moved to people. That is the good development. This development is currently being strengthened in areas where it is possible to reach multi-annual agreements between health insurers and hospitals. These multi-annual appointments give direction and tranquility, allowing work to be done from moving care to the first line or even into the living room. To prevent people from having to drive to the hospital again and again and to promote care close to home, a lot has already started. As far as the VVD is concerned, we must work to speed things up. The VVD is therefore pleased that the cabinet is really going to make an acceleration in the eHealth with the program FastTrack eHealth. It's English, Mr. Chairman, but that's what the plans say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u59	Well, I guess we'll just have to do it sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u60	Yeah, it's called "FastTrack eHealth"; it's no different. If an eHealth application allows someone to dial in via an image connection to check his or her insulin quantity, that person will no longer have to wait for the district nurse. He or she can take matters into his own hands. The eHealth programme COPD in the picture, which was embraced by one of the major national insurers this week, prevents a huge number of hospital visits for COPD patients. Those are just two examples. The VVD strongly supports these developments. We know that this Minister will no longer be able to conclude a comprehensive agreement for 2018 and beyond, but we also know that she can make the preparations for this. In these preparations, can it ensure that ingredients are ready for a substantial increase in multi-annual contracts, targeted agreements on moving care from the hospital to care in and around the home and a substantial investment in the application of eHealth? The VVD has been working for many years for the practical supporter of elderly care at the GP. Fortunately, this practical supporter is being used in more and more places to streamline care for vulnerable elderly people. I see Mrs Leijten is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u61	I have a question for Mr Rutte on the multiannual contracts. Last week it was about that at Buitenhof. Ab Klink said during the broadcast that he is going to do some things in this area for the insurer where this former minister is now the director. The driver of a hospital in Amsterdam said: I would like to, but then I have such a nice contract with one insurer and not with the other. There is no guarantee that insurers will follow each other on this point. In fact, it's a problem if they follow each other, because then there's no competition. Is Mr Rutte of the opinion that it would be a good idea to abolish competition between health insurance companies in the procurement process? This allows you to guarantee the longer term and make agreements on the relocation of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u62	It is precisely because of competition that there is no uniformity and there are insurers who take these kinds of steps and say: I make a different choice; I am going to contract on a multiannual basis. If it's a success, more insurers will follow. Precisely because it's not a one-size-fits-none, parties take the initiative to settle things. I'm very happy about that. The NVGz is taking a good and sensible step in this respect. There are more insurers who are currently doing so, including in my own region. The Martini Hospital has a four-year appointment with the largest insurer in the north of the country. I think this is wise. These kinds of agreements are being made more and more often. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u63	Such experiments can take place if there is a very large insurer that purchases the most. If that's not the case, if there's a lot more insurers buying a part, then you can't make that shot. So if the competition is less, you can make a much better long-term planning. Then you can also make much better arrangements about moving care from the hospital to the neighborhood, much better than when there is a lot of competition. Is Mr Rutte prepared to eliminate or reduce this competition in order to serve the long-term perspective in our health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u64	I would like to draw attention to the fact that, thanks to competition, the parties, insurers, are taking these kinds of steps. They do this first in the region where they are most dominant, with the partners with whom they run the largest turnover. I understand that. To be honest, I think that insurers have waited far too long to take these steps. It's always been possible, but they didn't act on it. I find that disappointing, but I am very glad that it is happening now. I am convinced, if this is a success, that insurers will apply it to all hospitals. An insurance company will want to see it work first. I am convinced of that in advance, but I understand that people want to look at it for a year. I support this good development. I am glad that the SP thinks that this is also a good development.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u65	It's a good development. That gives me inspiration for the plea to get rid of health insurers, because they are also doing something else. They buy too little care in regions where they are not big, resulting in patient stops from certain insurers in Friesland, for example. In Twente, a certain health insurance company, the health insurance company where the former Minister Ab Klink is now a director, does not do what needs to be done either. That's where patients, insured people aren't helped either. Mr Rutte states that insurers sometimes do good things when they have the power. However, where they have no power, they abandon patients. This calls for a national health fund, which eliminates the power of the large insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u66	I will get to the story about one-size-fits-none from the National Health Fund in a moment, but I totally disagree with Mrs Leijten. I see insurers taking very good steps in all kinds of places. Fortunately, where they have done less well, there is still the possibility of switching to another insurer. Mrs Leijten wants to deny those who deny freedom of choice. I am absolutely not in favour of that. I was at the practice support care for the elderly. That's a very small step to the specialist in old-age medicine. This year we would again like to call for special attention to be paid to the specialist in old age medicine. This specialist knows all about the often very complex care demand of vulnerable elderly people. This specialist can above all prevent too much or wrong care from being given. The specialist in old age medicine prevents the elderly from being sent back to hospital in the event of a new illness. On the contrary, he looks fully at the vitality and health of the elderly. The VVD welcomes the fact that the senior medical specialist has been able to access the first line with the subsidy scheme so far. That is good, but we would like this to be given a firmer foundation. What barriers still need to be removed to ensure that the specialist in old-age medicine can have a permanent place in primary care? I'd like a reflection on this by the Minister. From a point of view of better care in a country with an ageing population, a lot of beautiful things happen, such as the project Hospital@Home. Thanks to intensive cooperation between the University Medical Centre Groningen, also the UMCG, community care organisations, general practitioners and health insurance companies, a project will be launched from January in which elderly people with dementia who end up in the emergency care of the UMCG will be brought home and can receive hospital care there. The project is led by Sophia de Rooij, head of the University Centre for Old Age Medicine of the UMCG. She has already shown with research that if demented elderly people have to be admitted to the hospital as a matter of urgency, there is a good chance that they will come out very badly. The chance of a subsequent placement in the nursing home is then life-long. Hospital@Home is expected to deliver a significant improvement in the quality of life. Moreover, there is a presumption that costs can also be saved. A good economic evaluation of this project requires €100,000. I have therefore tabled an amendment to allow these funds to be released. The VVD is a strong supporter of Hospital@Home's approach and expects that a positive evaluation of the project can lead to this approach no longer being a small project, but will sustainably become a place in good care for vulnerable elderly people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u67	For example, it can be seen that in different regions there is sometimes real customisation and that good solutions are being looked at. I have just heard several colleagues say that they are very concerned about all those elderly people who end up in the emergency room, but actually belong somewhere else. You're talking about something that starts this year and needs to be evaluated. You want to make money available for this, but what should happen in the short term in order to deal with this problem of the elderly who are wrongly arriving in the emergency room?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u68	It is a difficult and multifaceted problem, and I agree with Mrs Bruins Slot. I've also had conversations with people in the emergency room about this. They say that it is a two-fold problem. On the one hand, there's the influx. A much bigger problem is actually that people who come to the emergency room often find it very difficult to return home. Sometimes they need to be placed in a nursing home. Sometimes it would be better if they went to a first-line residence. This cabinet has really taken steps to give the first-line residence more body, more solidity. These are all steps that need more attention throughout the chain, to ensure that this type of congestion is prevented because these are problematic.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Hospital@Home is a very promising and inspiring project. This, too, is a way of ensuring that vulnerable older people are brought to a situation where they can be helped much better as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr Rutte really describes the problem very well, in the sense that there is a jam, it is not really a fine word, and that a solution must be found. There should be a solution by now. There are regions, for example around Breda, where the parties have liked each other. In other regions of the Netherlands it is really not going well and the water involved is on the lips. What does Mr Rutte want to do for these regions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u70	If there are inspirational examples in regions where things go well, we really need to learn from them. That's what I'm here for. In my entire speech, I say for a reason that good things happen in many places. But it's not going fast enough. Our society is really changing faster than care can be right now. We must bring this flexibility into it. We must support the good projects and ensure that they become the norm. I'd love to do that search with the CDA. I very much agree with Mrs Bruins Slot on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u71	You can see how difficult it is to find each other. Now there is a minister of VWS, who has perseverance when it comes to bringing parties together. Do you think, like the CDA, that the Minister should really take this actively and ensure in the short term that parties come up with solutions together and do not continue to swim individually?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u72	When the problem of congestion in the emergency services first came to light, I think now about three months ago, the Minister did exactly that. It has put all the parties directly together to see what is now needed to resolve this. The problem hasn't been solved in three months. I regret that, too; I would prefer it to be so. That's the way to go. If that requires further encouragement, I agree. If there are inspiring examples that show that it can, let them become the norm. I would like to look together to find such examples, such as Hospital@Home is one of the projects that can offer a solution, provided that it is not just a project, but also gets real body and becomes more. That is why I want to evaluate it well, so that we know exactly what we are talking about. Another project that the VVD wants to support is making a standard of care diabetes for the elderly. The Dutch Diabetes Federation develops and manages the standard of care in the field of diabetes, but at the moment the resources are lacking to give specific attention to diabetes care that is needed for the elderly. This customization can make a significant contribution to the quality of life of elderly people with diabetes and can also prevent a lot of follow-up costs. I have therefore tabled an amendment to release funds to strengthen the standard of care diabetes for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u73	Do you have anything else on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u74	I have one more point and then a new paragraph. I guess we'll go to a new subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u75	I have a question on this amendment from the VVD Group. First of all, I welcome this amendment, because I had already climbed into the pen to write an amendment to this effect. I also think that care for people with diabetes can be better. I note that this amendment deals specifically with diabetes in the elderly. Does Mr Rutte know that there are also more and more young people with type 2 diabetes, 40s, people of our age, and even children? What does he want to do for these people? Should this new standard of care also be developed in view of these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u76	For all those who follow us at a distance, and there are often more than you would think: this is about the amendment in part No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u77	Good thing you're keeping an eye on the numbering, Mr. Chairman, because I wasn't ready for that. There is a standard of care for diabetes and it describes what good care is for people with diabetes. As Mrs Dik said, there is, of course, a great diversity of patients. There is a difference between type 1 and type 2 diabetes, and it matters whether someone is very young or just by age. I have written this amendment specifically for the elderly, because they also have a specific project in place at the NDF. In this way they want to regulate care for the elderly, because they are the largest group and because diabetes is really increasing in that group and leads to follow-up costs at the moment. That is a problem in practice, and I want to solve it with this amendment. I agree with Mrs Dik that diabetes is one of the major societal challenges we are facing today and that it needs broad attention. That's absolutely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u78	I conclude that Mr Rutte has deliberately chosen this target group. I see that group growing, too, but with the people from 40 years old. I'm very worried about that and even younger people. There are even children under 10 who already develop type 2 diabetes. What does Mr Rutte want to do for these people? We don't have enough insight into the problem and we don't have any care standards at all for that incredibly young group of people with type 2 diabetes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u79	I admit that I have now specifically looked for a solution to the problem of the lack of a standard of care for the elderly. It was already very hard looking in the budget for an amount to organize and improve that. That doesn't mean that I don't think it's important to deal with diabetes in other age groups. That is an important theme, but I have now focused specifically on the elderly. If Mrs Dik has good ideas for improving diabetes care for other groups as well, and if she has proper coverage for that, I will, of course, take a good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u80	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u81	During the debate on this budget, I would also like to take the opportunity to look back. During the 2014 budget debate, I cleared 1 million per year for care evaluation with an amendment for three years. With this money, organisations such as ZonWm and the Federation of Medical Specialists have been working hard, supported by the health insurance companies, who have also invested money in that research. More than two years later, with that money, not only a large number of research projects have been launched with good results, but six new research projects are about to begin. The parties concerned, in addition to ZonWm and the Federation of Medical Specialists, are also the organisation of the academic hospitals NFU, the organisation of the non-academic hospitals NWZ, the health insurance companies and the Health Care Institute Netherlands, indicating that they want care evaluation to become a standard part of good care. This is not only cost-effective, but also ensures that someone gets the best and the most effective treatment. For example, the question is whether you should operate on a wrist fracture or whether you should treat it very conservatively with splints. That makes a lot of difference for the impact. The VVD supports the commitment of stakeholders to make medical evaluation research an integral part of good care and is willing to identify and remove any obstacles where possible. Does the Minister share that ambition? It is clear that it is very important that care changes in a country where an increasing proportion of the population is elderly. That's happening in many places, as I outlined, but it can and it needs to be done faster and better. The VVD is committed to this, with the conviction that this leads to more quality of life and more vitality, not only for the elderly, but also for young people. Because in a country where care for the elderly is well and smartly organised, care for young people is also in order. After all, we have to take into account a changing need for care in an ageing country, but we organise good care for everyone, old or young, poor or rich. This brings me to my last topic, solidarity in the care sector. For many people, the monthly care premium is quite a cost. In addition to the income-related contribution on the pay slip, you pay care premium every month. For those who actually use care, there is an additional risk of up to €385. If, as is the case at present, this premium is higher than expected, then people are not happy with it. Then such a story about free care or a health care fund is suddenly very appealing, although you know deep down in your heart that that is not really possible at all, free care. However, there are parties who believe that free care does exist and who call for the abolition of health insurers and leaving care to the government to solve all the problems. But those parties didn't mention that it's not about the care, but about your paycheck and that everyone who works hard and has a normal job is going to pay a lot more for the care. Moreover, they do not tell what state care ultimately means for a large part of the freedom of choice. On the other hand, people crying out that care is something that everyone should take care of for themselves, who see the American system of each as the best solution for themselves. Choice too over, but those who have bad luck in life are soon in the cold and can sell their house to pay for necessary care. That too is unacceptable in a civilized country like the Netherlands. The fact is that curative care in the Netherlands is very good and especially very accessible, that someone with a welfare allowance in the Netherlands can go to the same doctor as a millionaire, that the insured package is huge and is growing every year and that you can choose the doctor and specialist who is best for you. The fact is that healthcare costs are rising and will continue to rise in the coming years, although they have been able to slow down the rise over the past year. The increase in healthcare costs is mainly because we can do more and more. That's good news for people who get sick, but we still have to be able to afford it with each other. The fact is that the majority of Dutch people use little or no care, but they pay for the cost of the care out of solidarity. That solidarity is under pressure, because if you see an increasing proportion of your income disappear year after year, without getting anything in return, it simply doesn't feel right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u82	Free care does indeed not exist, because everyone pays premium. What does exist is wasteful care. 500 million a year to the whole transition circus, profits made by health insurance companies and hoarding and healthcare institutions that have to compete with each other for the benefit of the patient or the insured. People have tobacco from that. 54% of your own people say that they do not agree with the argument that market forces have made care better, cheaper and more accessible. Why is the VVD so opposed to an alternative to the couple that is wasteful and doesn't bring what it's supposed to bring?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u83	I understand very well that people sometimes worry if they can get the care they really need, the moment it plays and whether they can afford it. I fight every day to take those concerns away. That's something completely different from what the SP does. The SP does nothing but constantly scare people, pretending to be a third world country with care and that there is nothing wrong with it and in the meantime come up with stories that ultimately turn into a left-wing income policy. Of that kind of fear-making, of that kind of income policy hidden in a story about care, no one has ever gotten better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u84	I think this is kind of freaky. Apparently, the VVD needs its own text to talk about an alternative to the wasteful health insurance companies, while Mr Rutte remains seated when I remind the Minister that the alternative is only greater. 54% of VVD citizens have tobacco from the market and 80% of the entire population says: away with that market. Do you know why? People are tired of consultants going through care to advise on how to do your job, while not looking at the workplace. People also have tobacco that we should provide funding for research into innovative care, whereas those health insurance companies should have taken care of it. Last week I see the Minister in the newspaper saying: I am now going to enforce transparency. I thought it was going to be transparent by health insurance companies. All the promises of your healthcare system have not been fulfilled. Care becomes more expensive and at the same time more inaccessible. The fact that you close your eyes to that is very worrying. 54% of your own people see it and want a stop on market forces. The National Health Fund does that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u85	This is the same scaremongering I just fought myself against. That whole story of "it's all market operation and it's all wrong"... People who use care notice in practice that the care in our country is of excellent level. There is a great deal to improve and that will always be the case, but care is at an excellent level compared to care in the neighbouring countries. Care is also much more affordable than in all our neighbouring countries. The cost of curative care is lower. Mrs Leijten shakes no, but Mrs Leijten does not do facts. The SP has done research, because when the Central Planning Bureau calculates things, Mrs Leijten says: that's no fun, that's all market forces. It's bullshit. The care in the Netherlands is very good. It is a huge challenge to keep it available and affordable for everyone. Simple plans for a socialist care fund where the police officer ultimately has to pay 53% tax and the director of an elementary school 67% to finance the income policy of the SP, I find totally scandalous politics. I don't think this has anything to do with care anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u86	I'm getting an open nerve at the VVD, that's obvious. This income policy is not at all part of the national care fund. I don't know where Mr Rutte gets it. He's dragging something in and doing scare-making here. It is not true that income policy is part of the national health fund. People just pay their bounty. 46 billion is coming in as money is coming in now. What we stop is advertising, waste: doing the same research three times in different hospitals because it's earned, consultants who teach you to declare smart, bureaucracy...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u87	You said all that in the first term. Can you cut to the chase? You can see that I am not killing the debate at all, but can it be a little shorter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u88	It is said that I do scare-making, but Mr Rutte brings in things that are not right, which are not right. That's what I'm pointing out. When Mr Rutte sees that it is not going well in the care, he always needs the minister, the government, to intervene. The minister had to intervene at full emergency rooms filled with elderly people. The health insurance companies didn't. Ergo, an expensive system. The problems that are manifesting do not solve the health insurers and the VVD is not prepared to do anything about it: look-away policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u89	Last year the SP was here with a precursor of the care fund. It was kind of a first step. The plan was called The concern is ours. This happened to include a CPB calculation, but for the new plans they have not dared to do so anymore. That's where the numbers I just mentioned come from: 53% tax for the police officer, 67% tax for the school director. That will only increase further. The only thing the SP has in concrete numbers is everything it no longer wants. She doesn't want to risk herself. This leads to 4.5 billion additional healthcare costs. There must be all kinds of things in the package. Anything the SP wants, it costs 6.5 billion. That is encrypted in something that is a premium, but then a largely income-dependent one. I'm just gonna add that to income tax, and then I'm gonna give you these pictures. I understand that Mrs Leijten does not want to tell you that, because it is of course very popular to say 'I make it free, you feel nothing and it only gets better', but it is pertinently incorrect. And yes, I respond to that, because I don't like these kind of easy stories. For that I care too much, for which I find the concern far too important, for this kind of scare-making and easy talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u90	Your last brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u91	A report is cited here to which we were challenged by the VVD. We said, "Make the Health Insurance Act dependent on income, without your own risk." That's not possible, said the VVD. We had it figured out. Then we said: we make the AWBZ income dependent. "Can't," said the VVD. We had it figured out. Then the VVD said, if you add it up, you can't. We have shown that there are three different ways in which you can do that. But that is quite different from the proposal from the national health fund. If you stop health insurance companies, you'll save 1.5 billion on the switching circus and profits. You can attack the bureaucracy. There you can save at least 1.3 billion. If you deal with drug prices, you've got 750 million in the bag. That's how you solve your own risk. There is no more expensive care, no other financing and the premium does not need to be made dependent on income. That Mr Rutte makes it bigger than it is, I understand, because not only is the concern sweet to him, but also the health insurance companies are very sweet to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u92	It's all easy to talk about the switching costs and advertising costs of insurers. According to SP, they're always half a billion. Turns out this is 35 million. There's quite a hole in that if that's what you want to get your budget done. That's an amount that simply doesn't exist. If you expand the package on all sides, it just costs money. If you take away your own risk, it'll just cost you money. If you're not talking about it all, it all seems free. It is characteristic that the start of the care fund was passed on and that this led to disastrous numbers. It really showed what it meant to people. The plans as they are now are not calculated each time. Every time false stories are made as if they can. If Mrs Leijten says on the one hand that everything has to be transparent and on the other hand that hospitals have too many lists, that they have to record too much and that it is all wrong, then of course that is all easy talk for the stage. It doesn't make any sense. If you really like the care, then you have to stop this kind of easy talk, look at the facts and really have to work to improve care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u93	This too is a bit of a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u94	I keep getting the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u95	Does Mr Van Gerven have a question on a completely different subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u96	Yeah, I do. I note, moreover, that during this debate on the National Health Fund, the number of statements of support increased by 2.000 to 205.000. I would also like to thank Mr Rutte for that. That wasn't my question. It's about my contribution to dental care. I noticed two things in the preparation for the debate. Firstly, the number of children with early cavities in low-educated parents is a factor higher compared to children with high-educated parents. Secondly, we train 200 dentists every year. They're gonna get to work. However, 300 dentists retire every year. I would like to know from Mr Rutte what he intends to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u97	Those are two very different questions. The first question is about children with cavities. I, too, find that disturbing. It's actually very strange, because the oral care for children up to 18 years old is just in the package. I think parents make the wrong choice if they don't let their kids go to the dentist. That doesn't cost them anything. That should also be addressed by Mr Van Gerven. We share that concern. I think it is extremely important that children go to the dentist, because good teeth start at a young age. The question about the dentists requires a further analysis with each other. The cabinet also has ideas to give dental hygienists more responsibility. That could be part of the solution. We're still getting dentists from abroad. That too is part of the solution. I think we should try to put the whole puzzle together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u98	The Capacity Body calculated a few years ago that a large number of additional dentists had to be trained. That calculation has been ignored by the cabinet. All the representatives of the dentists indicate that it cannot go on, that there is a balding taking place in the country of the dentist and that we have to import more and more dentists from abroad, so to speak. Is it not a crucial starting point that we should be able to train our own dentists in a prosperous country like the Netherlands? This must, of course, lead us to increase our training capacity. In this way we can make sure that the number of dentists in the Netherlands is not reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mr Van Gerven and I have recently taken the initiative of a round table on oral care. We both see the importance of good oral care in the Netherlands. We share that with each other. The solution nevertheless needs some further analysis. If you don't have enough dentists structuralally, if you don't manage to get good dentists to the standards of Dutch care and if the shift from some parts of care to a well-educated dental hygienist is insufficient, if all of that is so, then you can certainly have to train. I do think that all these factors need to be weighed up. Then we need to see what's a good solution. The good news is that we will soon have a debate on this, also on our own initiative. So I am really prepared to look into that, after a more detailed analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u100	The SP has tabled an amendment to start dental training next year. Mr Rutte undoubtedly saw that. The SP considers this crucial because there is a link between the number of dentists in the Netherlands and the fact that dental care for adults is not in the package, which we believe should be. Parents give their children the example. When parents go to the dentist, the kids go. So you have to have enough dentists to keep children in check and be well supervised. That requires time and attention, and we also need extra dentists for that. Is the VVD prepared to support that amendment? And is she also willing to consider how we can bring dental care for adults back into the package in the future? In this way, the differences between highly educated and low-skilled in the field of dental care can be avoided. After all, we both know that good teeth are worth gold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u101	This is the Van Gerven/Jasper van Dijk amendment to item No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u102	Let's start with that last one. The oral care for adults has disappeared from the package in the time of the health insurance fund. That was well before the end of the sickness fund. Mr Van Gerven noted that teeth were deteriorating, particularly in low-educated patients. I do not think that trend has been fully engaged at that time. The problem is complicated. It's hard to figure out why one group of kids does go to the dentist and the other doesn't. I am not convinced that reducing oral care in its entirety is necessarily the solution. I'm willing to look into a more detailed analysis. The same applies to the amendment. I think that's a little early. I really want to talk about oral care in terms of substance first. We haven't done that in this house in years. When things come to light, we may have to take steps for the years to come. I think that the analysis of the SP on this point is a little too fast, but I do not rule out the fact that we should eventually take similar measures. I'm not sure about that right now, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u103	Can you finish, Mr Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u104	The VVD considers it important that care is and remains accessible to everyone. We think it's essential that healthy people look after people who get sick. As I have just been able to say during the interrupting debate, we do not think it is acceptable that the concern for income policy is being abused and that people who work hard simply decline. If we go down that road, there will come a time when healthy people no longer want to pay for people who are sick. That division is unacceptable to the VVD. It must not be the case that legitimate doubts about the affordability of care are being abused in order to trigger a revolution in the health care system, which brings health to the sick and does not improve care itself. On the contrary, we must continue to take measures that will enable us now and in the future to provide compensation for new therapies for all and thus preserve freedom of choice. We must ensure that good care remains available and affordable for everyone in our ageing society and that this care is organised as much as possible at home or close to home. We need to make sure that the quality of care is transparent and in order, so that you can really choose and know what you choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr. Chairman. Care is and remains human work. Technology is gaining control, but it is the nurses, the doctors, the caretakers, the pharmacists and the physiotherapists who do the work day in, day out. At the same time, they struggle through bureaucracy. They work under great pressure of time. Nevertheless, hospital care and care in the neighbourhood in the Netherlands are of a high level. The quality is good and that is due to those same people. When you talk to them, you hear that they are concerned about the functioning of the market in healthcare, the craziing demands of health insurance companies, the question of whether people still know how to find their way into care, the question of whether there can be more time to really worry and not to turn to production and whether all people have access to care. More and more people are getting chronic disease. People are often sick several times in their lives. Then the journey begins along the GP and the hospital. Then the conversations with the doctors begin and people are redirected to another hospital for a more specialist treatment. Not all people can find their way through that forest. They're wondering where they're supposed to be. They find it hard to remember what the doctor told them about the course of illness and the diagnosis. That is logical: 29% of Dutch people cannot understand and apply information about health or disease. So we're talking about millions of people. That's a hidden problem, especially in hospital care and nearby care. The CDA wants the Minister to make it possible to introduce wide-ranging healthcare buddies. They practically assist patients, so when finding their way into the forest of care and treatments. They are trained volunteers who are eye and ear for the patients, they are a stut and a support and have some sort of tomtom function. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. You will also notice that patients and doctors need to take more time for the conversation. It is a good thing that the Minister will make a compliment to her decision-making together possible widely in the care sector. However, the CDA does not think that this is enough: concern is also about dignity and quality of life. In the period when technology prevails in care, it is important to focus the concern of the future on the relational aspect and on meaning. The CDA would like to see mental counselling initiatives not limited to palliative care, but given wider scope for care. Would the Minister consider whether there could be a wider scope for structural funding for spiritual guidance in the care sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u106	The value behind the care buddy thinks the Labour Party is very good, because some people get lost in the system. Mrs Bruins Slot quite rightly said that. What is a bit of a puzzle for us is whether we are going to stick something to it and keep the system complicated, or whether the step should be to make it easier so that people do not need any more support. Isn't that the first step?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u107	It is always important, of course, to look at this with Mrs Bouwmeester to see if you can make the way in care easier. But when people in a conversation suddenly hear from the doctor that they have cancer... Figures show that only 40% of the information arrives. That never changes, and a care buddy can help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u108	The answer comes a little close, because you mentioned exactly an example in which this plays. Unfortunately, we have organized it in the Netherlands so that everything is in boxes. So if you get that horrible disease cancer, you get help from very professional and involved people. But the psychosocial side attached to it, for example in young people with cancer, AYA, is organized elsewhere. Then you need a care buddy to make sure you get that care, too. But shouldn't we go to the right conversation, understandable information, that people in one place get the help and support? Shouldn't that be the starting point? And if you're just vulnerable if you're sick for any reason, we can see how we can do that instead of doing something about it because the current system isn't working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u109	Of course it is important to invest very much in more space for the conversation. In the 2012 budget, I started with the dbc viewing and listening money, and I am very pleased that the Minister is finally going to introduce four years later, in broad terms, that there will be more room for discussion in the office. The other side of the story is that one in three Dutch people is struggling, apart from what that care looks like, to find their way into care, because it is complex and the questions surrounding illness are often complicated. That research shows that you don't solve this by working with a simpler care system. You can solve this more by giving people a stub and support: someone who can be eye and ear for them and who is better introduced into care. For that, the care buddy would be a nice step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u110	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u111	Yes, finally, I say that in cases a care buddy can certainly be positive, but that this also requires a culture change. It also requires good conversation, understandable information, an attitude and, above all, room for caregivers to do more than just that dbc. I think we'll find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u112	I don't think there's a difference either. The Erasmus MC has worked with co-patients, a kind of care buddy. It showed that patient satisfaction was enormous. People really felt they were being helped. The downside of that was that the health insurance company after a year it was an initiative of a health insurance company after saying: it's very successful; I don't finance it anymore. Then the hospital said it didn't have the money anymore. Although 90% of the patients said that it had worked fantasticly and although the health buddies, the co-patients, even after the disease was over, remained involved with those people themselves, obstacles in the system thus again stand in the way of good innovation. That is why I am saying on behalf of the CDA: should we not continue with this and can we arrange it here in the House of Representatives? Accessibility of care is not only the way to find it, but also the question of whether a bed is available at all. The CDA was therefore shocked by the letter of fire from the Dutch Association of Hospitals. Older people flood the emergency room. Despite the Minister's announcements, a solution is not yet close, but the Chamber has received another letter. This showed that the number of beds for vulnerable elderly people outside those hospitals is also too low. The Minister leaves the direction on this point too much to the field parties and leaves things as they are. The CDA would like an emergency plan for vulnerable elderly people to be put in place for each region, because older people are now falling apart. I would like a response from the Minister. The E.R. is not the only place in the care that people have to wait for their treatment. For two years there have been major problems with waiting lists in mental health care. Research is taking place to gain insight into those waiting lists. In the meantime, these people don't wait any less long. The CDA would like to see a game divider with perseverance per region. This has already been proposed in debates on youth care. In this case, this should be a representative of health insurers and healthcare providers who are authorised to place people with chronic and complex problems directly at institutions to receive care. How does the Minister feel about this? The end of the year is in sight. Hospitals, such as the Medical Spectrum Twente, but also the hospital in Drachten, Nij Smellinghe, have officially announced longer waiting lists. The CDA believes that patients should be helped on time and close to home by the end of the year. What can the Minister do to get this done? And how do people know that they choose an insurance policy that doesn't? After all, at the beginning of the year you choose with confidence: I am insured with that insurer, because then I can go to my favourite hospital. At the end of the year you suddenly come across the situation that this is not possible. How could people know that they are entitled to it? The CDA is deeply concerned about rising drug shortages. Since 2012, the number of medicines with temporary or long-term shortages has increased. In 2010, there were around 100 to 200 drug shortages. In 2016, that is almost 750; I hope we do not make it. The Minister has been talking for two years in the working group on drug shortages in order to find solutions. I am sorry to say that measures have not been taken or have hardly been taken. Those drug shortages are really a problem. For many patients, these deficits are much more substantial than the problem of expensive medicines. Sometimes shortages are easy to cope with, but in some cases vulnerable people need to be adjusted to another medicine; just think about thyroid medicine Thyrax in the past year. It really takes people six months to three-quarters of a year to get back to normal and get back into life on a daily basis. In some cases, there are no alternatives. That's why I made a pamphlet of drug shortages. It contains ten short-term measures to deal with drug shortages. This calls for joint responsibility and involvement of the Minister, the Health Inspectorate, the health insurers, pharmacists, pharmaceuticals and the wholesale trade. They really need to work this out with each other. I will briefly summarise the measures. Set up a critical drug list. In advance, draw up a list of medicines to prevent patients from switching to another medicine. Allow and actually impose heavy fines on pharmaceuticals and wholesalers, because that is not happening now. Make security of supply a part of the purchasing conditions. Insurers must make supply requirements for the entire period part of the calls for tenders. Make stocks of businesses and wholesalers transparent. Ensure reporting of shortages in parallel imports. Allow switching in case of a shortage of a preferred agent. Make imports easier in case of shortages. And make sure that the causer of the deficits also pays for the costs. I'd like to hand this over to the Minister. I look forward to her response to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u113	This is the second action house work that will end up with the Minister through the Chamberkeeper. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u114	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u115	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State. This Secretary of State is responsible for the policy of volunteers. Volunteers are the champions of the Netherlands. They deserve more appreciation and less unnecessary rules. I recently had a meeting with 30 representatives of voluntary organisations. We have discussed this with each other about what the volunteer of 2025 looks like and how we can ensure that volunteering in the Netherlands will continue to be strong in the coming years. During that meeting it appeared, among other things, that the law of association imposes unreasonable demands on the organisation of, for example, a sports association. Does the Secretary of State recognize this? Is he prepared to conduct a study into the flexibilisation of association law and the dissemination of ideas to deal more flexibly with the management of associations? After all, many associations have difficulty finding sufficient directors. The National Prevention Programme ends this year. This initiative by CDA and D66 has given a nice first start with 280 pledges. The Minister and the State Secretary have indicated that they will continue to subsidise some projects in the coming years. The CDA welcomes the investment in prevention, but considers this commitment insufficient. As far as we are concerned, the next minister must make prevention a top priority and, above all, an integral funding of prevention. My question is whether the Minister and the Secretary of State are prepared to consider whether a research facility can be funded to explore what is necessary to extend the concept of positive health in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u116	A quick question. Am I to understand that the CDA supports my amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u117	It is a good amendment by Mrs Dijkstra. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the coverage is solid, but my group is looking at this absolutely positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u118	Is that the amendment on positive health research?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u119	Yes, that is actually a complement to previous initiatives by CDA and D66 to arrive at a National Programme Prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u120	That is the amendment to item 18. The time for marketing will come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bruins Slot did that conveniently outside her speaking time. The last budget of this cabinet, for the first three months of 2017, you might say. Today it will be partly said how good care is in the Netherlands and partly that it has been demolished. I have also heard him say that the solution is the national health fund, whatever that means. In reply, the Secretary of State will admit that there are sometimes situations where things didn't go well, but "hey, call them and I'll go after them." What is the reality? There's a lot going well. Yes. Are things structuralally going wrong? Sure. But it would be wonderful if we could take a number of concrete steps here today. What do I mean? Carers are increasingly indicating that they are overburdened. That is why I am currently conducting conversations in the context of my memo 'Mantelzorgers', and I am going to go through the CDA fields to see if people recognize the problem, whether carers feel heard in the solutions that I propose and whether they are of any use to them. In any case, the position of carers must be better safeguarded and protected. The Wmo is such a legal swamp that this year the highest administrative judge was required to clarify the assistance to the household. What is the status of all those municipalities that had stopped using simple domestic help? Is there any need for, or a request for, social support that is now being examined everywhere, as required by the law? What about the municipality of Katwijk, for example? Within two weeks, the college had to indicate how they were going to do it. We've been weeks. This is completely agitated because last week it turned out that 1.2 billion remained on the municipal board. If you realize that more than 1 billion savings have been made on care, that is a total amount. Will municipalities amend their regulations and decisions and allocate them more widely, so that care money will be spent on care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u122	I should like to comment briefly on the family care which Mrs Keijzer rightly called attention to. There are a lot of concerns about the overload of carers. Does Mrs Keijzer, also on the basis of her tour, have the impression that municipalities are now making sufficient work of what we have already properly regulated in, for example, the Wmo? I am thinking here, for example, of issues such as the obligation for municipalities to draw up policies, the support for the kitchen tables, the inventory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u123	We have had discussions on this before. The Chamber has also adopted a motion from my hand on this matter, which states that carers can always be present at a kitchen table meeting, even if there is already independent customer support. It is, of course, a bizarre discussion that makes a municipality complicated when a caregiver comes along, but that has happened. And then there is another side, and it also comes up in my note on family care. When there is less professional care, this question of care naturally comes to the families and family members of someone who needs care. So that's where you see the overload. If you then combine that with municipalities that have 1.2 billion left, then something is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u124	Does Mrs Keijzer share my impression that there is still a great deal to be gained in practice if municipalities simply do what the law says and if, for example, they also look at the needs of carers in a kitchen table?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u125	When the Wmo was discussed, the CDA eventually voted against it, if only because it all went too fast, but then an amendment was tabled stating that a caregiver could indicate that no more professional care can be done, if it were otherwise to fall over the edge. That amendment was not adopted by the Chamber, and that is of course worrying, because that is precisely how you guarantee the caregiver. Now you often see the following in practice. Someone signs up for domestic help and is automatically referred to a general provision. The own contribution that is asked for if that person is slightly above the minimum level is the cost. If someone makes the assessment as to whether he can afford it, then he stops, and where does the question end up? With the family. So the Wmo's all right? Well, no. It's a legal swamp. There are still municipalities that think they're doing just fine when they have a general provision to which they refer everyone who gets help, regardless of whether people can afford it. That fact alone indicates how unclear that law is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u126	The Wmo means the Social Support Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u127	Does Mrs Keijzer agree with me that it is a pity that we should only look at whether we can make things better by means of amendments and legal rules, and not take the opportunity to find out if perhaps what municipalities are already legally obliged to offer is happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u128	I know Mr Van der Staaij as the constitutional conscience of this Chamber. I think he is wronging our work by saying now that we would not do the right thing by dealing with amendments and rules. We are the co-legislator and controller of the government. That means you're also looking at laws. We said right away that that law was not very well put together, and now we're also thinking about improvements. This also means that you check whether the State Secretary also addresses their obligations if this does not happen at municipal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr Van der Staaij, you are being addressed, so you can respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mrs Keijzer speaks to me and says that we are also co-legislators. I fully agree with that, but I often find it extremely regrettable if we take the step towards the approximation of laws and do not first work to find out whether what is already in the law is being implemented and implemented. We sometimes have more to do with actions that ensure that what we have already agreed is done, than with the idea that we are going to change the world by new laws or by changing laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u131	So I'll do both. I make proposals if legislation is inadequate, I ask written questions to the Secretary of State if municipalities do not comply with the law and I engage with council members and aldermen of the CDA House in order to improve the position of people in need of care and their families in all these areas. I will deal with their own contributions and their level. For middle income, the own contribution for general provisions is equal to the cost. Studies show that many municipalities do something, but this is limited to minima. The Vereniging Gehandippenzorg Nederland indicates that 60% of the institutions that are members indicate that clients refrain from support or use it less because they are no longer able to pay it. The own contribution is too high or the costs for transport can no longer be charged. Its own contributions have been set at the maximum by most municipalities. In total there is 1.2 billion on the shelves of the town halls. You can't explain this anymore, can you? Doesn't the Secretary of State think there's a connection between those two? The fact that so much money is left indicates that too little care is being provided and that too many own contributions are being made. Should this not result in a ceiling being set on the local authorities' own contributions under the previous Wmo, that there has, moreover, always been a ceiling in conjunction with those for general provisions? I'd like to hear a response. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De overhead bij gemeenten kan niet anders dan groeien.]] It was already clear at the time of the treatment of the Wmo that the implementation of the old law, which took place before 1 January 2015, required almost 10% of administrative costs. Can the Secretary of State tell us how much that is by now? We've all read Hugo Breast and Carin Gaemers' manifesto. It's a ten-point plan to improve nursing care. Today, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to give the initiators a response in which he passes the ten points and indicates which routes are under way and where measures still need to be taken. Of course, I would ask the Secretary of State to inform the Chamber so that we can proceed together in accordance with the first point of this manifesto. We do not believe that the reaction the Secretary of State gave when I believe he was in China, namely 'the care of the elderly is good', is sufficient. That is why we are asking this question today. I deal with the quality of the staff. Maybe it will be the biggest problem in care in the coming years. Can the Secretary of State say to the CDA Group whether there are enough nurses working in the care of the elderly both now and in the coming years? In the documents we read that expenditure on a nursing home is on average €80,000. Now a full-time nurse at MBO/HBO level for an institution costs around €44.000, we wonder if that fits. This is especially true now that older people who end up in a nursing home are increasingly in need of more and more care. Where do we get the time? Let me give you an example. During the final evaluation of the experiment, 700 rules were submitted which could be deleted. Let us abolish half of it, and then the one for which the Secretary of State is responsible. Then we will be able to spend a great deal of time taking care of the elderly. After all, they have taken care of that. Another thorn in the eyes of the CDA are the dysfunctional, gripping and sometimes even fraudulent drivers in the care. Should we not move towards a situation in which the prohibition of administration applies not only to bankruptcies, but much wider to care? In the Chamber, we have just had a debate on Alliade, where drivers are stinkingly rich, and I think you might say that they have become care payments. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. And last but not least, the General Measure on Accessibility, as a result of the ratification of the UN Convention on People with Disabilities. I can say that there is a great deal of anger and disappointment among the people involved. What's wrong? I have been working to find out what is in that regulation and in other regulations. I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. Is it true that all accessibility requirements in construction law are deleted as a result of the new Environmental Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u132	I would ask Members to listen or else to start their discussions in the process. Please continue, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So my question was: is this decision undressing the accessibility requirement in construction law? What about the accessibility of trains and buses? Is the plan still on the table for that? What about the recognition of sign language for the deaf? What about the reading function on Internet sites and the standard that is easy to implement? Why didn't the Secretary of State decide to tackle and develop specific topics, including a time horizon, in consultation with all organisations, such as Each one, MEE and the Patient Federation Netherlands, in order to create a feeling that it is not just paper, but that steps are actually being taken to achieve that accessibility? I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u134	As the last speaker for lunch, I now give the floor to Mrs Bouwmeester of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr. Chairman. We can be proud of the quality of care in the Netherlands. We can do more, we know more and we want more. Care improves every day. This is the case not only in the field of new technologies and treatments, but also in the area of appropriate care, understandable information in the case of far-reaching diagnoses and tools, which enables someone to lead a normal life. There's a lot of involved people working in care. We should be proud of them, because if our most precious property, our health, is at stake, then they are there for us, day and night. But it can always be better. Care can be very good quality, but not always in line with people's personal questions. Both patients and their relatives, but also caregivers occasionally go crazy with the rules, of the system, of the funding flow that is central, rather than the demand. What's it gonna take? It is necessary to put people's demand back at the centre, as well as the added value that care can offer them. That should be the starting point, so that people can always trust that they get the care they need and that suits them. But this system, the market system, is aimed at supply and demand, and at the rational consumer, who makes his choice on the basis of price and quality information. In that system, the care someone receives is based on a purchase contract from the health insurance company. The Labour Party believes that this can be much more humane. A change is needed, which makes the incentive go from maximum care to optimal care; where the demand of the insured person is not the final part, but the starting point and the beginning; where a health insurance provider not only pays attention to the cents, but above all to the insured person and the patients. And we have to go from competition to cooperation, because good care is what you do together. You'll only go faster, but together you'll get on with it. The PvdA would also like to join the new WHO definition of health: based on positive health. It looks at what a person can do, how resilient he is and what the added value of the care offered is. Just do what is necessary, where the patient's control and the equivalent dialogue with the healthcare provider are the starting point. That's how we set it up. In order to translate our principles into practice, a number of things are needed very concretely. I'll start with the right conversation. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the equivalent dialogue between a healthcare provider and his patient determines which care suits someone. We have pointed out for a number of years that there must be room and time for the good conversation, because that is the beginning of the relationship and the beginning of everything. We have asked for this for a number of years and last year I tabled a very concrete proposal together with my colleague Leendert de Lange of the VVD. Motions are not always fully implemented, but the implementation of this motion deserves a great compliment, not only to the Minister, but above all to the field. The field has joined forces. The healthcare providers and the patients' domes have said: we are going to make sure that the good conversation becomes a starting point again. The Minister made a big move by adding nine tons. That is a very important step forward. We are very interested in the concrete results that are being achieved in the shorter and longer term. In the right conversation, understandable information is very important. It has been said before: a lot of information that the patient gets in the office goes past him. That makes sense, because when you hear there's something about your most precious possession, your health, you're not a rational thinking person, you're an emotional person. That is why it is understandable that the Minister made the call to speak with the doctor. The Minister therefore felt the need, but we do not think that this is a structural solution. The need to record the call with your phone must be removed. The PvdA would like the starting point to be that in addition to the good conversation you get understandable and reliable information, which is repeatable and divisible and adapted to the health skills and situation of someone who hears that he is very sick. So you don't want to record the conversation, because half of it is lost because all gestures and non-verbal communication are not recorded. For a number of years we have been giving some examples of doctors who are very smart to think together with patients about targeted informing patients, such as doctor Oei, heart.volgers.org, treatmentbehoud.nl and monkey-nut-mies. I've mentioned them a number of times, so maybe the MPs are getting a little tired of me. I hear from the Chamber that no one gets tired of that; that is a good sign, because that means that the Chamber wants these good examples not only to remain examples of individual doctors, but that the good conversation and understandable information become the norm, because that is how you connect. I ask the Minister whether it is possible to include the 'understandable information' part in the nine-tonne programme. Good conversation and good information should be brought together with those hard-working doctors and healthcare providers who are now working on it. I'll come to the tools. If you have the right conversation and the right information, you come to care that suits someone. In some cases, that's a tool. However, there has been some error and there has been some mismatch. That's not malice, but we see that the purchase of a health insurance company, the bulk contract, is sometimes leading. That gives you the situation of one-size-fits-all. The tool manufacturer's earning model is sometimes more leading than the care someone needs. That is why we have a fundamental question for the Minister: is it a question of whether the insurer supplies the means for which he has made a sharp deal, or is it a question of whether a patient is given the tool that ensures him the best quality of life? Now a patient's choices have to fit into the care purchase contract of the health insurance provider. Control has thus become the final piece. That's exactly what sheds in this system. The question is, therefore, how can we force insurers to allow control and patient demand to be the starting point rather than the closing point? The legal task of care mediation must lie in what one's question is. We have to answer that question. The Labour Party believes that it contributes to the quality of life if you provide good care in good time. It also saves a lot of money, because unnecessary treatments are no longer needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u136	You mentioned understandable information to give to the patient and so on. Do you think it's okay that we make one-size-fits-all "choice body"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u137	We can have another discussion about that. You may say "choice body," but you could also describe it as "one product that needs to look after everyone." But I understand your call, Mr. Chairman. You have a very valid point. It's about customization and not about unity sausage. That is another variant, I would also say to the reporters of this piece. There is a good atmosphere in this Chamber, Mr President. It's also important to give that to the viewers at home. I'll come to the tools. Tools have to fit. We have an example of this, namely the glucose meter. There are 1.2 million people with diabetes in the Netherlands. 300,000 people use a glucose meter. Unfortunately, the disease is increasing. That's why more people need that device. But the fact that these 300,000 people all need a device doesn't mean that those 300,000 people are all the same. There's the unit sausage we were just talking about. The Dutch Diabetes Association has made quality standards in the context of the question of which devices are good. She has made a proposal: if a diabetes nurse with a patient looks at which device would suit him and they find a suitable device, then so will the patient. But now the health insurance company can overrule that choice. Think of a number of categories of certain types of people, such as a businesswoman, an older person, a younger person. If you're a diabetic, you need to be able to measure accurately all day. Those people from different categories all need a different type of device. Will the Minister ensure that they get it and that the health insurance company cannot overrule it? Another question follows on from that. It's about the blood pressure monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u138	But first, Mrs. Bruins Slot has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u139	I like the categorization of the type of people: young people, old people and business women. I don't know if the Minister can make policy on that. However, I have another question. I recognize the problem described by Mrs Bouwmeester. People do not get the right tools, while nurses indicate that they actually need another tool. Within the pharmaceutical sector, the concept of medical necessity is being used. But I understand that Mrs. Bouwmeester says you have to have different choices. Does this only apply to the blood glucose meter, or will it apply to all medical devices?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u140	I am very pleased with this question, because you actually want it to apply to all the tools. I'll explain with an example. I was in the LUMC this summer, as part of the Care Innovation Tour. There's a doctor there who deals with the treatment of people with renal failure. He said: I have a blood pressure monitor that allows people to measure their blood pressure at home; the data comes directly into my computer and the people at home via a secure connection and I can immediately see if the traffic light is red, orange or green and how they are doing. That doctor also said: if people can quietly measure their blood pressure at home at their own chosen time, the result is reliable and they immediately have the result, which also gives them peace, and saves their five visits every week to a hospital. So those are the advantages. Now you're gonna think a blood pressure gauge like that's pretty available. No, that meter is not freely available, because the health insurance company has a bulk purchase. So something that is better, which contributes to quality of life and self-direction, is not compensated. I would like to mention this example in my speech, but I have now mentioned it in response to Mrs Bruins Slot's interruption. We want it to apply to this too. Make sure that the added value of care or a tool is central and that it is not just the bulk purchase of the health insurance provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u141	As I understand it, Mrs. Bouwmeester wants to arrange this for all medical devices. Then all medical devices can be customised at some point. If the nurse and the patient agree that there is a medical need to do it differently, it will be arranged. How does Mrs. Bouwmeester intend to do this? What steps does the Minister have to take to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u142	I think you should go to a number of categories, because not everything is always possible. Then it's gonna be one big party, but you shouldn't have one. In this respect, we are thinking of the glucose meter, the blood pressure meter, but also of the diet preparation. We have tabled a proposal on the latter, together with the CDA, among others. This issue is also under discussion, because what is an appropriate diet preparation? We ask the Minister to come up with categories of people. In this way it can be determined which care suits who. Now a health insurance company could do it, but I would ask the Minister to ensure that this process is conducted. The "may" should be: the "must." So in a certain category, you have to get what you need. Then something about the difference between, for example, a businesswoman, a younger woman and an older woman. The question on this matter has lingered for a while. A child needs a different device, if you want to increase therapy loyalty, than someone who might have a bad vision, because they need big buttons. Of course, I do not allow Mrs Bruins Slot, but if anything happens to her, she might want a very small device that fits into her jacket pocket. That's what I mean when I'm talking about different types of people. I don't decide the categories. I leave that to the field, but let us look at it by category, precisely because the differences are so great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u143	The Minister set up various working groups at the end of last year. In fact, they must come up with solutions on the basis of categories of medical devices. Healthcare insurers are now at the table with patient associations and nurses to find a solution for each category of aid. How does Mrs Bouwmeester's solution relate to the work that the various field parties are now doing with the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u144	It's in the perseverance force. Now it's possible. There is a category where the health insurance provider could be associated with it. This means that the patient's question is not the starting point, because there is a bulk contract. We want this category simply to be determined that the patient gets what he wants. Suppose the Diabetes Association is working on all kinds of good things and in consultation with the patient indicates what people need. Then make sure those people get it. It must therefore become an obligation. That means less power for the health insurance company, but more power for patients. However, we must be careful to ensure that the patient's interests are also at stake and not all kinds of interests through the intermediary of the patient. The world of resources is a very complicated one. There's a lot of money being made. The margins are far too large. I think we should break through that. I have mentioned three examples: the blood pressure gauge, the glucose meter and the dietary preparations. With regard to the category of aids, I have another question about hearing aids. What if you have a hearing aid? You're with a certain health care provider, but you're switching. I've been told that you have to turn in your hearing aid and that insurance company B will give you a brand-new hearing aid because it has a contract with another supplier. I would ask the Minister to say that this is not desirable, it is very burdensome and it is a waste of money. Care that fits, of course, is not just about a tool. It's also about a tailor-made treatment. We've already talked about oncology. During the summer, the Chamber of Chambers decided on a pilot psychosocial care around cancer. There should be no separate cancer treatment, a tool and psychosocial care. It's about the total. I've also been in contact with AYAs, young people with cancer. They face all kinds of major issues, such as a home, a study, their fertility and the fact that their future is ruined. They'd like to be included in this pilot. What possibilities does the Minister see for this? We have already talked about the health insurance provider. A service provider contributes to care that suits you. The examples we have just given show that the health insurance provider sometimes does not take the patient as the starting point, but that the question becomes the final part. Health insurers are private, but we have often said that this does not mean that they can do whatever they want. It is our public money, which means that every day they have to run a step faster to earn their legitimacy. This is not about buying at the lowest price, but about the quality and service you offer. We have taken steps in recent years. For example, stricter rules have been put in place for the purchase of care. More conditions have been laid down for the transfer, for the policy and for the way in which the health insurance companies must serve their insured persons. Quality procurement has also been monitored and there has been a hotline, where people can go with complaints. We are not here yet, but we have taken really big steps to ensure that health insurers are increasingly behaving towards public morality. However, there are still a few things that need to be done. Let me start with the purchase. We all know that quality is not yet sufficient. Small steps are being taken, but as far as we are concerned, procurement can take place much more on services. It is not just about the quality of treatment; there are many more things involved. For example, some patients have lost hundreds of euros of parking money. Why doesn't the health insurance company send it there so you can't? I'm naming patients who don't get access to their files. Why doesn't the health insurance company make sure he stands up for his patients? Take patients for whom it is very important that they eat healthy, but who do not like the food at all. Why doesn't a health care provider send that over? So you get the whole of treatment and stay in a hospital that contributes to quality and that people don't cost too much money. I ask the Minister, in what way the NZa could take this into the market scan. Where is it good, where is it not, how is it and how can it be better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u145	The NZa is the Dutch Healthcare Authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u146	The Dutch Healthcare Authority, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u147	I see Mrs Leijten wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u148	Do it at the end. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u149	You want to wait a minute? I'm totally surprised. Please continue, Mrs. Bouwmeester.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u150	Another point concerns the provision of services to insured persons themselves. The health insurance company has a whole range of service tasks, which we are sad to say are not yet known to everyone. For example, we are talking about waiting-list mediation. I also mention information about caregivers. You should also end up with them if you get completely lost in the care landscape. Furthermore, I would like to mention help with payment. As far as we are concerned, a health insurance company could also call a patient: how are you doing, was the care good and did it meet your expectations? Now health insurance companies make a lot of advertising for the lowest price. I have found two health insurers who also advertise part of their services. I would like to ask the Minister: can the NZa see to what they are advertising? You can call it advertising, but I'd say mostly publicise the service tasks you have. Where are you doing okay? Where can we do better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u151	I'm a little surprised. The election programme of the Labour Party states that we want to get rid of market forces in the care sector, starting with health insurers. If I listen to Mrs Bouwmeester like this, the health insurers will have more tasks and they will have to advertise more. Well, that's a little contradictory, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u152	I didn't mention any more advertising. I said, "Give more publicity to..." Regardless of system discussions, a health insurance company must buy the best care. Then it's about content and quality. You need doctors and patients for that. They must also ensure that there is good service. What surprises us now is that a lot of patients complain about a lot of parking money and that they do not have access to their files. There are complaints about the diet. They're losing their way and they don't know where they're supposed to be anymore. I mention the story of the co-patient; Mrs Bruins Slot has already mentioned it. If the health insurance company is hired to provide the best care and services with our premium money, why not send them? Why is it quite normal for some hospitals to have to pay hundreds of euros of parking money? It's all about being a patient. The quality of care is of course number one, because if you are sick, you want to get better. If good nutrition contributes to this, it would be nice if a health insurance company says: we conclude a contract; we have had a little discussion with our insured people and this is what they want, so we include this in our contract. Moreover, you can reward the hospitals that do. That's the job of health insurance, no matter how you organize it. We want insurers to do more about it and we want them to be seen to happen. The good health insurers who do it must be rewarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u153	If you stop running the market, you stop advertising and that kind of thing. That's all in the election program. There will be a ban on advertising and marketing activities for basic insurance. This contradicts what Mrs Bouwmeester says here and asks the Minister. I am very curious to see which Labour Party we are dealing with here. Are we dealing with the Labour Party in this cabinet, which is okay with the health insurance companies competing with each other for the benefit of an insured person? Or are we dealing with the Labour Party which says: we have to go to one policy and there is no competition at all on basic insurance? That is what it says here, and that is indeed a system change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u154	I understand that Mrs Leijten is so eager to talk about her own plan that she doesn't hear what I'm saying. We say: no matter how you organize it, we now have a situation in which purchasing is not yet sufficient on quality and service. So whoever does it needs to make that cover. That's one. Two is, people need to know that they can go to a health insurance company, no matter how you organize it. We ourselves are in favour of a regional approach. I note that the changeover circus in recent years has only been advertised at the lowest price. My proposal is that much more publicity is given to the service provider and how it can help you, how it can become your ally in the ultimate case. As far as we are concerned, you need to organise it differently, but let's not talk about the organization. The point is that the people who have to do it do it better and that there are more people to do it, that the focus will be on that. I think that's a service for insured persons, which I'm sure you agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u155	I listened very carefully to Mrs Bouwmeester.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u156	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Mrs Bouwmeester said what you agree with. I do not agree with anything in this position. So, through the chairman, please. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u157	Mr President, I listened very carefully to Mrs Bouwmeester. She makes the proposal that not the health insurance company decides which glucose meter you get, but that the patient can do it himself. It notes that health insurers do not buy on quality, but only look at the price. It notes that they are only competing on the price, whereas they should be more service. Then, after ten years of health insurance and ten years of market operation, she does not draw the conclusion that we may not need them at all. That confuses me so much, because in her election programme she suggests it. It says in its election programme: we want to get rid of market forces, starting with health insurers. If you argue here that they should not advertise at the lowest price and should publicise the service, that is, of course, advertising and that does not fit in with your electoral programme. So what is the view of the Labour Party on the future position of health insurers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u158	Your question is clear. Mrs. Bouwmeester.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u159	Or are we gonna step down from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u160	It's nice that you ask the question again, because then I can tell our story again. The point is that the purchase of care... No, wait. Let me start over. We have a lot of patients in this country, and those patients all need care. They can't buy for themselves on their own, so you need an organization for that. As far as we are concerned, I am happy to say this for the third time now, because you can arrange it regionally, because you can then send care that suits the people in a region. Somebody's gotta do that. Someone's got to go shopping. Regardless of whether it's a private person or someone from a private organization or private: someone has to do that. I've just indicated what that buy-in is to meet. These are concrete improvements. The proposal of the SP is, for a moment in metaphor: transfer all health insurance companies to one organisation, so say all care goes to the Social Insurance Bank, and that all goes well at once. I happen to have read seven reports from the General Court, all of which state that if we change the system, we will spend ten years working on all sorts of rules and stuff, while no one knows how to find the way. No employee is involved in purchasing on quality; no employee is involved in services; no employee has time to help a patient who is lost, and no employee is still concerned with the essence of the concern, namely cooperation. They're all reorganizing, moving, getting new phone numbers, e-mails, getting new stuff. This still separates from the 4.5 billion that this costs. However, we say: take small steps now, which can have a very great significance in people's lives. Let me give you another example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u161	Do you want to be brief about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u162	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Of course we can say: everything is sorrow and torment. However, we note that a number of steps have also been taken within this system and we are going to take a number of further steps as far as we are concerned. We are not going to reorganise it all, we are not going to create new rules and bureaucracy, but we are going to make sure that proposals are made that can improve tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mrs Leijten, your last, brief, interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u164	Mrs Bouwmeester just said I hadn't listened to her, but Mrs Bouwmeester doesn't listen to our alternative either. It's okay. You can make a caricature out of that. But when I see the election programme of the Labour Party, it says: there will be regional health insurers who are public. Do you know what the Central Planning Office says about that? That says: that is a change in the system and appreciates that at the same cost that Mrs Bouwmeester is currently putting in the shoes of the national health fund. It is therefore also proposing a change in the system. She says that the national care fund cannot, but she also proposes a change in the health care system. I think that's a little crazy. If we're both saying that those health insurance companies aren't doing what they're supposed to do and that that competition and market forces aren't what we thought, why don't we just hang out together? Mrs Bouwmeester continues to trivialise and ridicule our proposal, while actually proposing the same thing. That's a very unfortunate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u165	Oh, there's been a very big misunderstanding here. The Labour Party and the SP do not propose the same thing at all. Absolutely not! We have the same values. We want care to be about the good conversation again, about cooperation and to come to quality of life together. However, the SP proposes a system change that lasts ten years, which costs a lot of money, with a lot of rules and bureaucracy and with a lot of confusion and confusion. The SP also talks about "the system." In my entire contribution, I invite Mrs Leijten to listen back or watch them again. I have always talked about people, about connection, about concrete steps in the workplace, making it a lot better every day and preferably doing new things tomorrow. We are not in favour of this system. We voted against that ten years ago. I also said that despite this system, we have taken a number of steps forward in this cabinet. So there really is a big difference between the SP and the PvdA. At the SP it is never good enough, but the Labour Party fights every day, together with people, to make it a step better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u166	I hear a whole plea from the PvdA about health insurers who need to be transparent about their procurement and about agreements that need to be public and verifiable. Last year, the PVV tabled the following motion: "noting that health insurers indirectly restrict the right to care when purchasing care; considering that greater attention is needed to transparency in care procurement policy and that agreements should be public and verifiable; calling on the government to make the conditions for the purchase of care public'. Then why did the PvdA vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u167	Becomes filing this motion...Sorry, this is an automatism. Mrs. Bouwmeester.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u168	Here too, we have said: go ahead and steer the quality of the purchase. So basically, we're all in agreement. We have also tabled a motion on this, along with, I believe, Mrs Bruins Slot. That motion has been passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u169	In essence we agree, but meanwhile the PvdA simply votes against all PVV-motions that the PvdA simply agrees with. Tell the truth, then, that political games for the PvdA are more important than content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u170	If we agree, I think that is a good conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u171	Usually in politics, when you agree with each other, you support a motion. Then you're not going to vote for political couples, for cordon sanitary reasons against motions that you support and which you agree with. That's what Mrs. Bouwmeester says now. But the PvdA does, because games are more important than content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u172	My whole speech is about content, it is about people and it is about creating new connections. Last year we tabled a substantive motion on what incentive to build in to ensure that health insurance companies buy more on quality. I think I filed it with Mrs Bruins Slot. We have drawn them up in such a way that it did justice to what seemed to us to be the best proposal. Then you choose. There may be 100 motions, but we have chosen quality. It was a qualitative consideration in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u173	You had begun to conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u174	I've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u175	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u176	The change to a service provider also includes the change to a service and active supervisor. There too, steps have been taken. The Health Department has a National Health Department where you can deal with complaints about quality and the NZa has a hotline where people can go if they have complaints about a health insurance company or if the purchase is not going well. We believe that very good steps have been taken, but we are not yet there. Indeed, we still see patient stops being proclaimed when hospitals and health insurance companies are in the clinic with each other. I call Medical Spectrum Twente, Nij Smellinghe and the Sionsberg. We also see that the NZa will not come to the table until there is a dispute. What possibilities does the NZa have to sit at the table more in front of the process? Can the Minister promise that there will never, ever again be a patient stop as a health insurance company and a hospital arguing with each other? I come to the point of accessibility. Accessibility also has to do with affordability. We notice that there are many different arrangements regarding the payment of healthcare costs and that there are many more compensation options. Those two don't match anymore, they don't find each other anymore. We ask the Minister whether it is possible to set up a central point for each municipality where people can go who have questions about the payment of healthcare costs in any form, so that they get help and avoid care. I'm rounding up. This is my last budget. I'm almost ten years old in the House of Representatives. I would like to thank everyone who has worked so hard and faithfully in the budgets all these years, who has invited me to work visits or who has been involved in making and strengthening proposals. I owe them a lot. I have become a Member of Parliament for people to ensure that patients receive the best care and that caregivers can provide it. Without the help of all these people, it couldn't have happened. This is the way I want to thank everyone for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u177	I would like to say to Mrs Bouwmeester: you will stay until 15 March, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u178	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u179	I have one more question about the matter before us. You say that there are all kinds of arrangements to reduce the financial thresholds that are being raised. The Minister says there's no such thing as a lack of care. Its own risk leads to care-avoidance. That's what GPs say and everyone else who's involved. The nurses at the hospital that I consulted also noted it. However, the Minister says that there is no such thing as a lack of care. I read your election program. The PvdA eliminates its own risk. She says there should be no financial thresholds. She also notes that there is a lack of care. Does the Minister have a clear view of the consequences of his own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u180	Thank you for this question, because it allows me to deal with a few points. Of course, I'm gonna be a member of the House of Representatives until I'm not here anymore. That's reassuring. We're gonna deal with a nice bill together. I do not need to defend the Minister, but I always hear her say: there is no need for care, because there is compensation. We agree with the Minister, but this compensation cannot always be found. We say: match that with each other, so that care avoidance really doesn't happen. After all, it is a shame that people consider avoiding care if there is compensation. That is the solution for the short term, this year, here and now. You are right, in the long term you can make the whole compensation circus redundant by eliminating your own risk. That's why it's in the election program. I am very proud that this has been calculated and that the experts say: the PvdA has found good cover for it. So I'm proud of that, which is why I wanted to emphasise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u181	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u182	Anyone who eliminates their own risk will have to cover that. This will soon be passed on to the Central Planning Bureau. That's what's gonna happen to us. I'm surprised, though. In the past I was told that there was no care avoidance due to one's own risk. The Labour Party always argued that, if so, it would be undesirable. She had the minister investigate where it was found that there was only 3% care avoidance at the GP, where there was no own risk. There were studies in which precisely the vulnerable incomes were not investigated, so you couldn't actually draw a legitimate conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u183	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u184	The Labour Party always said: there is no problem with its own risk. Now Mrs Bouwmeester finds that there is. I think that is right, because the consequences are there, but they are not being investigated. I find it striking that Mrs Bouwmeester continues to defend the Minister. When it comes to affordability, my next question would be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u185	This is quite an argument. You can keep that in the second term. What is your specific question to Mrs Bouwmeester? Time goes on and there are other people who need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u186	What does the Labour Party think of the Zorginstituut Nederland's proposal to stop paying for heavy paracetamol, minerals and vitamins, because people could pay for it themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u187	I have heard a whole speech and a question. First of all, I would like to say that Mrs Leijten's analysis is not entirely correct. We have always said that avoiding care is undesirable. We all do. I almost dare put my hand in the fire that no one wants people to stop going to the doctor. Sometimes that seems to happen for all kinds of reasons. My analysis is that there is a lot of compensation for healthcare payments, but that people cannot always find them. Some people just let that worry go because they don't know they can get the money back. So that is very undesirable. So the analysis is that supply and demand don't come together. The people who need it don't come together with the compensation. So you're gonna have to do something about that now. Our party says not in ten years, but now. That is why we have now proposed to the Minister to ensure that there is a place in every municipality where people can go with concern and wherever they are referred. Municipalities already have an income counter or a WMO counter. This can be bundled. If they e-mail Mrs Leijten's party, she can say: that is the point in the municipality, you can be helped there, so there is no need to avoid care. That's the first answer. I am of the very concrete solutions, together with people. The second point is that you can make the whole compensation circus redundant if you eliminate your own risk. That's the long-term solution. Apparently, there's a proposal on heavy paracetamol and vitamins. I don't see the medical need for everyone to pay for vitamin C. I don't know exactly what heavy paracetamol is. Let me take a look at my colleague, Mrs Volp, who is a general practitioner. That has to do with more active substances, I think. The Chamber's already noticed that I don't know exactly what medication it's about. We must be very critical of what is and is not in the package. Everything you throw in costs money. With everything you get out, you can do other things. I will have to look at the proposal well, well balanced. At first sight, I wonder what the usefulness of vitamin C is in the basic package.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u189	That's not the point of the opinion. So you support the cuts...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u190	Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor. Mrs Leijten, I told you it was your last interruption. You should take a little for granted that the debate is being led.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u191	I'd like to respect you, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u192	It's not about me. It's about the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u193	I hear Mrs Leijten say between the nose and the lips that I therefore support the proposal. I think I indicated that I do not know the proposal and that I am responding to the first thing I can think of. I am trying to meet Mrs Leijten. I can't be for or against a proposal I don't know. I think that's important for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u194	That's clear. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u195	I want to talk about a whole different subject. A few weeks ago, I stood with Mrs Bouwmeester in the presentation of a petition on breast-feeding. Mrs. Bouwmeester was very enthusiastic about that offer. As a committee, we requested a response from the Minister. I am very curious to know what the Labour Party thinks of the Minister's reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u196	Now I'm gonna go crazy. I don't know the Minister's reaction. I have some ideas about that myself, but that wasn't the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u197	Maybe that's something for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u198	I would very much like to talk to the Labour Party about this. I am indeed aware of Mrs Bouwmeester's enthusiasm for breast-feeding and its importance. In fact, the Minister's reaction to my group is rather disappointing. I would very much like to give Mrs Bouwmeester the opportunity to look at it. Let us consider in the second term whether we can come up with a joint proposal to ensure that breast-feeding and breast-feeding, in particular, are accessible to all women.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u199	So that comes in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u200	We received a letter two weeks ago from a lot of different organisations of healthcare professionals about interpreters in the care sector. I'm sure Mrs Bouwmeester read that letter. They indicate that it is important for people who are just in the Netherlands that the interpreters are reimbursed when they have a conversation with a healthcare professional. Mrs Dijkstra and I have tabled an amendment to that effect. I have previously been able to work with Mrs Arib and Mrs Wolbert on this issue. What does it take to get the name of Mrs Bouwmeester under that amendment? I assume that she too thinks that people who are just in the Netherlands should be able to get an interpreter and an interpretation fee when they need to have a conversation with a healthcare professional.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u201	You are now talking about the Voortman/Pia Dijkstra amendment to item No. 13, which has been tabled to replace the Voortman amendment to item No. 12?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u202	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u203	I also had that point open under the heading on accessibility. I therefore thank Mrs Voortman for this justified question. We think that the good conversation is an important starting point for getting people to care, but you must be able to understand each other. So if there's a language barrier, you have a big problem. I would like to know from the Minister until when the interpreters will be reimbursed. When will this happen and when will it not happen again? I understand that it is possible for hospitals, but not for general practitioners. So when is that not possible for these people anymore? What innovative applications are there? I also understand that not everyone uses or wants to use the interpreter phone. If there are other applications, then that's very good. My starting point is that you have to do what works. I also have to look at the coverage of Mrs Voortman's and Mrs Dijkstra's amendments, because we do not think it is a good idea, for example, to cover this from training costs. I want to take a very serious look at that. I read the letter from the IGZ saying that she finds this vulnerable. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u204	The IGZ is the Health Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u205	I thank Mrs Bouwmeester for her response. It therefore also recognises the importance of people being able to understand their health care provider. That is what this is all about; that is the goal. So the question is no longer whether but how we are going to ensure that this will happen; I am pleased about that. I would ask Mrs Bouwmeester to give a concrete indication of where she thinks it can be paid out. It is very nice to talk about innovation and other amenities, but ultimately, of course, there must be money. If it can't get out of here, where can it get out? I ask Mrs Bouwmeester to be specific about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u206	I have put a number of questions to the Minister because I do not know exactly what all the possibilities are. The method with an interpreter phone is quite classic and you can just calculate it for that, but with a lot of other applications you can't do that. I understand that not everyone wants to use the interpreter phone by definition either. So I'd like to know from the Minister what's going on, what's going on, and above all what's going on. What's left and what do you have to do next? For us, that good conversation is the starting point and then you must ensure that it can always take place. That is where we find each other for sure. I am pleased that Mrs Voortman is so persistent, because indirectly she has been saying for years that the good conversation should be the starting point, and I share that with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u207	Among other things, the PvdA election programme states: "We want to control the costs of expensive medicines and limit the power of the pharmaceutical industry." One of the measures proposed in this context is: "We recalculate the limits of medicinal products and adapt the law on medicinal products." Since 2013, there has been an initiative law of the PvdA to amend the Drug Prices Act. That could save 250 million. Why is that still on the shelf? Why hasn't the proposal been defended here yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u208	That's a sensitive point. Our loyal and loyal collaborator who sits in the back of the room, whose name I cannot mention, has spent a great deal of time and energy together with a number of Members of Parliament. That bill came in the name of Tunahan Kuzu. He has left our group and as a result this bill is no longer from the Labour Party. That's what makes it complicated. We would have liked to have done nothing more than submit this bill to the Chamber as quickly and as well as possible, but this has made it a little more complicated; I simply admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u209	I think Mrs Bouwmeester forgets that her colleague Otwin van Dijk took over that bill and that that bill was therefore from the Labour Party. So there's a bill on the shelf. The Labour Party has the opportunity to submit and defend that bill and there is also a majority for it, but the Labour Party has been doing nothing for three years. Next, the election programme says that something must be done. Why not now table, defend and ensure that we can save 250 million on the pharmaceutical industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u210	Of course we do, and we're gonna do it right away. I can give you a short or a long answer. I'll save you a long answer. Tunahan Kuzu is there, too. He is, by the way, the one who can throw that law right through the Chamber and do the answer. So maybe it's a question for him, too. You're just right. Then Otwin van Dijk joined us. He's been digging into it, but it's getting a little annoying. He's gone, too. But the key point is that input has been provided by a lot of parties. Those insertions were super technical and very complicated. If we have to make that law with little support, it'll take a very long time. The sooner that law can go in and out of the Chamber, I'm also looking at Tunahan Kuzu, whose name is in the front, under that bill, the better: to do it in particular. You say that there is an initiative legislative proposal, that this is not yet the Chamber's proposal and that this point is in our electoral programme. That's right, because we still want it. You are impatient, and you are absolutely right about that. I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u211	I think I have a lot of patience, because I think we contributed in 2013 and now it is the end of 2016. The PvdA group is quite large and has quite a lot of support. So I really don't understand why it has to take so long. The Labour Party now has the majority in the Chamber and can arrange it. You can put it in your election program, but why don't you just take care of it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u212	Finally, without any technical explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u213	It's been a whole process... there's been some changes. I'm gonna leave the whole thing out of it. I am pleased that Mrs Klever supports the initiative. I share her impatience. I agree with everything that can be done to get it through the Chamber as soon as possible, our current spokesman is Joyce Vermue. I think she's also eager to do it, so let's get our hands together and see what else is possible. Thank you for this justified encouragement. It can mean a lot of good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u214	Let me take a look at Mr Kuzu of the Kuzu/Öztürk Group. Anything else he wants to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u215	It's about his law. Come on, quick!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u216	A factual point: the first signatory is the Labour Party. This means that the Labour Party is carrying the initiative legislative proposal. We are, of course, cooperating fully in order to achieve this as soon as possible. I therefore welcome Mrs Bouwmeester's appeal. We'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u217	If we're both delivering an employee, it'll have to be arranged very quickly. I'm just gonna make a quick deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u218	I think you'll have to settle that between yourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u219	Then that initiative bill can get through quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-3.u220	There's a list of incoming items on the Registrar's table. That list contains proposals for the examination of these documents. If there is no objection to this before the end of the sitting, I assume that it will be accepted.
