ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u1	I welcome the initiators in trade union K, as well as their support: Mr Carsten Zwaaneveld, Mr Leon Verstappen, Mr Wouter Burgerhart and Mr Bart Breederveld. And, of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice, who is acting tonight as an advisor to the Chamber. It remains for me to say that Mrs Helder cannot take part in this evening's debate because of illness. We are now ready for the response of the initiators. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. I, too, would like to begin with a word of thanks. Mr Dijkgraaf said it in the first term: it is very special for a new Member of Parliament to be in trade union K. I am thinking in particular of the expertise and expertise behind me and the support we have received from these people throughout the process. I am also thinking of the work of my predecessor, Mrs Berndsen, who has been here in the first hour and has been at the cradle of this bill with the co-authors. Many thanks to Magda Berndsen. Unfortunately, she couldn't be here tonight. Before I start the answer, I have a few more words on the layout. There are three of us here for the answer. I will start with an introductory block, in which I will also discuss the collection of questions under the theme "self-employed partners." Afterwards, Jeroen Recourt will answer questions about the position of the woman, the reasonable remuneration from the company and the protection against creditors. I summarize this under the heading "protected partners." Finally, Foort van Oosten will answer the questions about administration and premarital property, as well as the varia. Finally, I would like to say that we have answered the cases and the numerous written questions put by the CDA in writing prior to this continuation of the debate. Can you tell me how to raise the rostrum, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u3	We'll make sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Whoever marries in the Netherlands automatically shares everything he or she has; not only what one gets together or loses during marriage is of the husbands together, but also all their premarital wealth and debts. There has been a lot of criticism. The law makes what is naturally private so common, at least, which is felt to a great extent and increasingly as such. Self saved wealth from the years before the relationship, debts of which the other may not know or inheritances: it is now standard in the community. That leads to conflict. The parents of one death during the marriage, the other after the marriage. One has to share his inheritance and the other doesn't. For many, that feels very unfair. So here lies a task for the legislator to better align the law with what is perceived as just. With more private assets and a less strong position of creditors, the legislative proposal also responds to the desire to better protect one spouse from creditors of another by reducing the legal status of creditors to normal proportions. That brings me to some of Mrs Van Toorenburg's questions. She briefly asked whether this bill was necessary. My answer will not be surprised: that is a short and clear yes. She also asked about the justification of the bill. In her opinion, it was hardly present. I'd argue with that. In the explanatory memorandum and in the reply to both reports, we have explained very comprehensively why this legislative amendment is necessary. I'll start with the current practice. Nowhere is the main system of the law as often corrected as in the Netherlands. Just look at the prenup here, which makes people deviate from the legal system. As many as 25% to 29% of the newly married couples enter into that prenup. The exclusion clause, which keeps legacy from the community, is almost standard in wills. Moreover, surveys and polls show that the current system is rejected among wedding lovers. Legal practice also almost unanimously agrees with the substance of this bill. Finally, the Netherlands is an international misfit at the moment. Enough reason for the assumption that an amendment of the law is urgently needed. Mrs Van Toorenburg also had a few questions about the representativeness and relevance of the sources cited. First of all, I would like to take away a misunderstanding. The research of Network Notaries has been conducted over the internet among couples with wedding plans. So it wasn't just held among visitors of the notary. On the contrary, the intention was broad to test practical experience against the wishes and expectations of the upcoming marriage partners who do not make the way to the notary. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked about the reports we quoted. Those reports were detailed in the explanatory memorandum. They came from 2002, because they were the basis of legislative proposal 28867, which also proposed to restrict the community of goods. That is more or less the predecessor of this bill. It just didn't make it. These reports are therefore from 2002, but the limitation that we are proposing and which was also included in the first legislative proposal is still not there. Although those reports are a little older, they're certainly not out of date. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Dijkgraaf also asked questions about legislative proposal 28867. They asked what is so much different or better about our bill that is on the table today. That earlier bill didn't come, like I said. When comparing these two, first of all, there is a general remark. Everyone has noticed in or after 2008 that things were getting worse economically, and not just here. Making the reverse side of wealth together is thus much more obvious: whoever gets into debt, the husband unwittingly withdraws from it. This bill protects partners against these debts in a number of ways. Jeroen Recourt comes back to that in his block about protected partners. I also saw Mr Van Nispen's question, which focused on the suspicion of evidence. Foort van Oosten will deal with this in his part of the reply. Mr Dijkgraaf specifically asked whether it was careful to put the property rights back on the agenda so quickly. In view of the ongoing social debate and the increased formation of composite families, and also the high number of prenuptial conditions and exclusion clauses, it seems to me very justified that we should be back here today to discuss this bill. Another related topic was the community of fruits and income. Mr Segers asked questions about this, because a legislative proposal was tabled in 2012 and assumed that it was precisely the abolition of the community of fruits and income that led to this. He asked how the two legislative proposals relate to each other. He pointed out that that community of fruits and revenues would have been a tragedy for lawyers and notaries. We do not know at all that that would have been a tragedy. The practice doesn't mention that. So we do not recognize that statement either. Finally, this block is of course about the vision of marriage. That is a fundamental issue. There has been a lot of talk in the first term about the ties of fate that partners enter into when they marry. Mr Dijkgraaf specifically asked for this. In the case of a few other Members, I believe, among others, that Mrs Van Toorenburg's report was a critical one on this subject. I fully agree with my honourable colleagues when they stress that marriage is more than a business commitment. Ideally, marriage is a bond for life from the moment it's concluded. Fortunately, this is still the case with the majority. However, the initiators seem to disagree with the questioners as to whether such link should have retroactive effect. As far as we are concerned, that is not the case. Anyone who thinks otherwise, and that may be because of religious motives, may go to the notary and is free to opt for a full community of goods by prenup. I'm getting to the second block. It's about independent partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u5	I see that Mr Dijkgraaf has a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u6	Yeah, 'cause otherwise, if it goes on like this, we're gonna be done pretty soon. That would be a shame, too. The reasoning that you can go to the notary if you want to marry in community of goods, you could of course also turn around. If people want what the initiators propose, they go to the notary and they arrange it. According to my data, virtually no one chooses the specific form for which the initiators choose. What does that say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u7	The initiators consider that what is contained in the current proposal, that limited community of goods, is in line with what the greatest common denominator wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u8	I'm not very expert in this field. Yeah, they're colleagues. When I ask professors what model is chosen, they don't say: it's fantastic that this model is now in the law. I see all kinds of other models that are then chosen. Then why was this very specific model chosen, in which the premarital property does not count, but the assets that were collected during the marriage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u9	This particular model is not just one of the models, because it has been extensively presented through samples of network notaries, the NIPO survey and so on. They can also be found in the explanatory memorandum. At that time, it was found that this form of limited community of goods is best suited to what people want. The essence of it is that inheritances are excluded from that community, but also that one does not want to share the premarital property when it comes to divorce.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u10	Mrs. Swinkels says that if people choose community of goods, then so be it. You can arrange that with the notary. What is fair about imposing a fine on that choice, more or less, in relation to notary costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u11	You call it a fine, but the initiators are convinced that it fits in with what most people want. All these polls have shown that. The moment you want something else, you're free. Then you can go to the notary. It's actually a very simple change. You can sort it out with one rule, so to speak. The notary then writes down that one rule. So it's not that complicated, and it's not precious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u12	70% now marries in the community of goods. That's more or less the normal course of things now. If you want to settle that, you're gonna have to pay extra costs in the future. Mrs. Swinkels represents a liberal party. Then why doesn't she choose real freedom of choice and say: the choice is up to the couple at the counter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u13	Mr Segers refers to his amendment, which introduces a choice system. That choice system can only exist when you have a standard in the law. According to the initiators, this standard in the law must comply with what most people think is a good arrangement for their marriage. The NIPO surveys and the survey of Network Notaries have shown that one would rather not share inheritances when it comes to divorce. Nor do we want to share the premarital property and, above all, the debts if it comes to divorce.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u14	Now Mrs Swinkels says that if you opt for a choice system, that is indeed what Mr Segers' amendment is about, co-signed by Mr Dijkgraaf and myself, you must have something in the law, in the form of a legal standard. The interesting thing about the choice system is, in my opinion, that there are two legal standards that people can choose from. The advantage of this is that people who do choose that lot connection, who find it reasonable that all of them are together and who do not want that individualization, do not have to make those costs for the notary. What's unreasonable about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u15	There is a choice, as you rightly say. The choice system that you and Mr Segers advocate in your amendment is in the interests of good information to the partners who have to make the choice. You can't do that information in writing. It's not taken care of right now. It means that people have to go to a notary to be advised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u16	Well, that's crazy. If the argument is that information is not properly regulated and people have to go to the notary, what does that say about the current situation? The current situation is that people do not seem to receive proper information. He's not here now. They fall back on a system of which they often do not know at all what its consequences are. If you want to take care of something else, you have to go to the notary. The interesting thing about the choice system is that you will have to organise a form of information so that people can make a rational choice. Can I have a reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u17	You can only make a choice if you are well informed. Right now, there's an automatic system in the law. The only thing our proposal does is limit the legal standard to the basic system that you simply need. You can't force people to choose. It may be that people do not want to choose and leave it to the law, as is happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u18	A choice cannot be made because the official would then have to advise on what to do. I think that puts an official in a very strange position. That means that everyone has to go to the notary for information. Is that right? Is the consequence when you give people the freedom of choice that you put the civil servant in a very difficult position? The result is that everyone has to go to the notary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u19	The proposers believe that you cannot leave information on the choice system, as advocated by the Christian Union and the SP, to an official of civil status, who is trained for marriage and the preparation of documents. That's not a legal adviser like a lawyer or a notary. Maybe I was a bit out of my mind and that led to confusion with the SP. Information must be properly provided. One must be able to make a deliberate choice. Those who advise should be able to do the same. An official to whom you must let know what you want prior to marriage cannot take on that advisory function. He wasn't trained to do that. So you will necessarily end up with the notary. In the system proposed in the amendment, everyone must first go to the notary in order to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u20	I welcome this comprehensive explanation. This actually indicates the impossibility of a choice system. You were gonna put the official in an impossible position, and you can't do that at all. The consequence is that almost everyone has to go to a notary, because they want good information. We shouldn't want that. I'd like to be confirmed once again that my reasoning is correct. That is why the initiators are against a choice system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u21	The initiators don't want to send everyone to the notary before they get married. That would lead to a lot of bureaucracy and much more cost for a large majority of the population. That is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u22	I think it is a very special argument. According to the proposers, everyone would like the proposed system. But if there is a proposal for genuine freedom of choice from the Chamber, this must fit in with the maze of the initiators. That's a weird argument. It seems to me purely to embrace this proposal, unless there are real objections to it. That's my question, too. The only objection so far is that it doesn't fit in with the initiativers. That is a bit of a special reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u23	The initiators have frequently surveyed what fits the will of the majority. Then you end up with the limited community that is being proposed now. Force your people to make an explicit choice, then you also force people to provide themselves with legal advice. That advice can only be given properly by a notary, and with that you are chasing people at a cost. It actually makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u24	No, it's very illogical. When you look at what people really want, you come to the conclusion that more than 70% are married in the community of goods. Those are the facts. That's the choice people make. In the new system that is no longer allowed and then we are forced to go to a notary if we want to marry into a community of goods. There is now a rather interesting amendment to make people really choose. That's liberal and free. Then it's suddenly unacceptable because it doesn't fit into the picture of the initiators. It remains a very special argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u25	The fact is that many people in the Netherlands are married in the community of goods because this is the legal norm. That's the basic system. A lot of people sit on a romantic pink cloud and don't consciously think about it. Then that safety net comes from the basic system. People who want to deviate from that will now go to the notary. The system proposed by the authors of the amendment requires that you go to the notary before you get married at all. Now you can just get married. The legislator has ensured that there is a system on which you can fall back. We now want to adapt and limit this system to the limited community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u26	Please continue, Mrs. Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u27	I had stayed with the business aspects of marriage, the individual's position within marriage and the relationship between the husbands. Perhaps it is appropriate to remove a misunderstanding surrounding the proposal on this point too. If you're getting married under the new system, you're not getting married on a prenup. After all, they do not need to be made anymore. Again, it is an automatic basic system on which to fall back. We've just talked extensively about the choice system. Let me say a few words about this. It seems in itself a sympathetic idea. The proposers have considered it, so I do understand the questions of those who just interrupted. If we came to such a system, future spouses would have to give that choice to the civil servant. They must be properly informed in order to avoid unwise choices being made. Then I get to the point of leveling. Mr Van Nispen has asked whether this bill fits in with an individualising trend in which there is actually less and less sharing. I understand that concern, but with this proposal I think that risk is very small. Husbands, of course, remain responsible for each other's loyalty, assistance and assistance. That's what's in the Civil Code. It's even mandatory law. There is therefore a mutual duty to care. Whether this bill levelles more or less naturally depends on the specific circumstances of the case. Premarital property is no longer shared. Only if there is much difference between the capabilities of the two partners will there be a great difference of outcome. The question is, is that so bad? In the opinion of the initiators, what has been earned premarital should remain private through their own efforts. We believe that the majority of future weddingists feel the same way. In addition, you can also think that the longer that marriage lasts and the more destiny bondage develops, the smaller its effect becomes. Normally, when community wealth is built up during marriage and marriage lasts longer, the difference is increasing. The bill therefore combines the independence and protection that the exclusion of premarital property and premarital debts offers, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, care for each other during marriage. Mr Van Nispen asked about husbands who have modest assets. He asked in particular if it would not become unnecessarily complicated for these people. I believe that Mrs Bergkamp has also asked questions about this. The initiators think it will not be more complicated for this group. It is precisely this group that will have little or no premarital property and the assets present will often rather be built over the duration of the marriage. In the case of modest assets, the current and new systems are likely to be the same. What is new is that it is very important that donations and inheritances are excluded from the community. If I'm right, the SP thought that was an attractive thought. It is precisely through exclusion clauses that these donations and inheritances should be kept out of the community. If this bill becomes law, it doesn't have to happen again. Then we don't have to go to the notary anymore. Cohabiting couples will often have built something together. There will often be some premarital ability when you have lived together. There will also be joint debts. That is why, in the first letter of amendment, we have regulated that joint wealth that cohabitants have built also falls into the marriage community. Mr Van Oosten will go into this further. In doing so, the law as it is now proposed is in line with the principle that what is private should also remain private. At the same time, it is in line with the principle that the system should be relatively simple. Mrs Yücel asked for a specific example of premarital debts. She mentioned the example that one spouse closes a debt in his own name for the benefit of both spouses. She asked what the debt would be. My answer is that premarital debts of course remain private debts of the husbands. If that debt, from Mrs Yücel's example, has been incurred for the benefit of the other spouse, it will be possible to offset it on the basis of the general property right. In short, it remains a private debt and it will be possible to offset it. That doesn't change anything. That's what's happening right now. However, by means of the second letter of amendment, we have clarified that debts contracted together prior to marriage fall as well as the accumulated assets in the community. Mr Van Nispen has also raised a case. It's like this. Person A and B are getting married. A took out a loan just before the wedding. This loan is therefore a debt......................................................................................................................................................................... A and B decide to do something about the ability they build together; they invest, they buy a second house. However, the debt of person A is not repaid. A few years later, they split up. Then only person A will pay for that debt, while not repaying that debt resulted from choices made by A and B together. As we understand this case, the failure to repay the debt is the result of the choice made by the spouses together in relation to the spending of their income during marriage. That debt remains therefore a private debt of A, as Mr Van Nispen rightly concludes. Then I come to what I would almost call a 'loud' remark. Mr Dijkgraaf asked a question about the return of training. His question was what kind of capital that return would belong to. Mr Dijkgraaf will also know that matrimonial property law is only about property rights and obligations. The return Mr Dijkgraaf talks about is nothing more than the ability to make money that you have learned at school and acquired skills. It has not yet become a property right. Today we are only talking about property rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u28	Mr Dijkgraaf still has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u29	Yeah, because it wasn't supposed to be funny at all. Let's say you have two people who are getting married. One has a very good education, the other has virtually no training, or for example: no training. Those with a high level of education generally have a much higher earning capacity than the other. So he must have built up a lot more, even before he got married. The question is, how do you settle that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u30	If I go back to Mr Dijkgraaf's terminology on the'reward on training', that will of course be paid in wages. As far as that is enjoyed during marriage, it just falls into the community and is shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u31	Exactly. That's the difference. If it translates into wages, it is indeed shared, but not if it does not translate into wages. So you see that various returns lead to such a set-off as they materialize in the financial sense, but that doesn't happen if they don't materialize. In a divorce, of course, it makes a lot of difference what background situation someone has. Then the one with that great earning ability is the one who will get the most after the divorce.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u32	Mr Dijkgraaf rightly says: 'if the return materialises'. That's the point, of course. We are only talking about property law, which is matrimonial property law. We are not talking here about all kinds of other "powers" that you can or cannot make money, for example the return of an education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u33	I'd like to go back to my case. Let's say I'm to blame. What if I get married? Together we make all kinds of choices about the use of the assets we build together. We go on vacation, we buy a car together and so on. So we don't choose to pay off my college debt with the money we made, but we do nice things together. After a very, very long time, we split up. So I'm stuck with that debt. So it doesn't need to be shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u34	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u35	I did ask Mrs Swinkels to confirm that. But the next question has not yet been answered. Is this necessarily a reasonable outcome to the proposed system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u36	This seems to the initiators a reasonable outcome because, again, this is the result of the choices made by the spouses themselves during the marriage. They chose not to repay that debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u37	With this case I try to show that it is just too easy to assume that keeping premarital property and premarital debts outside the community is by definition fair. I doubt that. The partners together choose to take advantage of the money I contribute during the wedding. So they did choose that together, but I wonder if they realize that that is one's fault. That's my fault. In another situation, I would have repaid that debt, but now we're gonna do things together. So I'm gonna have to take the fall on my own for that debt. That is not necessarily a reasonable outcome. In the old system it is assumed that everything belongs to both partners. In that system, that debt would also be shared. I think that the initiators are a little too easy to assume that the outcome of the new situation, which has just been outlined, is considered reasonable by everyone in the Netherlands. I'm not specifically concerned with my college debt; I don't care about that. I'm using this as an illustration. So I got this right? So the initiators think this is fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u38	For the initiators, the starting point is that the debts that a person incurs privately remain with that person before the marriage. That often leads to the protection of the husband. Mr Van Nispen cannot find that reasonable, but I think it is a very consistent starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u40	I'm about to finish. Finally, I would like to mention the costs of the notary. Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Segers were concerned about this. They asked whether it was the initiators' expectation that fewer people would go to the notary to make less costs. We did think about that. Part of the prenup has a model that is closely in line with the basic system as we are now proposing. So the people who want to do that don't have to go to the notary to make other appointments. The group that matters doesn't have to. The group of future spouses who have special circumstances, for example if one of the two partners has an enterprise, will at this time and also later be wise to go to the notary and make arrangements there. For example, this could be a prenuptial agreement involving separate assets. Anyone who later wants to marry in the general community of goods will, contrary to the current situation, also have to go to the notary to draw up a prenup. However, we expect this group to be much smaller than the group which no longer needs to draw up these conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u41	Mrs Swinkels is indeed answering my questions about the fear of additional costs for the notary. The proposers believe that a basic system is needed, so that is what we are assuming. Suppose: a couple stands at the counter, chooses to marry in community of goods and can indicate that on the spot. It is therefore a very conscious choice and that choice would be free. If we see the basis of the basic system like this, could we find each other? Do I understand the point of departure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u42	In his question, Mr Segers builds in that a couple makes a very conscious choice, but that is precisely the problem. As far as the business side of marriage is concerned, this choice is not made so aware and information is needed. Mr Segers says in his example that the parties themselves have thought about this. At least that's how I understand him. That may well be and it may be going well sometimes, but the risk is much greater that people have to choose at the counter, as proposed in Mr Segers' amendment, and then make an ill-thought-out choice. It is very difficult to assess the risks and the financial consequences of one system or another. That's tricky. There are experts behind this who have thought and written a lot about it. It's not that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u43	I honestly don't understand. I really don't understand this. I don't get it at all. Mrs. Swinkels says we need a basic system. I say, okay, let's start from a basic system, from its basic system. Let me give you the example of a couple that has thought about this very consciously: it indicates that it does not want the basic system, but a community of goods. That is a conscious choice and we are talking about freedom. And then the answer from the proposers is that that couple has to make costs and go to the notary. I sincerely wonder what the objection is. The proposers attach so much importance to a basic system; let us rely on that basic system. But that couple made a conscious choice. Then you can't say that the couple hasn't given it much thought, but that it's going to think about it when it has to pay the costs for the notary? What kind of amazing thing is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u44	We're not saying it wasn't properly thought out. It is almost impossible to check whether it has been properly thought about and whether it is a conscious choice. That's where the problem is. You can't expect the civil servant to go through that with the future husbands. After all, he wasn't quipped for it and he can't do it. You take big risks with that. I don't think that's a desirable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u45	I see a new liberal principle: Father State protects you; you are unable to make good choices, so the government does so for you. I think that is the principle that we are dealing with here. I would like to ask Mrs Swinkels whether she is going to propose in the group that new own-initiative legislation be adopted on taxation and so on. You have to make very complicated choices there, too. We're abolishing all of that. Take the allocation of capital returns between spouses and so on. You can't ask people to do that, can you? They have to pass a fiscalist first. To be honest, it bewilders me. I would have expected it from Mr Recourt, I say with a wink. After all, it's from the left-wing camp. But D66 and the VVD? You guys must have had an incredibly big fight about this as initiators, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u46	We didn't have a fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u47	Then I'm gonna be really worried. Then I don't think there's been any proper thought. In this country, we assume people make their own choices, don't we? Take their choice of school, their choice of further education, their choice of job or their choice of husband. The sequel is that Father State is going to choose a husband for you, because yes, are you able to think this through? Where is the essence of the freedom of choice and the confidence in people that things are going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u48	There is a choice, but for those who cannot or do not want to make a choice, there is the automatic system, the basic system, of the law: the limited community as proposed. For anyone who wants it different, there is a choice to go to a notary and make different appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u49	There is now a basic system where people fall back when they haven't thought about it. That's the whole community of goods. In the proposal of the proposers there is another basic system, namely the limited community of goods. If it's up to the initiators, people will fall back on it in the future if they haven't thought about it. So what is the argument that people get into trouble if they haven't thought about it properly when you give the choice between the current legal system and the future legal system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u50	That's what it's like to think that the choice can't be made without proper information. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan het weer herhalen.]] This bill will make the community smaller. This brings a large number of benefits according to the initiators. We believe that this is best suited to the situation of the largest group of people. If you let people choose the counter for the system that we say is not the best system for the greatest common denominator, then the basic system is no good. Sorry, I'm saying it wrong. I mean, you have to fall back on the basic system of the limited community. That seems to us to be the best thing for the largest group of people. Without further information, opening up a choice to the old system would seem to me to be an undesirable situation. The legislator shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u51	I thought it was quite a good question myself, because it is not easy to answer. Now people don't make that choice either, and they fall back on the whole community. In the future, people who do not make a choice fall back on the limited community. There's no logic behind it. You only get better if you have to organize a form of information, because there is no such information at all now, except when people go to the notary. Mrs. Swinkels says: I wouldn't want everyone to go to the notary. Of course, there are problems now in the eyes of the initiators, which is why they are making this proposal. But now to say that the current legal system that 70% of people fall back on can't do anymore because people get into trouble... I really miss the logic. There's not a good story behind why the choice system wouldn't be a good idea. That's really not convincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u52	That the system as we know it is no longer possible, in Mr Van Nispen's words, has not been said by the initiators. The current system applies to all existing marriages. We believe that it is a better system for the future generation, that it is better suited to its wishes if the community is restricted. Better in the sense that premarital debts, for example, are not included. That's just one aspect. We believe that the proposed system is better. That should be the basis, and if you want it to be different, it is best to have the notary provide you with good advice and yet, in our view, choose the lesser, worse system of the overall community of goods.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u54	I'm at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u55	Mr. Chairman. In the course of my speech I also have something about the choice system and information. I would like to point that out, because that is where we are now in the answer. I'm just gonna say my piece right here. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, At least it doesn't exist anymore in the form we used to know. These days, you can engage digitally, just via the city's digital window. That makes education a little more difficult. If you want, you can still join the official for a preliminary interview and reserve the town hall and such. Then it is a little crazy to ask the civil servant in a new legal system according to the old legal system: will you arrange that for me? Then you ask that official to act as a notary. We'll have to do that by notarial deed. The civil servant cannot be used as a notary, apart from what Mrs Swinkels said about information. You have a legal relapse option. It is now a complete community of goods and that becomes a limited community of goods. You need that relapse option because you can't force people to make a choice. You can't say, "If you don't choose, I won't marry you." This is contrary to Article 9 (12) of the ECHR. If people don't make a choice, they fall into the standard. If you want to deviate from that, you have to go to a notary because it has to be by notarial deed and the civil servant is not the one who can make choices in different legal regimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u56	Again the question. The basic system that the proposers are now embracing is that you do need a relapse option, because you cannot decide not to marry someone. If that's the starting point, why do extra costs have to be incurred when a couple makes an informed choice to marry in a community of goods?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u57	I'd rather you didn't, but notaries don't work for free. By the way, it's only three sentences, so it's gonna be okay in itself. Moreover, a civil servant is not free of charge, which is paid by the community. You cannot have a civil servant draw up a notarial document or have legal acts carried out by derogating from the legal standard and making a special package, which is free of charge for nothing. That does not seem desirable to me, but above all not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u58	Then we'll get into a circular reasoning. We are presenting a system of choice by means of an amendment. Then the answer is no, because we need a basic system. Then I say, "Okay, then I embrace the basic system." Then you have to incur additional costs if you deviate from that. Yeah, we'll never get together. Why do you need a basic system if you don't want to give a couple the freedom to choose to marry in community of goods? Why can't you make that informed choice there? Why isn't that the starting point for the proposers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u59	Freedom of choice is the starting point. I do not believe that Mr Segers embraces that basic system. He still wants that choice system and he wants that choice to be made with the civil servant. It can't be. The civil servant may offer the standard package set out in the law. An official of civil status may not deviate from the legislation and establish on the spot a form of prenuptial agreement which is legally valid. That is simply not the case with the official, apart from the fact that it is practically not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u60	I just filled out my tax return. I think you all did, given your income. It contains a standard option. For example, if I have a mortgage interest rate deduction, in this case it is entirely with me, but I can move it. I can choose. That's free. Well, it either raises money or it costs money, but I don't have to pay a fiscalist. Then why is it not possible to have two legal options, namely the option of the proposers and the option of marrying in the community of goods? If people choose, then that's fine and then it becomes that option. If they don't choose, I would be in favour of the community of goods and the proposers for the other option. For either option there is a majority here, but you can simply integrate such a system into the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u61	It is my humble opinion that this cannot be done, because you cannot allow a person, whether a citizen or an official, to choose between two legal systems without, for example, being legalized and perpetuated by a notarial act. You have to be practical about that, too. It is not possible for a civil servant to have a notarial information interview with the people he has in front of him and to come to a notarial deed. We really shouldn't do that to that civil servant. That is simply not the profession of that official, apart from the fact that this is not legally possible because you have to record that kind of act by notarial act and not with the signature of an official.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u62	In doing so, Mr Recourt denies that it would be legally established, because that would simply be enshrined in the law. The amendment still needs to be amended, but then you do not need a notarial act at all, as well as you do not need a notarial act for the community of goods now. Why isn't that necessary? Because this is a legal regime. So you have two legal regimes and you choose between one of them. One of those two is the regime you fall back on if you don't choose. You can always get married. The government never has to refuse. Both are legally secured. The cost is zero. Maybe the initiators don't want this. It's okay. That may be a political choice, but there is no legal or substantive reason not to do so, unless we tell the Dutch people that they are unable to choose, as has just come to light. But knowing Mr Recourt, he doesn't even want to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u63	Of course, people are often able to choose. If you present people with a choice, it is very useful to do so in a well-guided way. This is not usually the case, and that is the first practical problem. Civil servants are not equipped to provide such information. As I have just said, that is precisely what is happening today because it is happening in part electronically. So people don't see that official at all, but that's the practical side. Mr Dijkgraaf has sat on the more principled side. He actually says: make two legal systems and if not elected, we as a government will choose. I like that. I will come back to that in the second term, because I cannot say that you can never create two legal systems. It seems rather clumsy to me, because the starting point of the system is that there is a safety net and then you are going to make two safety nets. However, I do not have a basic answer to the question why this should not be possible, so I shall come back to that. Until then, I will say that we do not recommend this amendment from your colleague. I shall now come to the beginning of my speech. I'm gonna come up with a lot of technical stuff later, but I just want to start with my mom. My mom married my dad back in the fifties. Before that, she worked as a kindergarten teacher, and she did it with heart and soul. As a thank you, the government gave her a letter of resignation on her wedding day, because she was a woman and then you have a lot and that's the kitchen sink, that is to take care of the household and later for the children. That hurt her. She's 84 now, and she can still be intrinsically very angry about it. Why do I cite this example? Because it is the basis of the legislation that is now in force. The basis is that the woman is powerless and that the man is the economic householder who determines the image in society, while the woman sits at home and does the household and takes care of the children. It is very important to bear this in mind, because this capacity for action for women is not very long. In this system, you need the woman after a divorce to be cared for at a time when, fortunately, she is not so often cared for. In that system, you need a lot connection that goes beyond the end of marriage, because that woman cannot operate independently economically in society. Thank God we're done with that system and my daughters and my wife are happy to have my mother's sister studying, working and making their own money. We must move towards a legal regime in which women are treated equal to men. As far as I am concerned, the law we are hoping to leave today is one of the last remnants in which we still see the principle of "the woman sitting at home, the man working." That was a pretty emotional sigh on my part. In fact, all parties, most explicitly the SP, have pointed out the position of women: is this not vulnerable to women? No. In fact, I recently attended a meeting where a professor said that women up to about 30 years of age deserve more than men. The big difference occurs when children come. That's usually the time when people are already married, and then our system is going to work. Indeed, our system does not work for the period in which the woman is not married. You can't say that women lag considerably behind in the premarital period. That is not the case. I am afraid to say that women earn more or save more in the premarital period, but I think it is about the same. In this sense, I do not see any disadvantages, vulnerabilities or disadvantages for women. In 2010 or 2011, a report from the WODC on cold exclusion was published. The SP and other parties raised this issue and asked whether there was a major problem there. At least our bill of law doesn't look forward to it. It does not look at cold exclusion by notarial act and not at actual cold exclusion by people who are not married. This is covered by another legal regime. We don't change that; it's outside our system. If you wanted to change that, you could. The SP has tabled amendments on this subject. You're gonna have to think very carefully about how to do that. It really needs to be thought through. For example, how do you define "out of marriage"? The SP made a move for that. You can ask questions about that right away. Do you have to live in one house or not? First of all, I say to the SP amendments that I can imagine you want to regulate some of them, but I would say: do so on the basis of an own-initiative proposal rather than with this proposal. It doesn't touch here and falls out of it. It really requires a solid study to optimally regulate that. I see Mr Van Nispen coming forward, but I will finish the discussion of the amendments for a moment. Then I can answer the questions on that point. In the meantime, I'm looking in my text, because I had gotten rid of it. The danger of that is that you have to look very hard when you want to move on. Anyway, I know it by heart. The SP has tabled two amendments. One's goal is to arrange it for the people who don't take care of anything and are not married, but who run a business together. The first point is that this involves a firm judicialisation of society. You make a legal arrangement while I feel much happier in a room with which you very consciously say that you do not want to arrange it and therefore do not. The second point... Oh, I really can't find it anymore. That's very annoying, because I typed it ten minutes ago. That should mean I remember it that way. So I'm just gonna keep talking out of my head. The second point relates in particular to the second amendment, or to the first amendment; it is just how you want to see it, which says: arrange it for people who have done a cold exclusion with the notary, because twenty years later the situation may be different and therefore there should simply be a correction of equity. This goes against the principle of the respectful functioning of the contract. In principle, you need to be able to rely on that. I don't think you should get back to that too easily. There are exceptions to this, but they are in the law and they are already being applied. At the moment that you made a form of prenup 20 years ago and it turns out to be quite unreasonable, it is already possible to return to the court. He'll honor that, too. That is another reason not to open that door further by means of an amendment. I have dealt with the arguments to say that the amendments are sympathetic, but not within this law. I have told them at the same time that we will discourage them, as far as we can appreciate them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u64	Well, that's a little disappointing, isn't it? We can talk about the content of the amendments. There is indeed something proposed that you can ask if it would be better for sister or better. However, it is not a new subject. I am the first to say this to Mr Recourt. In 2008 there was a wide-ranging debate on this issue under a legislative proposal similar to that now submitted by the initiators. Former MP Ed Anker then tabled a similar amendment. That came too early then and the argument was used that it was not quite well thought out. There was then an extensive WODC study involving the University of Groningen. It was a big report. So it's already been thought through. I am not saying that there is nothing to improve on my amendment, because I am really prepared to do so. However, I dispute the argument that it does not fit in well with this law, because it also played a role in an earlier similar legislative proposal. It is a forward-looking strategy to say that it has not been properly considered and that further study is needed. That doesn't quite go on. Can Mr Recourt respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u65	Oh, yeah. Again, it requires good consideration of how to regulate and define that to make sure that you do not make it too spacious and not too tight. There is a second point I have not mentioned. A response from the cabinet came in 2012 to the Cold Exclusion report of the WODC. It says that there has been talk with judges and lawyers and that no one in those professions says that the current legal means are insufficient in 2012, but that is no different now. You can come back to it, if you have proven unfairness. So it's not necessary, at least, professionals say they don't need it because they can come back to it. The judge says if they come to me with the right arguments, I can correct that injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u66	At the hearing we heard that judges are very well equipped with a fair correction and that there are still poignant cases. That's what we hear from professionals in practice. If Mr Recourt refers to Article 248 of Book 6, the Haviltex criterion, it is precisely such a general criterion that it is good to regulate this specifically, because it is about correcting the cold exclusion. We should not throw the amendment on the single people living together at once. These are two different things on which I have tabled separate amendments for a reason. They are now being swept up by Mr Recourt, with various arguments, a bit. Let us confine ourselves to the amendment for which I already have two co-signatorys. I ask the authors to say what is wrong with this rather than saying that it does not fit well with the legislative proposal. We can always see how we get out of there together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u67	I don't want to repeat myself. I've given the arguments. This bill leaves that completely out of the picture. I don't think you should pull that into our law either. It also makes it more vulnerable, by the way, because we are not only dealing with the Lower House, but also with the Upper Chamber. I don't think it's necessary, because the field doesn't ask for it. What is possible with our bill is a fair correction when you are married without cold exclusion. Anyone who takes the basic package, so to speak, also gets the equity correction. In your amendment, it only applies to people who go to a notary and meet each other, for example: at the moment when our marriage is on the rocks, I keep my company and you get nothing. They agree with dry eyes in the presence of a notary who has provided information on this matter. The notary says, "The moment you agree to that, you have to stick to it." That's some kind of contract. Then there may be reasons to depart from that, but you have to do that very reluctantly. Basically, you just have to stick to a contract. That's the basics of civil law. Then there are still possibilities within the current law to deviate from that, when this is really hard. Experts, lawyers and judges say that's enough. Then I can only conclude that it is not convenient to ride that in this law per amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u69	I have already included a piece of my text in the answer to the questions, so I will continue with the next subject and that is information. I respond initially to questions from the CDA group, but in fact all the groups have asked about information. We agree that information is extremely important. I have just concluded that education really only gets less if you can arrange your marriage by digital means. This also has advantages, which is all wonderful, but information is not getting any better. We've also been thinking about how to organize that better. I think that this could be done with a system with a bonus or root, for example by the municipality giving a discount to couples who have previously been informed to a notary, a lawyer or another expert. Huwen's no good. You can imagine a municipality saying that it considers professional education to be so important that it encourages this by giving a discount on that amount. That would be a good incentive to get information even better off the ground. Again, I share the view that this is insufficient, whatever system you choose. It doesn't really have much to do with the system. In fact, if this bill is passed, I think your people are a little better protected from the lack of information. Especially in the case of second marriages, one suddenly encounters a debt from the first marriage. Our bill is in any case tailored to the increase in the number of second or even third marriages, as I regret to note. There's a lot of consequences for that marriage. There are often children, old partners, old debts. In any case, our legislative proposal prevents them from working in the last marriage, even without information. It'll protect you a little bit better. I come back to the specific question raised by the VVD Group on information and property consequences of marriage. It is not necessary to abuse the non-business side of marriage if it is properly and strictly informed about its consequences for property, debts, inheritances, etc. We, as initiators, believe that such information should even be seen more widely and be of interest to the forms of society. In all cases it should apply: before you begin. That sounds a bit negative, because getting married is a lot of fun, but remember that getting married is not only an emotional, romantic matter, but above all a property matter for the law, with relevant consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u70	I have a question about premarital property. The initiator says that you do not automatically take debts or private debts accumulated in a previous relationship in the new system with this change of law and that it remains private debt. That also applies to accumulated power. It is necessary, however, for this to be clearly proven. Evidence comes in if you don't keep a clear record. I read in the bill that this system also leaves room for couples or for people not to administer too much, because it then goes into evidence. Can the initiator explain that for a moment? If you can't prove previously built-up assets, it may be automatically interpreted as assets built up together during marriage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u71	I will briefly comment on that. I think this will come back more specifically in Mr Van Oosten's reply. If you can prove that something is private and premarital, it remains outside the community of marriage. This can be done quite easily in relevant cases such as inheritance or bank balances. Almost everything is of course kept electronically, especially with some larger and fundamental things such as house debt. They're all well registered. That's why I'm not so afraid of people thinking, "Damn it, I lost the receipt." But if it's really about the receipt level: if you think it's important, for example, that a particular painting belongs to you and you want to keep it, then you have to keep the receipt of it, even if it's an electronic receipt; otherwise it's just both. That is another safety net in a safety net, so to speak. The SGP brought to our attention the possibility of hidden debts in the current system at the start of marriage. In the opinion of the initiators, the current legislative proposal provides adequate protection for the other spouse. The debts in question, which were concealed prior to marriage, do not form part of the marriage community. Moreover, the proposed limitation of the legal position of private creditors applies to own debts. To this extent, there is a targeted solution to the problem of premarital debts. With regard to the concealment of debts during marriage, the new proposed regulation of Article 100 (2) applies. I quote: 'To the extent that, when the community is dissolved, the property of the community is not sufficient to satisfy the debts of the community, these are borne by both spouses, each to an equal extent, unless the requirements of reasonableness and fairness, including in relation to the nature of the debt, result in a different obligation to bear'. So there too can be corrected. The reference to the ruling of the Supreme Court is left to me. The draft law before us does not only deal with the problem of premarital debts. It goes much further. The disputes raised by the SGP are resolved now that all premarital debts, known or unknown, of a spouse are no longer covered by the community. I come to the questions of the CDA and the Christian Union, in which they quoted Professor Reinhartz's criticism of private credits. It is said that the husband or non-debtor should ultimately pay for the other husband's private debts. The proposed Article 96 (3) makes this impossible, contrary to the current system. Through the story of private debtors on the property of the community, half of the value of these goods belongs to the spouse, as non-debtor. It then stays out of the reach of the story of these private debtors. Contrary to what is suggested, this part of the bill is therefore very important to protect the husband, non-debtor, from the other husband's private debtors. A reasonable balance was sought between the position of the private creditors on the one hand and that of the other spouse, non-debtor, on the other. For example, a private creditor who has claimed 100 goods from the husband will never be able to claim more than half of the marriage community if the wife invokes Article 96 (3). If 100 goods belong to that community, the story of that private creditor will thus be arithmetically limited to half of them. The wife can save her share of the marriage community, which is 50, in that way. Under current law, she would have just completely lost her share, so all hundred goods. The Christian Union asked questions about its own business and about the mixing of assets. All goods acquired by spouses shall be subject to the same rules of replacement as those laid down in Article 95. In accordance with what applies to the other premarital property, compensatory claims in the form of a right of compensation may arise as a result of the replacement of the property. This is done, for example, when the acquisition of a property becomes part of the spouse's own funds, while the acquisition of the property from the community also contributes to the payment of the purchase price. In doing so, it does not matter whether or not the good is made serviceable to the entrepreneurial capacity. If the company belongs to the private property of the spouse, or if a business property for less than half of the price is paid out of the husband's private property and the rest of the community, the business property will belong to the community. Colleagues, it's all heavy, but I have to read it out, at least to a large extent. This may be of interest to the Acts, for example when legal experts later discuss how all this should be explained. Nevertheless, I try to keep this to the minimum. That's why I'm moving on. Partly because of the attention of the SP for it, the initiators have come to the conclusion that an even further amendment of the Bankruptcy Act is desirable. We have therefore done so in the second letter of amendment. It proposed deleting paragraphs 2 to 6 of Article 61 of the Bankruptcy Act. This responds to the unreasonable effects of the objections raised in these paragraphs, namely the obligation of proof for the unfailing spouse in the case of private property. It is not appropriate for spouses to have a higher duty of proof vis-à-vis creditors than spouses themselves. Nor is there any reason to maintain the special evidence regime currently applicable to prenuptial terms for spouses who have also kept other property outside the community. That is why Article 130 is repealed. I'll scrape the last piece. This brings me to the end of my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u72	Before I thank you very much, there is a question first from Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u73	I want to make more of an announcement. The petitioner said that he would return to a second-term question by Mr Dijkgraaf on the choice system, which would make the proposers' basic system the relapse option. We are prepared to amend our amendment in such a way that we are indeed relying on the basic system as a relapse option. If that is a concession, we are therefore prepared to amend our amendment to that effect in preparation for the second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u74	Thank you for the constructive attitude. It's a pretty fundamental question. We'd like to get that sorted out before we can think about it any further. We'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u75	It calls on the initiators to be flexible and to look at multiple possibilities. I still have a question about that. Of course, the initiators did not choose for nothing the proposal we are discussing today. I should like to make it clear that it is nice to investigate things, but it is important that the initiators state once again that they are going for the system we are discussing. I'd like to get a confirmation of that, otherwise we're gonna investigate things that might be fun, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u76	It's very good to have D66 on the other side. I'm referring to my plea about my mother. It is clear that we feel from the system we advocate that it is intrinsically the most just, the most equal and most appropriate at this time. That is why we are in favour of this system. Mr Dijkgraaf asked a question I simply could not give a good answer to. I'd like to get a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u77	I think that's quite right. Perhaps the initiator can look at the WODC report, which gives a clear opinion and says that a choice system is not feasible and workable in practice. Perhaps this point can be taken into account during the break or in the second term. I wonder what the initiators think of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u78	That it is not workable has also been said by my colleague. I've repeated that. But that's not what the question was looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u79	Perhaps the following is more of a comment than a question, but the initiators can of course respond to it. I am glad that Mrs Bergkamp is standing up for the right of amendment from the Chamber. I will remind Mrs Bergkamp of these words if the government makes another proposal and we want to amend something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u80	I think it was directed to Mrs Bergkamp through the band, so I'm not going to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u81	It's possible. A brief comment from Mrs Bergkamp?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u82	This is all going to be in the Acts and it's going to be for generations to come next. I would therefore like to point out that I do not understand the comments made by the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u83	Let us leave it at that and let me just give Mr Van Oosten the floor. Or does Mr Dijkgraaf still feel called?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u84	If that happens, I will. Finally, in order to end this debate, I would like to give Mr Dijkgraaf the opportunity to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u85	I will solve that by asking Mrs Bergkamp about it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u86	I don't know if that fits the order of the debate, but that's what we're going through. I thought Mr Van Nispen wanted to say something, but he does so in the second term. I should like to thank Mr Recourt very much and give the floor to Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u87	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that it is very special to be able to look my colleagues in the eye from this place. I do not want to say 'to speak to my colleagues', because that sounds a little presumptuous. I was allowed to stand here once earlier, then with a colleague from the SP Group. I would like to thank both my co-initiatives and, in particular, their support, without which we could not have gotten to this point. Mr Swinkels has just mentioned in her introduction that I would like to deal with a number of points. In fact, that is the administration, on which many questions have been asked by several colleagues in the run-up to this plenary debate, and on the 'varia' heading referred to by Mrs Swinkels. So that could be anything and anything. You understand. I'll start with the important part of premarital property administration. We have already said a few things about this, but I would like to make it quite clear once again that we do not feel the fear that a law specifically intended for accountants is being created here. Absolutely not! As we have already pointed out, it is a real misunderstanding that the bill would impose an obligation on spouses to keep records, no more than keeping records is a condition for a proper settlement. We cannot, of course, rule out a dispute. Especially in family law, there's always a stick to beat the other one up with, if you let me flatter myself. But if there is a dispute about what belongs to the community, then you have to prove it, of course, but that is something other than an administrative obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u88	I would like to ask you a few questions on this point. I have already started this in an interrupting debate with a fellow initiator. It's about the evidence suspect that comes into effect for premarital property at the time you don't have a clear administration. I understand all that. The initiator says that the proposal has no administrative obligation. In that case, the intended marriage in a limited community of goods would be difficult to achieve in practice. There's got to be some form of administration, right? Surely it must be at least traceable that a particular debt or property belongs to a person?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u89	I would have liked to have mentioned this in the course of my contribution. Part of it is therefore an answer to the question that Mrs Yücel is right to put here. If you can't provide proof, you're dealing with the article that my colleagues have already mentioned. In the end, it's part of the community. If you can provide the evidence, that's not the case. But how do you provide that evidence? This is, in principle, available by all means. If you haven't kept records, you're gonna have to do some research. However, the question is whether this is so complicated in this modern age. Besides, we're making this law for tomorrow and the long time after that. We are already dealing with an extensive digital world, where you can download bank statements. This may, for example, indicate who made a particular payment. In this context, colleagues have already spoken about real estate and delivery documents, which indicate who has become the owner at what time. That is not something of tomorrow, but also something of today and, by the way, something of yesterday. That is an answer to Mrs Yücel's question and that is an immediate contribution I would have liked to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u90	The answer is clear. I understand that, too. At the same time, if I see it all right for myself, it requires that some form of awareness arises in the Netherlands that the basic system as we know it now, namely marriage in the community of goods, is being turned upside down. It's gonna be very different. So taking your own responsibility in it is the choice of whether or not to administrate it requires that you have knowledge of the consequences that things can have when you get married or divorced. Some form of information is therefore needed. How do the initiators view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u91	I can very well imagine that there will be some form of information. This can be done, for example, by the civil servant, in the form of a leaflet or something like that. I have just said that such a law exists for years after now. We are all now well aware of what such an overall community of goods means. I can imagine that this will happen years after now. The community of goods which now exists as a basic system no longer finds the system we stand for, given the way we look at the world. That's a conscious choice. That is why we want to adapt this. I think there's a very nice degree of protection behind it, for example in the area of debts made by the former partner prior to marriage, but you didn't know about it. Colleagues have already mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u92	Unfortunately, if you end up in a divorce later on, it is important that you keep an administration, in order to be able to demonstrate clearly what belongs to who. If people choose this option, you should actually advise them to keep good records. Who's gonna tell these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u93	I am going to say first that there is no administrative obligation. Let me highlight that very clearly: there is no administrative obligation. In Mr Dijkgraaf's question there is a decision, at least that is how I listen to him, that there is a good form, if you want to get it right. There is no administrative obligation. Of course, it is not forbidden to administer, either inside or outside the marriage. When it comes to the dissolution of the marriage and you say that something of yours was private, belonged to the premarital property or was acquired during the marriage by an inheritance, you must of course prove it. That is the old principle in the Dutch legal system: who claims, proves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u94	That's exactly where the problem is. I remember it well. I dated for seven years and I got married at 24. I moved from a dorm room to an apartment. The first thing I did was clean up all the old stuff; all those bank statements went by the old paper. I can't prove anything at all. You sit on a pink cloud and you think: boys, great, great! That's what a lot of people do. Then Mr Van Oosten says: we live in modern times and you can download it all. Well, I just googled: at Rabobank, one of the banks I sit with, there is a deadline of 15 months. Longer should not last a relationship, including the time before the marriage, because otherwise you will not get a copy from the bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u95	Firstly, I note that I can reassure Mr Dijkgraaf, because at least this bill will not apply to his marriage, in so far as it would please him. Apart from that: downloading bank statements is one example. There's no formal requirement to prove what's been yours or the other's. However, I do believe, given the developments in the coming period, that more and more digital possibilities are becoming possible. At the moment when you cannot prove it, it is classified as a community asset, so it is literally stated in paragraph 8 of the Article 94 in question and belongs to the community. I think that is quite right, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u96	Mr Van Oosten keeps saying: there is no duty to keep up with everything. At the same time, the initiators assume a basic system. That can only work if you keep track of everything. That's a really weird combination, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u97	No, Mr. Chairman. Let me say again: there is no administrative obligation. There isn't one. It is not forbidden to administer, but there is no administrative obligation. I have every confidence, especially with all modern means, that at the time it comes to dissolution, by the one who makes it, you have to do it yourself, of course, proof can be provided that something has belonged to the premarital potency. There's no administrative duty. If you don't keep track and time passes, then that evidence will only not be delivered sooner. If it can't be proven, it's considered community property.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u98	Mr Van Oosten says once or twice, six or seven that there is no obligation to provide information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u99	Administrative duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u100	Administrative duty, indeed. There'll be no fine if you don't keep track of everything. At the same time, the basic system stands or falls with the maintenance of the administration. It is not fair to say that one does not have to keep up. If you want to get a decent settlement in the base set, you have to keep track of everything. Isn't that fair information?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u101	I keep repeating it and not to be faint, but because I think it is so important that this is highlighted in the Acts: there is no administrative obligation. Fortunately, many marriages are not dissolved. I hope my marriage can be an example of that. When a marriage comes to dissolution, it is very pleasurable that there is a system in which the property you have built up for marriage or that you have been given by an experiencer during marriage is basically your own. That is why I have been behind this as the initiator. You have to prove that the ability is your own. That's not so crazy, because the basic rule in our country is: who puts it, proves it. We do not, however, commit any obligation to the way in which it is proved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u102	Who's gonna tell that to the couples who're getting married? The people who are getting married assume that what was theirs remains theirs as well. The same applies to the inheritance they may receive. If they don't know that they're supposed to keep up, then that's not the case at the end of the marriage. Mr Van Oosten says so himself. People assume that part of the money is their own, whereas in practice it is not. That is where very good information is needed. Surely this can be done much better by a notary than by a general system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u103	I do not deny the usefulness of good information. I just wonder if the information on this point is so complicated. Through the Internet, it can be made clear on a good website that who claims, proves and that it is useful to have this information available in one way or another. Again, there is no duty to administer. I'm confident that a lot of things can be re-created or whatever you call it. This can be done on the basis of bank statements, deeds and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u104	Then I would like Mr Van Oosten to agree with what I have to say. People are about to get married assuming that they each keep their own share. If they are not told intrusively that they really need to keep up, that is not the case. People break up after years without keeping track, because nobody told them that. This will become the system that is being followed without a hitch. Then it turns out that it isn't well arranged. Aren't we kidding people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u105	I don't look at it that way. You ask me this question. Luckily, I'm the one who's gonna take the answer. I note that there is no administrative obligation. If you haven't kept track of anything, you may be having trouble with the evidence. There are no requirements for how to provide the evidence. With modern resources, there are a lot of ways to prove what was yours before the wedding. We talk about possession all the time, but it can also be about debt. When it comes to debt, it is generally based on a written agreement. You can bring it up again and then you can prove that the blame belonged to the other one et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u106	I understand there's no administrative duty and there's a suspicion of evidence. I would like to draw your attention to an example that has already been mentioned in the first term. An accountant is married to someone who's a little sloppy with the administration. One party keeps everything very meticulous, is very good and meticulous, and the other party has made one big gang of its financial administration. What's the result of that? Will that be a fair distribution, if one can prove what was private of him and that is still his and the other not by which the goods all fall into the estate and have to be divided? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u107	Mr Van Nispen now assumes that there is a weaker partner who can, to a lesser extent, ascertain what kind of marriage he was and what was not. I don't really share that fear. There's no administrative duty. I think that is very good, because otherwise we would be getting a lot of complicated issues. I think it is equally good that the premarital property is separated, as well as the inheritances you receive during marriage. I do not think it is at all strange, even more so, that I think it is very fair to say that, at the moment when that evidence is not available, it is, as a result of the suspicion of evidence, still regarded as a Community property. As time passes, that will be the case more quickly, especially if you don't keep a record. In a short-term marriage, this will be much less important. I think that, of course, we will continue to circle around it. A decent view of the way in which you shape marriage law, which is ultimately a business contract, apart from that pink cloud. I like that design better than the current one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u108	There is some reasonableness in the proposed system. I can see that, and I said that in the first term. I'm not denying that either. However, Mr Van Oosten does not answer the question. I outline a case: one party is very good at administering and keeping track and the other party is not. I'm not saying that's always gonna be the case, but it can happen, of course. The simple question I ask is how we judge it. I am not saying that as the answer sister or so my group advises against or against. I am merely asking whether this situation can arise and how the initiator assesses it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u109	In life, any situation can arise, including the situation outlined by Mr Van Nispen. I'm not gonna argue with that. Eventually, there is a inherent factor in the fact that those who submit prove a certain degree of self-responsibility in order to be able to prove it. If you can't prove anything, it'll soon be classified as community property. I can't make it better. I find that the system as it is now, unless you go to the notary and have an active prenup, it automatically falls into the community. I think that's unfair, too. In fact, that is the real conviction for me to say that we need to change the system in the way we are proposing. I'll continue with the rest of my contribution. I need to see where I left off. I shall look through a little, because the answer to questions has covered everything. Mrs Swinkels has just announced that I have an additional comment on cohabiting couples who have accumulated assets prior to marriage. Honestly, I don't really have that much more to add to what Mrs Swinkles said. In the first letter of amendment, we indicated that where you built that community for the marriage that goes with marriage. I think that is a fair and equitable outcome. I'll see if I've mentioned all the points surrounding the administration and the evidence rules. I think so. I already said something in my answer about proof of debt. I am convinced that these are generally easily traceable, because they are entered and signed somewhere. I come now to the cup "varia." This includes what is necessary. I shall deal with those points one by one. I'm starting international marriages. There's a lot to say about that. Mrs Bergkamp has drawn attention to this, as has Mrs Yücel. Mrs Van Toorenburg did the same in her own way. I say that because her questions were of a different nature. I shall therefore deal with them separately from the questions put by Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Yücel. Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Yücel have, at least I had the impression, asked themselves, in particular, whether given the fact that the proposal we are now presenting as initiators is somewhat more in keeping with that of countries around us, with the international community, we can expect it to have an effect as such in the international private law procedures that are now being conducted around it. We'll expect that. We cannot, of course, predict everything that is going on in the future, but we expect it to be more consistent for the simple reason that it is. Take that example of inheritance. I understand that it can really lead to very nasty situations now when a foreigner simply doesn't know that the inheritance would fall into such a community unless he actively goes to the notary for that. I have therefore answered Mrs Yücel's question on private international law. Then I come to Mrs Van Toorenburg's question. She said: it is nice that the bill is in line with what is going on in the neighbouring countries, but that is not the motive. At least, if that's the bearing motive for this bill, I think it's skinny, Mrs Van Toorenburg said. That's how I understood it, but I see from Mrs Van Toorenburg that I'm saying it all wrong. Let me just say exactly what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u110	Mrs Van Toorenburg would like to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u111	Well, I would particularly like to help Mr Van Oosten by telling him that it is so nice that sometimes we have dealt with things differently than in Europe, because we often find it so unfair. Many parties often shout murder and fire over Europe, and this is justified in many respects. Now we've got it different and suddenly we think we need to look at the rest of Europe heavily. I think, count your blessings. Sometimes it is not so good to look at Europe at all, and that is certainly true when it comes to family law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u112	In fact, I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg, except where she is likely to conclude that this proposal is bad. Then I don't share her opinion anymore. I fully agree with her that our civil law must primarily be guided by ourselves. That's what's gonna happen. That is also the intrinsic belief of the initiators. That is why in this country we also have gay marriage, lesbian parenthood and mention all these examples. These are of course fantastic examples in which Dutch society shows that it has a view of the world in which I feel at home and with me fortunately many in this house feel very at home. However, in this particular case, it is an additional advantage that we are now connected with foreign countries, because many international marriages are being concluded. I have just given an example of the procedures that are taking place in the sphere of private international law. People from abroad simply do not understand that we here as an exception, together with Suriname and South Africa, have a system that does not relate at all to the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u113	But the advantage is that people who marry internationally are usually very well informed, so that's gonna be fine. The thrust of my comment was that it really is a poverty argument to look at Europe. The argument that we need to change this because the rest of Europe doesn't either is a poverty argument. I understand all the arguments. We can talk about all the arguments, but this really is an almost damaging argument for so-called progress. Europe is in all areas of family law. Then don't hide behind Europe. I was so sorry that the initiators did. I certainly didn't expect it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u114	I would also like to reassure Mrs Van Toorenburg that this has not been the supporting argument for this bill either. I would like to make one more comment to Mr Segers. He asked questions about the administration about the community of goods. That remark can be very brief, because the answer to the question of governance is set out in Articles 90 to 92 of BW Book 1. For the Acts, I say that this bill does not bring about any changes. Mr Segers also said that the Royal Notarial Professional Organization (KNB) would be against the bill. That must be a misconception. There was a round table and the speaker of the KNB had a slightly critical attitude, but the KNB is ultimately neutral against this bill, we understand. In our view, this neutrality can best be translated in this way: the Board of the KNB sees no reason, after the members were clearly in favour of that original proposal in 2003, to come forward with a different opinion on their own. I forgot to mention this to Mrs Bergkamp, although I think it is important that it should be included in the Acts. I would also like to say exactly what I have in front of me. Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Van Nispen asked whether this proposal would change the rights to pension rights. The answer to that question is no. The draft law does not change the current legislation on pension settlement in the event of divorce. Under the provisions of Article 94 200b, pension rights to which the Law on settlement of pension rights applies in the event of divorce and the survivor's pension remain outside the Community. Finally, I would like to say to Mrs Yücel the following about an evaluation clause. Mrs Yücel asks why there is no provision for evaluation in the legislative proposal. On the one hand, the amendments we are proposing are indeed substantial; there can be no mistake about that. That is why we have been discussing this all evening and a lot has already been exchanged in writing. On the other hand, according to the initiators, the changes are not so substantial that the effects could not be predicted, if I may put it that way. If you look at it at the end, the complete system of matrimonial property law, the figure of the legal community, the bodice mix, the administration regulation and so on doesn't change that much. That is just what I said to Mr Segers when we were talking about his questions on this subject. Therefore, according to the initiators, an evaluation assessment is not necessary. I'm just looking at my colleagues to see if I've forgotten anything important. I see that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u115	Thank you. A brief suspension has been requested. After the suspension, the Minister will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u116	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice. I ask him, on behalf of the government, to give his advice on this initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u117	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a word of appreciation for the initiators and the support. I know from my previous life what an initiative proposal means. It sometimes seems simple and you start off enthusiastically, believing that there really is a mistake to be repaired. It also seems relatively easy to do, because it is just a few articles and you will be able to do a great deal of fun for society. But then you discover that there is a lot involved, that it is extremely complicated and that you can also think differently about it. That's what it turned out to be tonight. The submission of an own-initiative proposal places high demands on the initiators and their support. I would like to congratulate all of them on the good work they have done, not only in the exchange of letters, but above all here today in this debate and in the first term of the Chamber, which has been discussed before. It is also good to recall that it was Mrs Berndsen-Jansen of D66 who for the first time walked through this building with this thought under the arm. She looked at whether other proposers were willing to join her thinking. Mrs Berndsen-Jansen cannot be here tonight, but I know she is following the debate in the Frisian town where she lives, without any doubt on the edge of the bank. On behalf of the government, it is good to give her the praise she deserves because she started doing so. I'd like to make a personal note. When I studied law a long time ago, in Leiden there was a professor, Professor Kleijn, who had written a booklet called: "We are married: introduction to matrimonial property law." The book was fixed. I had it pop up from my department library, and I've got it right here. This is a 1992 version, with lots of stamps, and I've also seen that it has a lot of scratches. So there has really been work in the department over the years. I remember very well that when I had read this book and passed the exam, one conclusion kept popping up on me, and that's the case to this day when you get married, you do well to do so under prenup. This was because Professor Kleijn was able to make clear in a very visual way, in the light of the case at the time, where sometimes the dishonesty and unreasonableness of the community of goods existed. At the same time, we have seen again in the debate today that you can also put forward very good arguments to say that the system as we are used to it, with the community of goods, in some cases working well, is positive and perhaps even better than when people marry under prenup. I therefore note that there has been a very lively debate in this Chamber today on a subject which will undoubtedly interest many people. The aim of the bill is clear: the standard overall community of goods is replaced by a limited community. The need for this change was discussed in the Chamber. According to some groups, the current system is satisfactory. According to other groups, and to this end I count the groups of the initiators, this bill concerns the necessary modernisation of matrimonial property law, it is more in line with current times and the wishes of practice and is more in line with the rest of Europe. I think most people will eventually continue to opt for the main system of the law. That is why it is very important that it is a clear system and it is good that the debate has taken place on the substance. One advantage of the proposed main system is that private debts that have been withheld will not simply be borne by the spouse. Today, however, there has also been an exchange of views on the fact that there are disadvantages to a new system, which again do not exist in the current system. But of course there are also disadvantages, as the initiators have shown in detail. What I like very much is that tonight all the spokesmen have also spoken about the institution of marriage, which creates a special commitment between two people. The question is raised as to whether this connection of fate extends from marriage to marriage, or whether that connection of fate should actually extend to what husbands have already built up before marriage and what they inherit or obtain from donations over time. The Chamber is also divided on this question. I can say that the bill allows husbands the freedom to fill in mutual destiny as they see fit. We have also discussed the exceptional position which the Netherlands would have in Europe with the current system. Mrs Van Toorenburg said in the first term that it is up to the Netherlands to pursue its own course in the area of family law and that we are proud to do so. This can be done, but our own course is without prejudice to the fact that we can also look critically at our own system and that of other countries. If our system doesn't fit in with this time, it might be time to adjust it. A great deal has then been said about the administrative obligation, most recently in the debates between initiator Van Oosten and members of the Chamber. Of course, the cabinet is not in favour of additional burdens for our residents. It is therefore important to emphasise that the legislative proposal does not include an administrative obligation. After all, there is a presumption of evidence as a safety net. Goods of which the spouses cannot demonstrate their private character fall into the community. But I do understand the discussion that was just being held, of course. Without administration, it may be unclear what private property a good belongs to and it may well come into the community due to the suspicion of evidence. It is good that Mr Van Oosten pointed out that modern developments in the field of Internet banking and the like and the fact that many invoices are digital nowadays have reduced the risk of data loss than ever before. I agree with Mr Van Nispen when he says that there can be some kind of inequality if one party administers everything neatly and the other does not. Then you may be empty-handed. The same is true of the community of goods, but in a different way. So there are advantages and disadvantages to both systems. Of course, in purchasing many small goods, the presumption of proof or lack of administration will not be a major problem. With a large purchase, you can expect people to think better about whether it belongs in the community or not in practice. Then you can also expect that a choice made will be better recorded, or that later the choice that one would have wanted to make will be honored. In many cases there will be documents on this subject. I think it is particularly important that the main system does not lead to more resolution problems. With a standard limited community with different assets, settlement can of course be complex, but that is no different in the situation of the community of goods. Even now, couples who have been married in the whole community may face multiple assets, for example if a spouse has acquired a inheritance with an exclusion clause. When I look at the field in this way, I see that there are practical advantages and disadvantages to the current system and the newly proposed system and that dogmatic thinking can be different from different backgrounds about the existing system and the future system. Also driven from practice, you can come up with examples in which the current system is better for some people in marriage or after it and examples in which the future system will be better for other people in marriage or after it. In this debate, the cabinet has heard well the pros and cons of the bill. Each point can be approached from different angles. I have briefly touched on a number of important points. I myself, not only because of Professor Kleijn's book and what he taught me at the time, am positive and sympathetic to the proposal. The acceptance of this proposal depends in particular on whether the Court considers it a desirable proposal. From a legal point of view, I see no objection to the bill. That is why I leave the verdict on the bill to the Chamber. I come to a number of questions. I will then deliver an opinion on the amendments. Mr Segers asked me in the first term whether people would have to go to a notary more often after the proposed amendment, and whether that could still be investigated. On the basis of the proposal, the property acquired by couples from their cohabitation falls into the later marital community. They don't have to go to a notary for that. If either of them also wants to bring their own premarital property into the community, the person concerned will have to record it. The same applies, for example, to inheritances acquired during marriage. I expect that the majority of people will not have the need to record that. So they don't have to call on a notary either. I did ask the Royal Notarial Professional Organization. It indicates that, in general, it is not possible to say whether the amendment of the law will increase the frequency of recourse to the notary. Mr Van Wijngaarden has asked for practical information for those who wish to marry. This is an important change in matrimonial property law, which will affect many people. Publicity about this bill, which fortunately already exists to a large extent, will contribute to a broad awareness of the new system. I expect that, in particular, the Royal Notarial Professional Organisation, as well as all the other parties involved in the preparation of a marriage or who provide information during or after the end of the marriage, will provide information on the consequences of the conclusion of a marriage and that this information will be adapted and made sufficiently available. Of course, I will adjust the information about this change myself on the government website, so that this information is up-to-date. Three amendments have been tabled. This has been discussed in detail and the initiators have given a detailed explanation. In general, on behalf of the cabinet, I agree with the conclusions of the initiators of the amendments. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u118	I gave an oral hand-off to the initiators. This is an adjustment to the amendment we have tabled on the choice system. We are assuming a basic system, which is indeed the fallback option, but we are still proposing the freedom of choice to opt for a community of goods among civil servants. What is the Minister's opinion on this hand-out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u119	I understand the debate on this very well. In itself, the idea of a choice is naturally sympathetic. That could indeed mean saying: we have thought carefully about it, we have been well informed and we choose one system or another. At the same time, however, I see major problems in the feasibility of this idea. People should have that choice registered with the civil servant. This simply means that we have to make 65,000 registrations a year. The civil status official must keep that record and this will undoubtedly lead to implementation costs. The civil status official will also have to have access to the matrimonial property register. As a result, changes to ICT are needed, and this will also cost a lot. The civil servant will eventually face a large number of people, perhaps not 65,000 but half of them, who say: yes but, how should I make that choice, because I have not yet been sufficiently briefed? What do you do? One thing is certain: the civil servant is not sufficiently equipped to advise people adequately. There is also the possibility that people do not make a choice and then the question arises as to which matrimonial property regime then applies. All things considered, the government considers that a single basic system, which can then be waived by prenuptial terms, should be preferred. Whatever standard that should be, I'd like to leave it to the House's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u120	It's a special night. We have heard three Liberal speakers speak behind the cathedral, and I have to say that at least the Christian Union Group is more liberal than the Liberal spokesmen on that side. We want freedom of choice. Anyway, it's registered. There's an official who has to register when people show up. What we are asking for is just one extra booth for those people who say very consciously that they simply go along with that basic system without information and without horns and bells. Most people will go along with that, but here are couples who very consciously choose community of goods. Then this liberal minister says: I do not want this freedom of choice, and if you want it, you have to pay extra. Is that tonight's conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u121	Let's put that liberalism aside. If you go all the way through the reasoning, you should have far more choices than just the choice between the community of goods and the limited community of goods that the initiators are now proposing. Then you should also have a choice for total exclusion or for the exclusion of liability. If you continue and think a choice is important, you should be able to choose from the wide palette. That's what makes it complicated. That is why it is so good that this debate is taking place here, because it is about a fundamental choice. Do you want one, namely community of goods with all the advantages and disadvantages associated with it, or do you want the other, i.e. prenup, let me put it this way, and a limitation where, according to the initiators, you choose to protect parties on a number of points? Each party in this Chamber will then have to decide whether or not it supports its underlying principles. I can't make it prettier than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u122	This brings us to the end of the first period of examination of this initiative proposal. We'll continue with the second term immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u123	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators and, of course, their support for answering the large number of questions. There were really good answers; let me start with that observation. I mean that sincerely. There has been careful and good answers to our questions. I dare to doubt whether the whole of the Netherlands was glued to the pipe tonight to see what might happen to our matrimonial property law, but it is about something. It is about the profound property consequences that marriage can have. Today, almost four out of ten people are divorced and they are faced with this in the future. So it's about something. What is the most desirable right that should be in the law? That is a right that people think is just, that is easy to understand and does not judge. This debate concerns the question of which system is included. I have to say, I haven't quite figured that out yet. Let me start by returning to the choice system. I still don't quite understand what's against that. We now have the overall community of goods, which people fall back on if they haven't made a choice. In the future, we may have the limited community of goods, on which people who have not been specifically informed and have not made a choice. So, in both cases, people fall back on that. So what is against giving people that choice, especially with the hand-off that Mr Segers has done on our behalf? A number of arguments have been wiped off the table. The remaining objections, which I have just heard from the Minister, I do not find convincing. The charm is right that people who still choose that lot connection can do so with retroactive effect, because that is still allowed to do so and those who choose to share everything together do not have to go to the notary. I still think that is a charming idea, so I really hope that the amended amendment on this choice system can count on a better assessment. Overall, my critical interruptions do not alter the fact that I do see the good side of this proposal. I have also explicitly appointed it in the first term. It can prevent problems, for example in the area of premarital debts. But I also see disadvantages. I do not think it is particularly charming that it continues with the individualization of society. The authors say that the proposed system is not more complicated. I wonder if it really isn't. Isn't the current system with the overall community of goods simply simpler? Does the proposed system not lead to more legal proceedings rather than less? I'm not quite sure yet. The answer that it does not contribute to a worse financial situation for women was well explained to me. As far as I am concerned, therefore, that concern has been taken away. I myself have tabled two amendments on fairness corrections. I cannot entirely escape the impression that the authors of these amendments see them as a bit of pollution of their proposal. I'm just saying it in my own words. Since I can understand that, I suggest that I also make motions in which I ask the government to come forward with proposals. In this way, it will be possible to identify again or to identify the ways in which this can be developed responsibly. However, I am convinced that something must be done to correct the most poignant situations. That is why I have tabled two motions on this point. Then I'll ask you a few more questions and I'll make one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as early as 2008, during the debate on matrimonial property law, the issue of introducing a fair correction by the judge was discussed in order to counter the negative effects of cold exclusion;]] [[noting that, at the Court's request, investigations have subsequently been carried out showing that this is being carried out in more and more countries and that there are grounds for including in the law provisions to counter the effects of cold exclusion;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Segers and Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33987-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u124	It is now a matter of urgency to request the government to submit legislative proposals by way of a motion. Is it not more careful to ask the government first to take a closer look at the advantages and disadvantages of an extra equity correction? We've already heard that one. After that, it can be re-examined as to whether this is necessary. Then we do things one step at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u125	That may be the position of the VVD, but the opposite is the case. Already in 2008, we discussed this in detail. I was there myself. Then, at the request of the Chamber, that happened precisely because of the reasoning as to whether we would not be going too quickly, an extensive investigation was launched. I refer to Mr Van Wijngaarden and I have already pointed this out to him. So he could have looked at that. I have tabled an amendment. I sent that around in concept a week ago. There's all these sources in there. If we adopt the amendment on Tuesday, there is still a chance; I would like to invite Mr Van Wijngaarden to do so, and indeed the legislative proposal will be amended. It is precisely by way of motion that I am prepared to meet the proposers by taking a step back and saying: let the government come up with a proposal. That is why I do not really understand these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u126	We are now discussing an initiative proposal. Now the equity correction is brought in. I would arrange that point in a separate trajectory. Mr Van Nispen is free to do so, for example, by means of an own-initiative proposal. Regardless of how much research has been done, I think it is a short turn to do it this way for a moment. I ask him to give the government a very concrete research mission to look carefully at the advantages and disadvantages of whether or not there is an additional equity correction. That is a very specific, specific question. We are now also a number of years further than the years to which Mr Van Nispen refers, in which these investigations have been carried out. In the meantime, there is also a very different cabinet. That seems to me to be a much more sensible question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u127	What a strange interruption! We can keep doing research. I have tabled a detailed amendment, an amendment to the proposal from the initiators. If that cannot be supported, I would regret that, because sufficient research has been carried out, and I am prepared to put a motion to the vote so that it can all be looked at again, but then I am accused of going too fast and of having to do another investigation. I don't know how to place that. Mr. Chairman. I have a similar motion on the issue of unmarried cohabitants, because that is in fact the same reasoning. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as early as 2008, during the debate on matrimonial property law, the introduction by the judge of a correction of equity among unmarried cohabitants who have lived together as if they were married;]] [[noting that, at the Court's request, investigations have subsequently been carried out showing that more and more countries feel the need to provide some form of protection for unmarried cohabitants against property problems and that there are grounds for including such provisions in the law;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to this end, taking into account explicitly the fact that, on the one hand, respect for the autonomy of the parties and, on the other hand, the absence of protection of the weaker party...,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33987-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u128	I will finish the final sentence with an amended motion, because I have failed to do so. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u129	What are you doing with the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u130	The amendments will first be put to the vote on the voting list. If they're accepted, it makes sense for me to withdraw the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u131	Thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u132	Mr. Chairman. The question of pensions has also been satisfactorily answered. The answer is that the proposal does not change anything. I do have a question about the company. Mr Recourt has already answered an earlier question on this subject. I do have a follow-up question. It's all very technical, but if I see it correctly, a company can be partly private and partly common. Entrepreneurship assets can be partly applied and partly acquired later. Then what happens to it? What do we do with the losses that are going to belong to the company? Are these allocated proportionally in time or according to the degree of application or simply divided by half? If there is a debt but no bankruptcy, then the initiators have proposed a change. It's about the story of debt on the community. A bankruptcy of the community should also be limited to half of the community of goods, in line with the amended Article 96 (3) of the BW Book 1. Bankruptcy can be named as a community dissolution ground, so that two separate assets are created and there is still to be saved what can be saved for, for example, an entrepreneurial family in need. I have also written a motion on this point with a request to the government. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed Article 1:96 (3) of the WFD means that a private creditor can claim only half of the share capital;]] [[noting that, in the event of bankruptcy under Articles 63 and 22 of the Bankruptcy Act, the whole of the common assets can still be seized;]] [[Whereas this may give rise to a false certainty and that, in order to further implement the spirit of the bill, the right of redress in the event of bankruptcy could also be adapted and limited to half of the community of goods which could be dissolved as a result of the bankruptcy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether Articles 63 and 22 of the Bankruptcy Act should also be amended,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33987-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u133	I would remind Mr Van Nispen that he has run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u134	I am going to conclude, Mr President, but in this last motion I have explicitly taken into account Mr Van Wijngaard's wish to examine matters first if there is no investigation on a point. My final question is about takeover rights. We had asked why the right to take over can only be used if there is equity on the part of one of the spouses. Why shouldn't debt be used for this? For example, that person can borrow money to take over a common good if there is a high emotional value attached to it. If you can only pay out of equity, the acquisition right could be a wash nose. In the situation of problematic debt, there will no longer be much equity, all the more so because it is now proposed by the proposers to bring the common home into the community. The proposed amendment still loses the own half and the capital built up in it. It would be logical, then, to allow at least another takeover with, for example, private family funding. Why can't I? Finally, a final opinion from my group can only be expected at the vote on Tuesday. I shall put it to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u135	Mr Van Nispen has the advantage that two Members have listened very carefully today, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u136	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u137	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the initiators. It is indeed quite a job to make such a proposal to the Chamber and to defend it in this way. The written answers we received from the initiators were extremely high. I am very grateful to the initiators for this and say this on behalf of Pieter Omtzigt. I told you I'd ask complicated questions. The initiators have seriously studied it, many times better than the cabinet has wanted to do. I think it's okay to name that. They have taken the trouble to look seriously at the questions. To be honest, they didn't think questions were relevant and substantiated why they thought they were. I find the oral response a little weaker. Especially because it somehow doesn't go any further than: we think a change in law is necessary because the Netherlands now has an old-fashioned system; there are already a lot of deviations 30%, I don't think that much and the Netherlands is an outcast. We have already discussed this last point. We can be proud of that on many points. I seriously believe that we make people happy with a dead sparrow and we are not convinced otherwise by the initiators on this point. People assume, if their marriage goes wrong unexpectedly, that they hold their own share and have separate potencies and that any inheritances they have received are their own. If they don't keep up well, they don't. People are getting into this, because this is going to be the new general system. So people won't be very interested in the matter when they get married. Then they think they have a limited community, but because they are not informed and do not keep up with everything, they will eventually face an overall community of goods. Then they would not have chosen it, but it would have happened to them unexpectedly. This may lead to much more conflicts than it is now. There's a few things in there, too. I'm thinking about the college debt someone puts in a marriage. Two spouses and hopefully children, if they wish, can enjoy their whole lives and then people break up and then it is: please, take the blame with you again. That's what we'll do. Is that fair? What I think is even more important is that we assume that creditors agree that there might still be a shoebox somewhere in the attic where there is something else or where there is proof that it was the other's fault. If a creditor cannot claim his claim on one, he will try on the other. We must not think that it will be easy for someone to get rid of it if they have not properly administered it. It won't be. I think that is a very serious concern. Perhaps it is therefore right to opt for a choice system, in which both systems are possible. That forces people to think about what they're going to do and to get information about it. It may sound faint, but I do mean it: in the opposition to the choice system, perhaps the real desire of the initiators is betrayed, namely not to offer what people want, but to impose a new joke. That's actually what we don't want. If we really want to look at what people possibly want, do a choice system, in which people will prepare and possibly see the consequences. If we don't, we're actually giving people a new disappointment. I'd be very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u138	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators and their support. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg's compliments. From beginning to end the answer was very careful, extensive and educational, because family law is very broad. We are now going into the depths of one subject. It was nice to read how much time and energy it took the initiators to break up such a beautiful piece. Thanks also to Mrs Berndsen-Jansen, the founder of this legislative initiative. I was also pleased that the Minister paid attention to this. I know she watched tonight, even though she's very busy. It's also good to mention her. It should not be surprising that my group supports the proposal. I will briefly explain this and then put forward a motion on neutral life-form education. According to D66, Dutch family law is in need of modernisation. The current legal frameworks in the fields of personal, family, inheritance and gift law are not always consistent with practice. The number of marriages is decreasing. The number of divorces is increasing. There are more and more single people. The number of composite families is also increasing. For that reason, D66 is looking at family law widely. To get back to the proposal, my first comment is that the initiative proposal on the restriction of the Community of goods is in line with that changing reality. You can argue about it, but D66 is convinced that there is not only political support in this Chamber, but also support according to a number of studies. Marriages also often end in divorce nowadays, resulting in more complex families. Therefore, it is important to separate and protect own funds. There is also a new generation of husbands, who marry at a later age. As a result, the spouses have built up own funds independently of each other, and often in advance. The proposal protects that. As far as D66 is concerned, the proposal is a matter of principle: what is private must remain private; unless you consciously choose to share things with each other. You can still do that. We're turning the system around. We have discussed this extensively. The basic system becomes a different basic system. I come to my second point. By restricting the community of goods, creditors can no longer of course claim the premarital debts of husband A on husband B's private property. As far as D66 is concerned, this proposal weakens the position of creditors. I come to my third point. If people do choose the general community of goods, they make a conscious choice. As a result, in a divorce, they are less likely to face unexpected surprises such as debts. It is a pity that Mrs Van Toorenburg has just left, because I actually wanted to skip the international perspective on the basis of her interruption. I felt that she had a point when she said that it was not the most important thing to be in line internationally, especially when you look at other matters in the area of family law; I am honest in that. The most important thing of my speech is that modern times call for a modern matrimonial property right. Although opinions differ in this House, I do note that there is agreement among all parties that information is very important and that we should invest more in it. Perhaps, apart from this proposal, we can also do so more broadly in relation to forms of society. People are often not sufficiently aware of the legal side-effects that choosing a particular form of life can entail. There is often ignorance. In addition, choosing one or the other often does not mean a conscious choice to protect your relationship legally well. Especially when there are children involved, it is important to see how we can improve information. It is not Columbus' egg, but I think it is a good thing, and I think this debate will certainly give cause to draw attention to this by means of the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people are not always aware of the legal consequences of choosing a particular lifestyle, such as living together, marrying or having a child;]] [[noting that this lack of legal knowledge may later lead to unforeseen problems in the family-law sphere;]] [[Whereas research and legal practice show that people are often unable to make a conscious choice about their lifestyle or fail to give this legal form;]] [[Whereas non-legal protection of a form of life may have far-reaching consequences for persons who are part of the form of life, such as children;]] [[Whereas the availability of qualitative information is an important condition for the identification or otherwise of a form of life of your choice;]] [[Notes that the Government, in consultation with legal and notary professions, is developing an integrated approach to neutral life-form education and informs the Court of Justice at the end of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Yücel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33987-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u139	The Bergkamp/Yücel motion (No ) has been amended to the effect that it has now been signed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Yücel and Mr Van Wijngaarden, and reads: It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 23 (). [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people are not always aware of the legal consequences of choosing a particular lifestyle, such as living together, marrying or having a child;]] [[noting that this lack of legal knowledge may later lead to unforeseen problems in the family-law sphere;]] [[Whereas research and legal practice show that people often, out of ignorance, do not make a conscious choice about their form of life or fail to give it legal form;]] [[Whereas non-legal protection of a form of life may have far-reaching consequences for persons who are part of the form of life, including children;]] [[Whereas the availability of qualitative information is an important condition for the identification or otherwise of a form of life of your choice;]] [[Notes that the Government consults with legal and notary professions in order to encourage them to adopt an integrated approach to comprehensive neutral life-form education and inform the Court of Justice at the end of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u140	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors for their detailed reply and for this debate, although I have to say in all honesty that I have sometimes listened to the content of it with a slight bewilderment. It seems that the view of a majority has not done the quality of the argument of the initiators well. I find it disappointing that the authors have so easily ignored our amendment which regulates a choice system in the way it was proposed in the same amendment. With this proposal there is real freedom of choice on the table, so that people who want to marry in the community of goods do not have any problems nor are they charged extra for notary costs. Something like this already happens in other countries. This can just be registered. Both systems are, or will be, suitable as a standard, and even without information. In addition, at the time of completion, the civil status official shall report on the rights and obligations of married persons. This is done on its own initiative. I even gave the initiators an oral presentation of the proposal to use a system of choice by default, and thought that they would take a step in their direction, but to ensure that the community of goods could also be chosen. I believe that Mr Recourt would respond to it. This, too, does not require a notarial act. It can simply be arranged by the civil servant. This one always records very important things, and it could do so. An amendment that regulates this has now been prepared and could be ready tomorrow. So if there is any reason to respond to this, this could perhaps even be done in writing before the vote. So this can be done. I hope that in their second term the initiators will accept this hand-out and embrace my proposal. I would be sorry if they held on to a defacto fine on the community of goods. That has nothing to do with freedom of choice. Finally, I would like to say a word about administration. Mr Van Oosten said that there is no need for this or that there is no obligation, because there is a presumption of evidence. If people don't keep their receipts, they're de facto married in the community of goods. In other words, unless you're sitting in the attic every week keeping your receipts, this bill just amounts to the current community of goods, but at the beginning with the suggestion that that is not the case. So it is the current system, but with more chance of fighting divorces, I note with some disappointment. I'm rounding up. I can count, so I can imagine that this bill in this Chamber will just get a majority. But looking at the content, I do say that I hope that, in all its wisdom, the First Chamber will take a critical look at this bill and keep it under review. Finally, I wish everyone here and everyone who is watching and who lives in love with his or her loved one a lifetime of happiness in loyalty and love, without being interrupted by something as tragic as a divorce. So I wish everyone a lot of love, loyalty and a good life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u141	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the initiators for their comprehensive answer. We are very pleased with that. We had a number of questions about the law that changes the current basic system of marriage in community from goods to a basic system where you automatically marry into limited community of goods. In our view, this is a very important legislative amendment. Technically and in terms of size it may not be, but it is a very different starting point, which we can also support. As I have listened to the initiators, it is motivated by the changed time. Our current law of marrying in a community of goods is based on a principle which, fortunately, has been obsolete for decades, namely that women are incapable of acting, that women are mainly at home and that the man works. Fortunately, in recent times in our society, we have made a huge step in emancipation, and in the freedom and equality of men and women. In the meantime, I think we can see that in the legal sense, fortunately very often also in society, we have brought that freedom and equality quite a long way. There is a law that fits well with modern times, but also with how people stand in life today. The view of the Labour Party is that this law is very much in line with modern times. I therefore welcome the fact that it is being taken into account, but perhaps symbolically, from the point of view that women are incapable of action or would have an unequal position. I would like to add that it is really secondary, but this law symbolizes in my view that we face both sexes or both partners of the same sex equally when they marry. The bill does not only fit in with the way we look at the position of men and women at the present time and the way we set up our lives. I also use very positive words for this because in recent years we have seen more and more families and individuals end up in complex debt situations. There may also be all kinds of conflicts over inheritances. Inequality and injustices are a greater risk in the current basic system than in the new basic system if this bill is adopted, so if you marry into a limited community of goods. I would like to admit to the Christian Union, the SGP and the CDA that the new basic system will also have a number of risks. It is not the case that we are now moving towards a system that has no disadvantages and that will not pose risks here and there. I am referring in particular to the assumption that you must administer. Or not. Then that rule of suspicion of evidence comes into effect. So we will look very closely at that. That is why I signed Mrs Bergkamp's motion with complete conviction. It is really very important to invest well in the coming years in neutral information about the different forms of life, so that people really consciously or not make an active choice and otherwise deliberately fall back on the new basic system. I will be presenting a positive opinion to my group. But you won't be surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u142	Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiators for the comprehensive and careful response. This is not easy on such a subject that many people in the Chamber are very concerned for very understandable reasons. You can see that family law is still looked at very differently. The challenge of this debate has been to catch that spirit of time, in which family law has to breathe with it, a little bit. I note that this has only partially been achieved. You can see that there are still important differences in the way we look at it. In any case, it is clear how the VVD looks at it. As far as we are concerned, we are saying goodbye to an obsolete system from the time when the only right of women was the kitchen. Mr Recourt made a very striking reference to this. It's been a long time. Many countries have already preceded us. Apparently, good wine must ripen for a long time. I also think it is important to say here that we simply think this system as a basic system is better. We think it's more honest and we think it's more contemporary. If you want it different, you can still do it. The idea of sharing what you're building together is very appealing to us. That is why we have great support and appreciation for this initiative. We also have great appreciation for Mrs Berndsen-Steur. Excuse me, her name is Berndsen-Jansen. I don't know if she's still watching. I called her that by mistake once before, and she didn't like that at all. I don't think she likes it now either. I want to say something about living together. That is an important point. As far as I am concerned, the unmarried cohabitation is a beautiful form of society that we should not go to judge. We must be careful not to try to incorporate this form of society into legislation. A motion has been tabled to link certain rights to living together. I'm a little worried about that. I don't think it's appropriate to go and judge that. Perhaps Mr Van Nispen can take away my concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u143	Then we debate the other way around. We're not gonna do that. But Mr Van Nispen does have a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u144	My question is whether Mr Van Wijngaarden has read my amendment correctly. What I do absolutely not do is to always give people who are going to live with one another a right to fair compensation. I explicitly ruled that out. This is also explained in detail. The simple question is whether Mr Van Wijngaarden has read the amendment correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u145	My concern is this. If you are going to link all kinds of legal effects, rights and duties to living together in any way, then you are going to set a threshold for people to live together. I find the charm of living together that this is a free choice for people, without having to worry about what it all means and what it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u146	I regret that Mr Van Wijngaarden is making a caricature of my proposal. It explicitly states that it concerns the people who live unmarriedly together as if they were married, which means that they must have a common household. It says in the explanatory statement that it must be a long-term cohabitation that is nothing different from a marriage than that no marriage has taken place. Don't try to make a caricature out of it now. You may, of course, express your concerns and ask what the risks are now. However, it is obvious that the proposal deals with the most poignant situations that may arise if people have been unmarried for many years, with an extremely unreasonable outcome, namely that one person is left destitute, while the other one runs away with everything. That is what my proposal is about, so please do not try to make a caricature of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u147	In all seriousness: that is by no means my intention. But I think if people wanted to marry, they would have. If we live together now suddenly equate to being married, then I am very concerned. Then people should've gotten married. I believe that people also have their own responsibility in this respect. Then I'll come to the briefing. A great deal has been said about this, including by my group. I think there really is a huge role here for the notary. Not everyone immediately has to make an appointment with the notary and then draw the scholarship, but fortunately the notary is doing very well, developing their own websites and apps, where you can find independent information. I make a comparison with the website pharmacy.nl. This is a website operated by pharmacists, with scientifically validated information on medicines, the active substance et cetera. I would like it very much if the notary would do something like this, but I do think that there is first and foremost a responsibility for the notary itself. So far, people have really shown themselves to be able and willing to take on that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u148	I have a question about that, because I want to understand the VVD. In my view, a very important outcome of this debate is that information is important to everyone. Then you can talk about who's gonna organize that. Let me give you an example of sexual education. The Chamber has said that this must be organized from within the Empire through education. Why should the government, when it comes to such an important issue, not have a role to play in promoting it? After all, we are changing the laws here. Of course, everyone, the legal practice and the notary, has their own responsibility. The VVD rightly says that you can find information on all kinds of websites. But the point is, when you're dealing with certain questions, you can easily get the information. My question to the VVD is very specific: does the VVD agree that there is a role for the public authorities in perhaps coordination, direction and direction in order to achieve good life-form neutral information?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u149	I think it is a good thing to come up with this kind of information, but as a liberal party, D66 will agree with me that if the government takes matters up, this does not always have to lead to the best result. There are already initiatives from the market, such as the notary phone. That's a free number. Anyone can call that for free every day. There you can get free information from real notaries, real experts. Frankly, I have much more financing in such initiatives than in very well-meaning and understandable government campaigns in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u150	We're talking a little bit past each other. The appeal I have just made with a motion is not so much that the government is giving information, but that the government is going to see how communication and information can come to their senses and be organized as well as possible, by the notary and legal practice. I think we both agree, but there was some confusion in our communication. That is why information is so important. I am not concerned that the Empire itself provides information, but it provides some kind of guidance. If the law is changed, I think people are entitled to a lot of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u151	At least that sounds a lot more reasonable to me than the government has to do it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u152	It also raises a question for me. I'd like to know if the VVD thinks this is a major legislative change for marriage law. For decades, people in the Netherlands have assumed that they were getting married in the community of goods. Now we turn it around. Does the VVD agree with me that this justifies the fact that there is a very good information campaign? Due to public involvement, it is important for my party to secure neutrality well, better or maximum, as far as possible. I do not want to leave the information to market players at all. I would very much like to do it in consultation with all the actors and organisations involved. However, the importance of the government is not underestimated here either, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u153	I think we all have the same need here, but we may differ a little bit on the question of which roads are best. I think the rest of the Chamber will find that interesting, too. The notary ask how it picks up this glove, how it wants to work on informing people. I want to know the answer to that question first and then I'll look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u154	I see Mrs. Yücel has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u155	Does Mr Van Wijngaarden say that it will be ready for him if the notaries, the lawyers and all the other parties say that they can do so well in the market themselves? In this way, according to the VVD, information according to lifestyle is guaranteed in all neutrality? Can I establish that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u156	No. The reason why I think that we should have a serious discussion about this indeed major legislative amendment, which is also due to be passed by the First Chamber, is that I want to know how they are going to do it. After that, we are going to draw conclusions. So I am not drawing any conclusions at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u157	I am curious to see what Mr Van Wijngaarden, as a liberal, thinks of our proposal to combine the choice of a basic system with more freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u158	I very much appreciate that Mr Segers is trying to think constructively with this initiative proposal. We have also discussed this extensively in the first period. I've been thinking about what I think. I went into politics because I want to make life easier for people, too. When I get married, I just don't feel like digging into which system to choose. I think that goes for a lot of people. People just don't feel like it at all. That's why I think it's okay that when you get married, when you're at City Hall or Town Hall, you get the standard system that we think is the best system here as a political system. That appeals to me most.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u159	Is Mr Van Wijngaarden prepared to give a hand to people who feel like making a very conscious choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u160	I think that's a bit of a weird suggestion in that question, to be honest. Here is a proposal for a basic system. That is what this debate is about. I, like other spokesmen, have indicated why this seems to us to be the best basic system. If you want it any different, you go to the notary. Fortunately, there is a lot of competition there thanks to market forces, with ever lower rates. This is not a very complicated act, so you can arrange it with the notary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u161	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start by thanking you. You started this afternoon with the beautiful subject of phosphate rights, with derogation and netting in the phosphate ceiling and so on, and then you had to switch to this subject. I think you, as our chairman, deserve a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u162	I have a rich life, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u163	I would also like to thank the initiators for their reply, both in writing and orally this evening. I actually only got into this debate by mistake. My colleague, Mr Van der Staaij, had a double appointment in the first term and he asked me if I wanted to finish. I said, "Yeah, this tastes like more." So that indicates that I think we have had a nice and good debate with each other. Thank you for that. I have a few comments to make. In general, I agree with Mr Segers and Mrs Van Toorenburg, including Mr Segers' fine closing wish. I'm not gonna try to get over that. Those words were so beautiful, he could be a preacher. I don't know, but it was fantastic. I'm just gonna go along with it. I don't understand the praises of some of my colleagues. They establish a relationship between this initiative proposal and emancipation and say that we are finally going to free women from the yoke of the past. Perhaps the initiators would like to say something about that. I honestly don't get it at all. I believe that in history we have invented the general community of goods to protect women. Before that, she really had a problem. Then it was the man who deserved it. In those days, most women were at home. It's not even like that with us anymore. With us, as many women as with the VVD. So that time is over. Then we invented the community of goods. So now we are taking a step back in history by offering less protection than in the past. A SGP is always looking ahead, so I find it difficult to give a positive advice to my group on this proposal for a directive on the protection of women. We consider women to be more worthy of protection than the liberal and left-wing parties seem to be doing. I also wonder if there is a need to change the system. I don't see him. I do see political preferences. There may be. That's a good right of everyone. The initiators have it. We have it ourselves. It's okay. But I don't see any need. The question is whether, if you want to change it, you should impose it unilaterally. We have discussed the choice system in detail. I do see a bit of a hinge in this whole treatment. I am therefore very interested in the contribution of the initiators to this point in the second term. At least in the first term, I did not find their input convincing. We give people choices everywhere. That is precisely the society we are setting up with each other. In the input of sure the VVD and D66 are normally introduced everywhere choices and no obligations anywhere. We're trying to minimize those obligations. Here, however, we simply impose an obligation without offering a choice. Are people capable of making a choice? It would be foolish to say in this Parliament that people can choose a partner, that they can choose their career, choose a study and choose a job, that they know very well whether to buy a house or not, how big that house is and how to do the financing, but whether to marry in a community of goods or not, they don't know that. They don't know anything about that. That's what Father Stand for them. I can't rhyme with it. The only reason you wouldn't allow a choice is because I think from a political point of view you would like to discourage a general community of goods. Then I can understand. Then you make it difficult, then you put charges on it, then you make a visit to the notary. But I do not see any inherent reasons for doing so. However, I can see that someone has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u164	It's a very small helper. I find it even more striking that they can apparently opt for an association agreement with Ukraine. If there's anything complicated, that's it. It's a lot harder than the whole prenup.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u165	Well, I got the conviction yesterday that the coalition doesn't trust the voter either. But the opposition, including D66, does. Is information necessary? That was said: information is necessary if you are to be able to make that choice. I say that information is necessary in relation to the basic model of the initiators. You must know very well what you're doing, because if you don't realize that you're allowed to keep a good administration from the start, I'm going to say "may" because I'm going to be told that it's not a duty, we know that with each other, and if you don't realize the importance of keeping that administration, you'll end up in a community of goods. Then you'll be told a sausage if you like that sausage, I don't like it so much, but there are people who do want it and it turns out to be cheese and you don't like cheese. Do you realize what you're doing? It is precisely in this model that this information is urgently needed. One final question is whether this information is available or not. I hear the initiators say that in this digital age things are all easier. Perhaps that will be the case in 20 years or 30 years, but at least not yet. We've digitized almost everything. In an interruption, I mentioned the example of a bank where you can extract information from the system for another 15 months. You can also make a written request. You'll get more back, but no more than seven years. The ideal duration of the form of society, including dating, engagement, if people still marry and then divorce, is therefore between fifteen months and seven years. If you go over those seven years, you're really gonna have to do it again with your shoeboxes. In addition, the big question is whether you still have them and whether they provide sufficient evidence. Frankly, the amendment on that choice system is important for my group when considering what to do with this legislative proposal. The initiators will not fail to tell me that I came here with the idea that my group would not see so much in this bill. However, I think this amendment is really important. I will not say here that my group will vote in favour of the legislative proposal if the amendment is adopted; I am not yet there. But I am going to think about it, because I think this amendment is absolutely essential. Do you want to offer that possibility at all? I shall therefore have to speak out loud in the group. The amendment is, however, so important to me that I say: my group is ahead of us on no, but we will have it considered very heavily in the recitals. However, if it becomes a no, the initiators will not be surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u166	I give the floor to Mr Recourt for the second term of the initiators. I see he wants to speak first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u167	Mr. Chairman. I am the first and only speaker. I will be brief, but I will answer the questions that are still alive. In fact, the main question that is going on throughout the debate is: isn't a choice system better? I am grateful to Mr Segers for what he says. If we still have to make a choice and a safety net, he thinks we can make our choice, but he wants us to at least make it possible to opt for the general community at the civil level. The amendment is still being amended and it is difficult to respond to an amendment we do not know. So there is still a small reservation in our response. Nevertheless, I am going to disappoint Mr Segers and others, including Mr Dijkgraaf. We are left with a practical problem, for example in the sense that a civil servant should be able to record and amend the marriage register, which is now reserved for a notary. That can be arranged in theory, and this practical problem is not the most strong one. But we also have some fundamental problems and objections. We believe that the system of the limited community, as we propose, is a better system. It protects more and it fits more with this time of year. That is what we stand for as proposers. The free choice consists of the fact that there are many other forms you can choose for. You can choose the old-fashioned system of overall community, but there are many netting models and other possibilities of prenuptial terms that you can also choose. That's why you have to go to the notary. It would then be a little silly to pick out one possibility, to favour it and to lay it down at the bourgeois level, and to leave the other possibilities with the notary. In short, there are many choices and we cannot and do not want to place them with the civil servant. There we only do that one safety net, because we think it's better than the current system. I think that was the most important question, but there are still a number of other questions. For example, the SP had a question about the right to take over. I'm gonna have to find out which ticket goes with that. Yeah, there it is. The question was: can you take out a private loan to meet your partner's debt? Yeah, you can, you can just do that. As a private person you take on a loan, for example with your family, you take over the debt, it becomes your private debt and that loan is also private. So you can just finance private debts from the community and they go out of private property. A second point was whether you can have a loan partly within the community and partly outside the community. The answer to that is no. For example, you can have a community asset used by the company or the other way around. The car of the company outside the community can be used within the community. The use of these goods is therefore possible, but the company itself is either within or outside the community. The same applies to debts of that community. They can't be placed half inside and half outside the community. I come to a question from Mr Dijkgraaf on the administration of seven years. It's true that that's the maximum. At least, as far as I know, banks' administrative obligations are seven years and then they can throw it away. But things that really matter, for example, donations, inheritances and bequests are all recorded on papers that really last longer than seven years. If those papers, for example by a fire, do not exist within yourself for seven years or longer, third parties may also provide that evidence, such as the notary. Indeed, you may not be able to produce a bank statement from your savings account anymore. Then after more than seven years of marriage, that savings account will indeed become joint, and then you'll only have half of it. That's the consequence. For really fundamental matters, in many cases over a much longer period of time there is evidence to be provided by yourself or by someone else. I would also like to thank the SGP for its emancipation struggle. Of course, we know the men's brothers as people who lead the way in emancipation. I hope that in my first term I have been clear enough that the position of women is not affected by this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u168	How wonderful that Mr Recourt's words were recorded in the Acts. With regard to the previous point, I note that the model in which what you have built for your marriage remains private and does not fall into the community only applies to those people who have somehow had a large sum of money that is notarial or otherwise committed. Normal money flows I'm thinking of building a savings account after seven years. So we are talking about a very small percentage to which it applies. Not that many people will inherit a million from their grandfather. Do we have to set up the basic system for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u169	No, it's the other way around. A lot of things are recorded anyway. Things you keep in your shoebox are also kept for more than seven years. The matters that are notarially laid down in a deed, a donation or whatever, are longer to be proved. In short, there's still a lot to prove. In addition, the more fundamental, the bigger, the more valuable the case, whether it's emotional or financial, the more likely you'll still have evidence after seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u170	That's how I understood it, but it's going to be 95 out of 100 people, and I'm going to be fishing even a number from the sky, but in that order of magnitude, it's not going to be such high amounts that are notarized. They did save up and have some shares on which they made a profit. That's all gone, that's all falling into the community. For 95% of the people, therefore, the law does not make any sense, and for that 5% it does, when it comes to large sums of money that have been notarially committed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u171	That's a caricature. That 95% can get an inheritance, keep a debt from a first marriage or something. Indeed, if you have $5,000 in your savings account and you divorced seven, eight, nine or maybe twenty years later and didn't provide proof, half is for your partner. That is indeed the choice system. If you deliberately or unconsciously do not administrate and it is nowhere else to be found, and the partner also disputes it, then that comes with it, because if the parties agree on it, nothing is going on then you should not engage in an endless legal battle. Then it's just assumed that the amount is yours together. I come to the final point. That's what keeps administrating. Several parties have said it, if you don't administrate, you're actually just going back to the system as it existed. That's pertinently not true. Again, I'm not talking about bequests, inheritances, and so on. They're all out of the picture. As proposers, we have not heard any criticism from anyone. For the rest, it is not a question of every Sunday, or every Saturday for the SGP, throwing shoe boxes full of receipts. In our system, the ability to enter during the marriage is shared power. Of the assets acquired for this purpose, it has long been recorded by the notary or by any other means that it is private. In short, we believe that we are really taking a step forward in the area of matrimonial property law, which we are making a law that protects better, which is also in line with the present times and which will bring many years of pleasure to many. For a few, the conflict will come, but you have it with every system. No system is perfect. The motions are addressed to the government, so we will not say anything about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u172	Thank you very much. I invite the Minister for further advice and an opinion on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u173	Mr. Chairman. The motions are indeed addressed to the government. In the motion in part No. 20 members call on Van Nispen, Segers and Dijkgraaf to apply a fair correction in the event of cold exclusion. I note that the law "s', and so it was exchanged at the time in 2011 and 2012 "s', provides for two fairness exclusions. The first is the possibility of adapting any agreements. That is Article 248, the general functioning of reasonableness and fairness. Furthermore, there is Article 258, the unforeseen circumstances. There is ample case law on this and a lot of experience has been gained. I do not therefore see any reason to make any other arrangement on top of that. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 21, a motion by Mr Van Nispen. It invites the government to make proposals to regulate the system of unmarried cohabitants. In my opinion, in our system, we have people living together who choose to live together without making any arrangements, cohabitants who choose to do so on the basis of a social contract or a registered partnership, and people living together who like it so much that they want to make it a marriage. That's all the flavors we have. All these flavors have the beautiful starting point that everyone can choose how they want to explain the way they live together. On top of that, in the situation where, for example, children were born from living together, we made explicit agreements that in that case there is the possibility of child alimony. So there is no reason for the government to take care of that. I must therefore discourage the motion. In the motion in part No. 22 asks Mr Van Nispen to pay attention to two articles of the Dutch Bankruptcy Act and asks the government to examine whether it is desirable to amend them. I would be happy to send a letter to the Chamber after the summer in which, following this bill, I reflect on those two articles of the Bankruptcy Act. If I may explain the motion in this way, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide. I understand that at the motion in part No. 23 is an amended motion. I therefore respond to the amended motion. It invites the Government to consult with legal practitioners and notaries to encourage them to adopt an integrated approach to information and to inform the Court of Justice at the end of 2016. I would be happy to comment on what is requested in that motion, because I think it is important that the professional groups concerned, not only the notary but also all the other advisors who advise in the preliminaries of marriage, shape their information in a good way. On top of that, I have already said that I am, of course, prepared to do exactly the same thing we are doing now when people want to have information about the government, but then adapted to the new system, if the Parliament approves it in a broad sense. With this explanation, I leave the opinion on the amended motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u174	I have an enlightening question for the Minister. What happens in terms of information when such an integrated information approach is developed for people who do not appear in the notaries or the other professional groups involved in the field to develop the approach together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u175	They will fall back on the same information that is now provided by the public authorities, for example on state government.nl, the Legal Assistance Council's judge, or all other possibilities available, such as information provided by municipalities. All that remains the same, but adapted to the new situation. What I am not going to do is to develop a new campaign from the government or to carry out information activities other than what we are already doing. We are now giving objective and clear information on the current situation. I think we should do the same in a new situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u176	I have one more question about the final motion. I thank the Minister for the Chamber's judgment and for his explanation. I think it is still important, for the sake of certainty, to say that it is a question of broad, life-form-neutral information. So the hook should not only be the law, but together with people from the notary and legal practice, we need to look closely at everything that is going on in the field of life forms. So it is not just about the legislative proposal, it is also about information in a broader sense. We had also written down the word "wider." I hope this is not a problem for the Minister, but I would like to state it explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u177	I would like to discuss this in consultation with all these professions. But of course we have to understand that the notary will not necessarily give extensive advice about living together, because it may not have any interest in that. However, I do think that all aspects of that gremium will pass when people come to the notary with the question of whether they can be informed about what is best for them. So I think it is right that I should bring this subject to the attention of the professional group in the broad sense, as Mrs Bergkamp asks, and that I insist that the form to be followed should be provided with information in a broad sense, as requested in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u178	Thank you for this point too. I am not saying this to be too keen on this, but I think it is important that the Minister also thinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u179	No, I'm not. I stopped doing that a long time ago. It makes you very nervous, and it makes you sleep badly. My experience is that you shouldn't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u180	That's what you get for dropping a silence like that. But to finish my sentence, I think it is also important for the Minister to think about what is needed when it comes to people who do not come to the notary or the law. Can the Minister take another critical look at that? I do not mean by that that the notary or the legal practice should do so. I understand the Minister's comment, but it would also be nice for the Minister to reflect on this and take this issue into account in the approach that is being sent to the Chamber. That is actually my request to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u181	That is then without leaving more monkeys on the shoulder than the government already has at the moment. We believe that in our information we should simply do what we do. We are now doing so under the current system, and we are going to do so under the new system. In addition, we also pay attention to alternatives. The government informs people widely and objectively about this without encouraging people to make a particular choice or to have an opinion on it. I will. If that's what Mrs Bergkamp means by reflection, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-13.u182	The vote on Tuesday will take place on the law, the amendments and the motions. I would particularly like to thank Mrs Swinkels, Mr Recourt, Mr Van Oosten and the Minister for Security and Justice. I would also like to thank all those present and wish you all a safe journey back home.
