ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u1	We are still going to try to take steps today, although the debate may last until no later than 3.30 p.m., also due to other commitments from the Minister. I would ask the Members of the House to show some self-reflection in the event of interruptions, which are, of course, permitted. Otherwise, I might have to get tough, and I'd rather not be. The Minister will respond very much to the point, she said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Asante. She kept a wonderful story in which she also indicated from her personal perspective how important clarity about the rating of degrees and names of higher education courses in the Netherlands is. It is of course of the utmost importance for those who are least informed, and perhaps also for those who belong to the first generation, to know what a diploma is worth. We talk about this very often, and that is also at the heart of this bill: knowing what it is worth, being transparent about it, and bearing social responsibility. A law can never solve everything, I'll say that right away. Mr Duisenberg has asked a few times what I am doing in the field of communication. I am not going to repeat all this here, because he knows more than anyone what we are doing about it. Students themselves must always remain critical, but at the same time it is our responsibility to ensure that the information available is reliable for students and arriving students, and that is what we are doing with this law. In view of the time limit, I would first of all like to address the issues on which most of the amendments have been tabled and most of the questions have been asked. This means that I start with the questions on naming, then I deal with the issue of social responsibility and then I see how far I can get. I would like to say to the Chamber that I am prepared to reply in writing on those other points, so that perhaps we can make progress in this respect too. On the subject of naming, I would like to refer to Mr Beertema's motion, which was supported by the Chamber, which asked for clarity in the area of naming and transparency. I am glad to see that the whole Chamber wants that to be clarified, and that it is also felt that new legislation is needed because the resources we have had so far, such as the inspection mission, Mr Bishop, early on, are inadequate. This means that students can still be misled and start training with false expectations. Of course, this is most likely to occur if an organisation wrongly calls itself a university or a university of higher education and, moreover, wrongly proposes degrees. That is why I am no longer explicitly discussing degrees here today, which has a major agreement with the discussion on names. In response to Mr Bruins, I say that some institutions are so sophisticated that this is difficult or difficult for the average student or citizen to see. So I do not think communication on this is enough. Mr Van Dijk already referred to examples from 2009. I do not know what institutions this was about, but I do say that institutions that try to mislead students with wrong names will no longer have room for this if this bill is adopted. It could well be that institutions are among those that have been discussed before. In reply to Mr Bishop, this bill does not protect terms such as HBO level and WO training, and with convenient marketing new concepts can always be found. On this point, too, a law can do a lot, but not everything. We must always be there and we must always be well informed. Several MPs also asked how often this occurs. We know examples from the past of concrete deception, and we have also seen the example of Alhurra University. This institution has been prosecuted and a fine has been imposed, but that was only possible because the judge found falsehood in writing there. That does not always have to be seen, so I think that is an insufficient legal basis to counter what I want to combat, namely the general misdirection of students. Mr Beertema and Mr Rog and others have asked questions about the naming of Dutch institutions. In particular, the question arises as to whether colleges can now also call themselves universities. Mr Van Meenen asked how that translates into foreign language. The naming of Dutch higher education in HBO and wo has a lot to do with our binary system. We have higher education and scientific education. We call them both higher education, but they are really two different sectors. Both therefore also have their own task. As a result, it is obvious that the distinction between these institutions is expressed in their names. In any language, I say to Mr Rog. In other countries with a binary system, the difference in identity is also expressed, for example in Finland and Germany. The fact that the Netherlands would be the only country does not really apply. The main rule is that institutions established in the Netherlands may only use the name "university" or "high school" if they are according to the WHW university or college, i.e. the funded and non-costed WHW institutions. It is important to also protect the widely used English terms, because otherwise institutions can easily circumvent the rules. This means that our well-known universities, such as Utrecht University, and the philosophical universities, such as Protestant University, can simply use the term "university." It also means that the Islamic University of Rotterdam, which only has accreditations for HBO programmes, and Webster University are not a university. So they have to change their name. The term "high school" is reserved for funded colleges and non-cost higher education institutions, such as the LOI Hogeschool. Mr Van Meenen asked about the English translation and to what extent it is a problem that I prescribe that universities abroad should only use the term 'university of applied sciences'. I don't think that's a problem. This is also happening in other countries. It fits very well with our binary system, with two types of settings and two names. It follows that both names can be used very respectfully. Last year, at the King's and Queen's state visit to Canada, I went out with a delegation from higher education. People asked questions about it at first, but my conclusion at that time was not that we should change the law but that we should indicate more clearly what a college and university are doing, even when we are travelling. It is not at all so complicated to make a mission statement about this, with which universities, colleges and I, when I'm there, can explain who's doing what. It would also create confusion if we allowed the term 'university' to be used abroad. That would be inconsistent with what we're doing here. Therefore, I am not afraid that we will harm the student in his position. In my opinion, the student is best served in a clear formulation on master's and bachelor's councils and on the distinction between universities and colleges. I also note that ISO and LSVb believe that the distinction between universities and colleges should remain visible. The LSVb says that the best available translation for "schools" abroad is "university of applied sciences." I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u3	I thank the Minister. It's clear. I agree with her on all these points. But I used to work at a college in the Netherlands that worked with a polytechnic in England, which has become a university. You can say they did it wrong in England, but that's the world our colleges are dealing with. How does the Minister look at the problem that, particularly in the Anglo-Saxon countries, that terminology has almost disappeared and everything is called "university"? Are we doing it wrong, or are they doing it wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u4	I have had exactly the same experience in a previous position as Mr Van Meenen. So I can talk about that. It has to be clear what your attitude does. It's not just about that general title. The polytechnics in Britain may call themselves universities, but they very often have subtitles or otherwise indicate what their central mission is. If we in the Netherlands are proud of our higher education and of what we are doing here and if that proves to be very appropriate to the European model that is being applied in other European countries, then perhaps we should do a little more to explain this. However, this does not in any way prevent cooperation with any university in the Anglo-Saxon region, whether it still calls itself polytechnic or not. I am well aware that it is the Association of Colleges that objects, so perhaps it is good to point out that not so long ago, in 2008, my predecessor made agreements with the then HBO Council and that these agreements are now in fact legally anchored. There is therefore no question of years of struggle. Perhaps it is also good to say that for colleges there are also variants in the form of the addition "applied sciences." If they work in a particular field, they may refer to themselves in that field. For example, a higher hotel school may call itself "University of hospitality management," so that there too the connection with abroad can be found. I come to the question of what we should do with institutions that now call themselves universities, but are not universities. Mr Bishop, Mr Bruins and Mr Rog have asked a number of pressing questions about this. Since we are going to protect the term "university," this means that anyone who uses that term now, but does not comply with the WHW standards, may no longer use that term, except for a single exception. I am glad that there are institutions, such as the Johan Cruyff University, that have said in anticipation of the bill that they will call themselves different. Johan Cruyff University is now called Johan Cruijff Academy. Also Dutch University College, in anticipation of this bill, has changed its name and is now called DUC Educational Center. So it doesn't have to be very complicated for the existing institutions to look for another name. What are the exceptions? There are exceptions for institutions which are clearly not a higher education institution. At these institutions you cannot obtain a degree and the costs are nil or very low. I am thinking here of the Kindergarten University, which I mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. An exception also applies to the University of the Netherlands, because that is an instrument for giving lectures free of charge from the best professors. No one has to pay for it and no one has to sign up for it. There can be no deception in the legislation, because students cannot register there. The key question is what we do with institutions that have been in existence for a long time and whose names are known. Mr Bruins' amendment deals with this. I mention the Evangelical College and Mr Rog rightly also mentioned the Free University of Driebergen. Do we make an exception? I find it undesirable to make an exception for this because it concerns institutions that are preparing for a degree. It is very easy and tempting to think that you can get a degree at these colleges. In my bill, I only made an exception for popular universities and colleges. I have done so because they have a much longer history of having been in existence for over 100 years, and that is something different than 40 years of being low-threshold, having no pre-training questions and low costs. That's different at the Evangelical University of Applied Sciences and the University of Driebergen. In my opinion, the fact that a name is established is not sufficient reason for an exception. As far as I am concerned, the exception for popular universities and colleges is the only one, because there is no possibility of deception. There can be one at the Evangelical University of Applied Sciences, because this training is explicitly presented as a preparatory training at the HBO level. What would be wrong with the Evangelical College following the example of Johan Cruyff University and also calling itself academy, institution or college? I don't care about any of it. In view of this, I would also advise against the amendment on item No. 9. Mr Bishop has an amendment to item No. 11 submitted to change the terms and conditions. He wants to make an exception by adjusting the conditions: there should be no payment or certificates. He wants to delete that condition. I would also advise against that amendment. In fact, I strongly dissuade it, because it opens the door to deception. After all, it is still possible that some organization suddenly calls itself a university and students knock money out of the bag. The amendment would make this all possible again if the organisation did not propose degrees in advance. That is precisely what the legislative proposal prevents, and that is why I think it would be a step backwards. It is really undesirable and that is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u5	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Bishop, because he is the first signatory to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u6	There is something not clear to me in the Minister's speech. In my opinion, there is a bit too arbitrary shopping in the demands that the name 'university' should or should not be maintained. For all the examples mentioned by the Minister, is it true that transposition is possible? Why should Kindergarten University not be converted into Kindergarten Academy? It seems a little random. If existing institutions, whether they are the Vrije Universiteit, the Evangelical University or some university, clearly communicate that there are no valid certificates or deeds, can you certainly maintain the existing practice there? The positive intention of the law is to prevent abuse, but the law now, as it were, cleans everything up in a single stream. That can't be the purpose of the law, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u7	That is precisely the intention of the law, because in the past we have seen institutions that have abused the term 'university'. I can't say that it doesn't apply to colleges that I like, but it does apply to the others, and that's why I'm going to punish them. It's legislation, and that's why I have to come up with a clear standard. I have tried to find that clear standard by being consistent with institutions outside the WHW system. The Vrije Universiteit is therefore not a good example because that is a recognized institution according to the WHW. The Evangelical College is a good example, because that is not an institution according to the WHW. On the basis of criteria and arguments, I decide whether or not to use that name. If there can be no deception, for example because the institutions are accessible to everyone, they can use that name. Misdirection always has to do with what is envisaged, namely a degree. If that is not the case at all and promises have not been made in one way or another, I note that an exception can be made. This is without prejudice to the fact that I would advise everyone to use as many other terms as possible. That's desirable, but I'm not going to ban it by law. I cannot say to one institution that we do not want to have it and to the other institution that we can. It can't be. In this context, questions have also been asked about the Islamic University in Rotterdam. I've been asked what I've done about it. That's a college that only gives college degrees. Here too, it needs to be tackled more strictly. With this legislation, I want to protect the terms well and be consistent with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u8	That objective is, of course, only to be welcomed, that abuse is excluded where possible. However, let us deal wisely with cases where abuse is not dealt with because it is clearly and clearly communicated. The Minister himself states that it is not entirely possible to cut it with scissors and that it is not 100% closed because it is always offensive to what is and is not allowed. That will always be possible. I would say: focus legislation on tackling abuse of those terms and leave a certain amount of room for manoeuvre, especially if the practice has been there for decades. Let's be wise and careful about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u9	That's what I've been trying to do. That is why I have made an exception for the People's University, because it meets the criteria. I could respect it if you did not find that clear enough and tabled an amendment to change the name of the People's University as well. If such an amendment were to be tabled, I would have to take a closer look at it, but then I could consider leaving the opinion on such an amendment to the Chamber. Then we are consistent in a good way. Then we create clarity and ensure that the terms "university" and "high school" are protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u10	Everyone here wants to protect potential students. We'll share that. The issue at the Islamic Fake University of Rotterdam is that it says in the name that it is a university, and also offers whole bachelor's programmes, while in the case of the Evangelical College and the Vrije Hogeschool we talk about an intermediate year after havo or vwo. I did that Vrije Hogeschool myself and I knew exactly that I was just starting an intermediate year and then going to HBO. That is perfectly clear. There hasn't been anyone since 1971 who's done the Vrije Hogeschool, thinking he's going to do a bachelor's programme or master's programme. Nobody. I do not understand why the Minister accepts a whole bunch of exceptions and then leaves these kind of established institutions in the cold and is obliged to carry out an extremely complex and expensive name change, which does not serve any public interest. I just don't understand it and I think the Minister has some explaining to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u11	That's what I'm doing. I cannot lay down in legislation that one institution with which we may have problems should, for whatever reason, for example because it does not like you or me, be excluded and that an exception is made for the other institution we value. I have to do it on the basis of criteria. Precisely because the Vrije Hogeschool in Driebergen I have been there a number of times also offers a preparation for study, which also applies to the Evangelical University of Applied Sciences, there can be much easier an expectation. I'm turning it around: I don't understand why it's no problem for Johan Cruyff University to do this. There's plenty of time for that, and if you do that right, it doesn't have to incur any additional costs at all, and it does for the other institutions. We must have clear standards for this. Once again, there may still be a dispute about the Volksuniversiteit, but I do not think that these other examples have any relationship with the education diploma that could be envisaged. Now I can only imagine that someone chooses a different side than I have chosen and someone says: we do not make an exception for the People's University either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u12	We now have the interesting situation that the Minister admits here that her law is actually a bit of a mess when it comes to the exceptions and that at the same time she points out that established institutions, such as the Evangelical College and the Free University, which have been in existence for more than 40 years with success and clarity, have never been in any doubt about this but simply have to undergo an expensive and complex name change. I honestly believe that the Minister, when it comes to the care of legislation, simply misses the point and that she or herself should come up with a clear legislative proposal, in which there is indeed no doubt, or should move with the Chamber, as Mr Bishop's amendment seeks, and should allow exceptions for institutions where there is no doubt or deception. In fact, this treatment gives rise to the suggestion that these institutions are cheating, whereas that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u13	I really distance myself from Mr Rog's words. I made the bill the way it is now, because it's clear. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there should be no discussion about it. It is quite clear what the criteria are and who is and is not eligible for them. I regret that it is always about one or two institutions, because that is not how we make a law. A law contains general principles and standards. It is therefore not good to make an exception for an institution that itself says that there is no payment and that no certificates are deleted. That is what is said in the information and one does the sister and the other does it this way. I want one clear standard, and I can't really imagine what would be against having that standard passed on to these two organisations, as other organisations indicate that they really have no problem with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u14	I can live very well with a clear standard in a law, but I cannot escape the impression that the starting point here was to leave the Volksuniversiteit and the Volkshoogschool unchanged in naming and that arguments were then sought to meet it. At the same time, I note that, when I look at these arguments, the Evangelical University of Amersfoort also meets those requirements. You have to have at least mbo-4 to get in, but if you don't have it, you can have another conversation to see if you can handle the education. In a sense, therefore, this school is also generally accessible. There is no deception there, as is the case with popular universities and high schools. I cannot escape the impression that these arguments are arbitrary. I would rather expect clear standards to be laid down in the law and then look at which colleges and universities do and do not comply with those standards, rather than turning things around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u15	But now Mr. Bruins is turning around. He's already turning it in himself, and the Evangelical College is asking for a pre-school. He says, "You have to have a degree, or else you can't participate." That is exactly what other colleges of applied sciences are demanding. You have to be clear about that. I make an exception for the Volksuniversiteit because it is accessible and does not impose any pre-training requirements. That's really different. Everyone also knows that there is no promise of a degree and that costs are extremely low. Those standards are therefore very clear. I understand very well that, given your political position, you find it annoying that the Evangelical College should change its name, but again, that also applies to an organization such as Johan Cruyff University. However, Johan Cruyff University is so wise to prepare itself in time for a law to come. I wouldn't know what's wrong with this. The Evangelical College will then simply be called Evangelical Academy or the Evangelical College and can still make exactly the same demands and give the same information that it now gives and thus guarantee a future existence for itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u16	Then I would suggest that we lay down in the law the clear standards that have just been mentioned, so that we can see which colleges and universities comply with them, and that we do not mention in particular certain existing institutions in the law. As far as I am concerned, that would be much more neat legislation than what we are doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u17	I have tried to clarify the law and not just to formulate these standards without mentioning them. That is why it is good that we are talking about this now, because this is also part of the legal history. I have tried to give that clarity and thereby stimulate communication in society. But I have already said that I would come back to this in writing. I would be happy to give you another piece of legislation on how we did this, precisely why we formulated it in the way we formulated it. We have looked at this very carefully, precisely because of its clarity and clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u18	I say to Mr Bishop: you have already been on this point. It's a really short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u19	The confusion is getting bigger and bigger. I hear the Minister making a glowing argument as to why the term 'people's university' or 'people's college' could be maintained, which is a long way from university education. Such a course is about yoga dancing for seniors or an introduction to local history at basic level. Then I think to myself: it can't be true that such a term is maintained? If the Minister wishes to separate things sharply, she must take the initiative herself. I'm not filing a motion for that. I promise her. If it is tabled, I will support it, but I believe that the Minister should make her speech and actually make that divorce. It should not shop at random "that institution and that institution" with all kinds of criteria sought. The surprise and confusion are only getting bigger. This is not a good proposal. I ask the Minister to take it back, take another look at it and then re-examine it. This is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr Bishop confirms exactly my reasoning. Precisely because the Volksuniversiteit is so far from a university, there can be no deception. Anyone who looks at the programme of the Volksuniversiteit sees that you cannot get a degree there and that you only have to pay a very small contribution there. In this sense too, there can be no deception. So I said: let us just allow it for the institutions where deception is so far beyond the possibilities. There can be no discussion about this. If Mr Bishop wants to be very strict on the rules, I hear from some people that they attach great importance to that clarity.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That would not be my preference, but if he did, I would find it consistent that he would say in his reasoning: even if it is very far from it and that deception is not actually possible, I do not think it would be desirable for that term to be used there either. That is not a question of legal legislation and precision. That is a matter of political choice. That's what we're here for. I might be able to respect it if Mr Bishop tabled an amendment on that, but I am not going to do it, because my legislation is as it is, with clear standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u21	So if a commercial person comes up with the idea of setting up a university and calling it "University for Vet Diplomas" or "Hogeschool voor de Bietkunst," then that's possible. This is based on the line the Minister chooses with regard to the Volksuniversiteit. This can't be happening! As long as it's a long way from what we're talking about, it's okay. I'm sorry, I don't think I understand anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u22	The central term is the possibility of deception. We also started with transparency and security for students. That is what this legislation was built on. In my view, this has been consistently applied in order not to make it more complicated than necessary. I repeat, but this bill is intended to clarify to everyone the question of who does and who does not have the right to access a university. If someone were to argue in favour of a veteran's university, then it is quite clear that it is not possible to obtain a degree, that deception is not the issue and that the relationship with the legislation, the WHW and the issue of degrees, therefore does not matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u23	I have two questions. One. The university of life, can it keep its name? This is a joke. Two. It may come from an unexpected angle, but I join the gentlemen of the Christian house. I just looked at the site of the Evangelical College. If the criterion is deception, I cannot understand why the Minister declares that applicable to this school, because it is obvious that there is no way on the site that the illusion is awakened that you can obtain a degree there. I just don't understand that. In her comprehensive answer, the Minister failed to explain to me why someone might feel deceived if he applied to the Evangelical College.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr Bishop himself has just indicated that you must have at least a MBO-4 diploma at the Evangelical University of Applied Sciences. This alone gives the impression that it is a university subject to the same access standards as any other university. Therefore, it may be misleading and it seems as if the courses would also have HBO level. The Evangelical University also presents itself as a preparatory training of HBO level, an intermediate year for which these pre-training requirements are required. I believe that the relationship with being able to obtain a degree is sufficiently established.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u25	No, that's the last thing that doesn't add up. The first thing the Minister says is absolutely correct. It's said to be a preparation for HBO. That's literally what it says. If you offer a preparation for the HBO, it is not illogical that you also have the formal admission requirements to the HBO in your pocket. Looks like some kind of waterbed discussion. If one doesn't work, we'll come up with another criterion. The criterion the Minister wishes to use is: does the institute give the impression that an HBO diploma can be obtained here? That's not true. The Minister quotes literally from the admission requirements: it is a preparation for a college. Can't anyone in the Netherlands read that you're going to get an HBO degree there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u26	It is precisely because of this relationship with HBO training and pre-training requirements that I have come to a different conclusion. I want to be absolutely clear about where this relationship can lie and where not, in order to prevent any deception and achieve complete transparency. I understand that Mr Van Meenen feels differently. I think that's a political weighting. I have tried to make this clear in the legislation. It's just about the Evangelical College now. It will almost be a discussion for or against the Evangelical College. I have no objection to that at all, but on the basis of the debates we have had earlier, I take the point seriously that there are institutions in the Netherlands that give misleading information that leads to the error of the way in which prospective students are led. Legislation must be clear in its wake and apply clear standards. Sometimes that requires respected institutions to take a step towards meeting these clear standards. But again, let me explain it in a letter. I insist that this is, in my view, a consistent approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I see people again at the interrupting microphones and I also see members talking to each other. Can we continue with this debate? This point is obviously important to you, and that is also your right, but if we continue to do so, we will not really move forward. You all have a second term as well. I would suggest that we move forward, otherwise we will stick to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u28	I think I was interrupting. Would you allow me one last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u29	One sentence. After that, we really need to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u30	I fully understand that the Minister must be crystal clear in legislation in order to avoid deception. That clarity ends where exceptions are formulated in the same law. Then there must also be crystal clear criteria on the basis of which these exceptions are made. That crystal clear criterion is deception. To prevent this, this law is intended. The Minister is proposing to do so, but there must be the possibility for institutions to submit to the courts whether this criterion has been correctly applied? I think that's the least you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u31	If the law comes into force, anyone can object. If you do not think this is crystal clear enough, there is only one way: do not allow all other forms outside WHW band. That would mean that everyone would have to change their names, including the Volksuniversiteit and the Kindergarten University. If you really want that clarity, that's the best possible clarity. Then you won't have any exceptions. Legally, that's very pure. I thought this would have a lot of social impact, so I made a different weighting. However, if you say that I am listening to a little bit of "high school" that it is not tight enough, then it is conceivable that we will come to a different weighting and that the term "university" or "high school" can only be used by institutions that are according to WHW university or college. All other institutions, up to and including Kindergarten, must change their names. Maybe that's a second-term discussion. Having heard this, I shall consider it again. Mr President, I would also like to continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u32	You all have your second term, so I suggest we move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mr Rog and Mr Bishop asked about the Islamic University of Rotterdam. I will come back to this in detail in the context of social responsibility. I pointed out to this institution that it should be called college, especially under this legislation. I have written a letter about the consequences of this law to the institutions which are now called 'university' and which will no longer be allowed to do so after the law has been introduced. The Islamic University of Rotterdam is one of these institutions. Once an institution wrongly uses or continues to use the name "university" after the introduction of the law, it can ultimately expect an administrative fine. Two institutions which have received a letter have already changed their names in advance. Signals about misleading advertising with or without NVAO accreditation come to the inspection, but that can actually do very little at the moment. That is exactly what this bill provides for. Mr Bruins and Mr Van Meenen asked about the subsidiary offices of foreign institutions. These institutions can provide education in our country and in that context they are called 'university' or 'high school'. This can be done if one belongs to the European Economic Area, i.e. the Bologna countries, in which comparable diplomas are sought. This means that institutions, such as the University of Stockholm or the Hochschule from Trier, may have a subsidiary office in the Netherlands. However, they must clarify that they are part of a headquarters. That's what we call the requirement of expression. They must therefore make it clear that they are a secondary institution of another large institution within the European Economic Area or the Bologna countries. This does not apply to institutions which are ancillary to an institution outside the European Economic Area. If the University of Baku, in Azerbaijan, wants to start a subsidiary, the quality of education is difficult to assess. There is no clear and transparent quality assurance in these countries. Here too, I have made an exception, namely for branches of institutions from countries outside the European Economic Area which are demonstrably world leaders. It's about Harvard MRT or Yale, for example. I remember questions from Mr Duisenberg about a student who wanted to go there and had to go through a bureaucratic mill. If there is no doubt that institutions are of very high quality, you try to shorten them. If such institutions want to establish themselves here, they must be clear to whom they do and to whom they do not. For that, I have to make a ministerial arrangement. The chances of this situation happening are very small. That's why I haven't made that ministerial arrangement yet. If it were frequent, we'd already be working on it. Then I have to decide who belongs to the top of the world. I imagine we're doing that on the basis of the top 200 of the Shanghai ranking and the Times Higher Education World Reputation Rankings, but I'm also open to another important list. EP-Nuffic will certainly not get a role in this, as I say to Mr Van Meenen, because he does not have the information. EP-Nuffic has the task of assessing individual diplomas. This also applies to the need to make it clear where the headquarters is, but there are still additional requirements. They are not currently being discussed, but they can be further developed in the ministerial arrangement. The spokesmen of the Christian Union, the SGP and the CDA asked whether it would not be more logical to use criminal law instead of an administrative fine. The problem with housing under criminal law is that you go a long way. Criminal law is, by definition, criminalising. I think that goes a long way in this case. In addition, you must all have special investigators. I also find that undesirable. A number of aspects were therefore considered when choosing an administrative fine. In addition, we have arranged for the performance of Dutch titles by persons in a similar way. The protection of the feeding of degrees is associated with this. In protecting the name of an institution and granting degrees, an administrative fine was chosen for reasons such as the principles of the 2008 Cabinet Note and the Council of State's considerations on the choice of a sanctioning system. These aspects have both been leading the way. Also leading has been that this is the most logical way of maintaining it, because it can be applied directly and does not require a tracking device.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u34	Since 2005, we have transformed the European Unfair Commercial Practices Directive into a law that criminalises unfair commercial practices in relation to consumers. This can lead to a fine of up to €450,000. That is lower than the maximum fine proposed by the Minister in her bill. So that's not so big at all. We're talking about commercial companies that deliberately deceive. There's no reason why you wouldn't take it hard and hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u35	That is why we have also opted for the maximum administrative penalty. In doing so, we join the highest category of criminal penalties. I therefore believe that this is in line with Mr Bruins' wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u36	No, I'm saying this bill is superfluous. We can already deal with the practice through the Unfair Commercial Practices Act. This bill is not necessary to do so. We certainly do not need a Minister of Education to tackle unfair commercial practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u37	I believe that we have had many debates with each other in which I have been asked once again to address undesirable practices in education. We have found that this cannot be done, that the use of the name is now far too easy, that we do not have the tools to do something about it, and that it makes sense for education to make it compatible with the work of the inspection. Signals about dubious institutions enter the inspection and then the inspection must act. So we are giving the inspection measures in order to be able to act directly. If I didn't make that possible, I'd know that in the next incident, you'd all be standing here asking me why I didn't intervene directly. So I can do that with this instrument now. That's what I think is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u38	Nothing stands in the way of immediate intervention if the criminal route is chosen? At the moment when it is found that there has been deception, it is possible to intervene immediately via the route of criminal law. I can still imagine that such a company would receive a write-down that would have to be changed by tomorrow and that would have to be reported otherwise. Why would that necessarily have to be done on the route of an administrative fine? You then rig up a separate instrument, when we already have facilities for this. So it seems unnecessarily cumbersome to me. It seems as if it must remain in the field of education. No, if an institution is misleading, if it has had a warning and if it does not meet the requirement, then it is on the criminal path. And I think that goes with criminal law. On this point, too, I would like to make it clear that the legislative proposal is being carefully reviewed and that the whole issue is being raked again when it comes to what exactly is a criminal offence, what conditions it must meet, what the consequences are and what the connection to criminal law is. As far as we are concerned, it really deserves further consideration to come up with a good legislative proposal. In all honesty, I cannot imagine that the First Chamber would agree to this. It's not sufficiently matured. This was a piece of my second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u39	That's why. Let's agree this was a one-time thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u40	I've been watching this, too. Mr Bishop and I find the current situation undesirable. He's asked me several questions about that. Then what is the most logical way to act? That's trying to organize it as close as possible, at your own inspection. This is also what the colleague of Social Affairs does in the Foreign Labour Act. That's what I'm doing here. To be honest, I do not think that much is wrong. I think it is very much in line with the question of who is the most logical enforcer, where the whole of the information has been brought together best and how to act as quickly as possible without criminalising parties in advance. Of course, that's what you do with criminal justice. The message you send with it has far-reaching consequences. It is therefore in line with government policy and also with the enforcement practices chosen by colleagues, who often follow their inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u41	Have we not seen correctly in the recent past that the legislator is being flagged back by our highest court, because he keeps increasing the administrative fines and not choosing the criminal route? Can the Minister answer that? I very much agree with Mr Bishop. We are working on this legislation, which must be careful and proportionate. If we have reason to suspect that we are putting criminal law aside a little too strictly and taking disproportionate measures in administrative law, as the Council of State points out, this is perhaps where review is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u42	But Mr Rog has also indicated a number of times in recent years that there are really undesirable situations. Then you have to do this carefully. Then you join the system that you have for that, namely a cabinet note from 2008. This is indeed a theme where you do not have to change policy every year. This is not a zigzag policy. Previous Cabinets have established that we do it this way. The Council of State added that the choice of sanction systems should be a guiding principle. We have recorded this, and we are all trying to do it as best we can. Then it makes sense to choose this theme. Maybe in an individual, occasional case someone has been called back once, but the line I choose here now fits the line that has been turned off a long time ago and with which I haven't seen any problems either. Of course it has to be proportional. That is why we have opted for the highest category. Of course, it is always necessary to consider which fine is ultimately imposed. The amount of that fine must be proportionate. In the case of a relatively minor offence, of course, it is not appropriate to impose a very high fine. Maybe it's a good thing I'm saying this right now. I hope that this will also meet the wish that it should be proportionate, even if we do not opt for criminal law, because of the policies that we follow interdepartmentally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u43	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u44	In my view, I have dealt with the most important issues in the field of names. Unless someone is standing up now, I will continue with the other important issue: social responsibility. We have also had many debates on social responsibility. In general, we often talk about standards and values that we share with each other in the Netherlands. We often talk about the educational task of educating young adults and about citizenship, socialisation, personal education and its importance for the whole of education. This applies from primary education to university education. In the other sectors of education, such as Po, Vo and MBO, this has been formulated by means of a legal citizenship mandate. The WHW does not know the term "citizenship" but has for many years included the legal obligation to promote the sense of social responsibility of students. Previously, this applied to both funded and unpaid institutions. As a result of a legislative amendment of a number of years ago, this no longer applies to unpaid institutions. I would like to make it quite clear that this has been an unintended result. First of all, I am trying to restore this omission by means of this legislation, because it is also up to uncosted institutions in higher education to discharge their social responsibility. We have recently seen that not all educational institutions comply with this. We have talked a lot about the Islamic University of Rotterdam. I share the view that we must be able to act when certain statements are made by a rector. I also note that I now have insufficient opportunities to act. The current law does not offer me that perspective of action. So I've been looking for ways to do that. The question of how to do that and how to design it in a legal way is not so simple. I think we're pretty quick to agree on the question of what's undesirable. The rector of the Islamic University has made certain statements in the past. I would like to quote a few of them according to the translation by Mr Zürcher. The dean betrays a voice on gays and Armenians and says: Kurds are dogs and I pray for those who hunt them. I find these statements totally unacceptable, let me be clear about that. That's a moral judgment. I have therefore made it clear how sorry I am about these statements. But in dealing with this, there are many important core values that we share in our society as well. These are fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression, the protection of citizens from arbitrariness and discrimination, and academic freedom. I don't want to undermine those rights. I do not want us to deny the principles of the rule of law. Then we would fight evil with evil and then it would go from evil to worse, just to say it in daily language. In our legal system, citizens who cross the line can be dealt with through criminal law. However, if institutions violate the principles of law, I cannot or will not be able to intervene. That is my direct answer to the question why we are not applying the criminal law procedure here. It is also my answer to Mr Rog's question, who asked why I did not report it myself. I could have done that, but I don't know if the judge would have taken that very seriously in my case. But if I had already been right, that would only have been an individual assessment. That would still not have made any difference to the existence of an institution, as criminal law does not see fit to do so. So now I have no means to intervene in this undesirable situation. We all think that this situation is undesirable, because the Chamber has not only asked me to act against the Islamic University, but has also repeatedly urged me to do so quickly. I've been working hard on this bill, and I've been trying to look at all the parts of the bill carefully and thus also this part of the bill. I have to say that it's not that simple. I want to make it possible to intervene if an institution does not comply with the duty to promote the sense of social responsibility. That's in teaching terms "the what." The next question is, how do you do that? Let me say first of all that I am not going to dictate in general how institutions should shape the sense of social responsibility. That is the freedom of education. An evangelical college will do this in a different way than a public college, and perhaps even an Islamic college. You can, and you can respect that within certain limits. Dutch education has a lot of space thanks to the freedom of education. I think that we are very well serving that freedom, Article 23 has just been mentioned, within the limits of the sense of social responsibility. The question is how to set the best legal standards for expressing social responsibility. I have finally chosen that promoting social responsibility means at least that institutions refrain from discriminatory expressions, both in statements and in behaviour. That's how I put it in the bill. The reasoning is that everyone within the Netherlands, and therefore also in higher education, must feel respected. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, sexual preference, gender or in any way is not allowed. This is indeed enshrined in Article 1 of the Constitution. So this is a way of being able to fit in well with the Constitution. The fundamental debates on where the limits of freedom of expression lie are much wider. I therefore do not wish to confine these debates to the framework of higher education. I certainly do not want to interfere with other fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression. I also do not want any further restrictions on academic freedom. Individual teachers, researchers and others naturally have the freedom to follow their own scientific insights when teaching, doing research and participating in education. They are also not dependent on certain political, philosophical or scientific theoretic views. Mr Rog, Mr Bishop and Mr Bruins already referred to the opinion of the Council of State that the government should be cautious in assessing views. I very much agree with that. I'm trying to make that clear now. The what is recorded by me, but for the how do I offer a lot of freedom. At the same time, we say that fundamental fundamental rights of our rule of law must not be called into question. I therefore agree with Mr Bruins that it should not be too easy for the Minister to take action. It would indeed be very undesirable if I could say that a school or university should stop because I do not like its philosophical vision, or that I would not stand in the way of another institution because I do like it. I have therefore been looking for a form in which the power to grant degrees, i.e. to be a higher education institution or not, will only be used if the institution clearly ignores its duty. That limit of what's admissible, I've been looking for discrimination. Indeed, in the original motion it was different. It referred to the "legal state'. I think that giving substance to the more general denominator of the 'legal state' would give me even more freedom to decide whether or not an institution would be desirable. In other respects, this could still have complex consequences. For example, joining the concept of the rule of law can also affect an institution that does not comply with environmental standards, if you look at it legally. So, morally, I agree with everyone who says that this is about the rule of law in the moral sense, but when it comes to the legal sense, it is a different story. I also note that my colleagues, especially the Minister of V and J, who has a great responsibility here, see that the moral standard is different from the legal standard you set. I put it through discrimination, but where an institution does not, in such a way, fulfil its duty to promote social responsibility, for example, when in extreme cases it calls for armed jihad or any terrorist action, it affects the fundamentals of the rule of law in such a way that it also falls under the sense of social responsibility. Maybe it's a good thing I'm saying this now, because that's part of the history of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u45	Is this block almost complete?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u46	I would like to comment on the procedure, because that might also clarify the freedom of movement I have when we see that there is a problem. So this bill makes it possible for me to intervene and impose a sanction. This can already be done in general terms in the institutions funded, where there is the promotion of a sense of social responsibility. I am now adding this to the cost-free education system. For both, I would add the standard on the clarification of discrimination. What happens then? Of great importance is the context in which something occurs. I shall go into Mr Duisenberg's examples in a moment, because not every statement in a different context has the same value in this respect. First of all, there are three questions to be answered. Step 1 asks whether the expressions are contrary to existing regulations such as the Code of Criminal Law and the equal treatment laws. When taking action, I will look at what the criminal court has said and what, for example, the Human Rights College has regarded as discriminatory in previous cases. Within that framework, the current legislation and case law, we review the expressions. If the answer to that question is yes, if, according to our legal system, there are objectionable statements, we go to step 2. It is perhaps a good thing to say that the legislative proposal does not, therefore, create new consequences for breach of the rules, but extends existing standards. I therefore do not infringe the existing framework of standards when taking measures. I'm looking at whether it's being exceeded, and if that's the case, we're going to step 2: is the expression of academic freedom or not? The context in which the expression was expressed determines whether it is covered by academic freedom or by other fundamental fundamental rights. It will be clear from the examples that a judge's ruling on an examination board outweighs an individual lecturer's ruling if, for example, he says something that is part of a curriculum or if he wants his students to practice. A professor who does research also has a very great academic freedom. So here we have to answer the question of whether there is academic freedom or other fundamental fundamental rights. If that's the case, then my interference stops. If that is not the case, so if there is no academic freedom, we go to step 3. Then the crucial question is whether this expression can be attributed to the institution. At step 3 we can only arrive when steps 1 and 2 have been found to be a problem. I will not then act if an institution explicitly distances itself from the discriminatory expressions, and certainly not if disciplinary measures are taken in addition to those taken by the person concerned. For example, I asked the Islamic University in Rotterdam earlier to take back the Rector's statements. If we do not do that, I have to go other ways and see how I can intervene. In order to speak of the responsibility of the institution, the expression must have been made by someone who represents the institution formally or informally. Indeed, the legislative proposal provides for a penalty against institutions and not against individuals, as this is already governed by regular law. So at the moment I cannot intervene in institutions as formal representatives, such as directors, are discriminatory. If I note in step 3 that it is an institution to charge that discriminatory statements are made, or statements that are contrary to social responsibility, I will ask the institution in step 4 to take back those statements. Then I start the procedure to impose a measure. That means I'll give you a warning first, in writing. The institution shall have at least three months to respond. It is only when the institution does not distance itself from the discriminatory expression that a measure can be taken, i.e. if it does not respond adequately within the prescribed period, for example by dismissing the person in question or by abandoning the rulings. And then there's step 5. If that didn't happen, I'll make a decision. All these steps are conditional. So it is not that easy to reach a decision. In order to ensure that my decision is truly well founded and cannot be abused, I am prepared to share with the Chamber the warning and the outcome of a possible procedure, whether confidential or not. It may be undesirable to make a warning public, although in most cases it will already be a public debate. I can imagine that this is not necessarily always the case. The Chamber can always call me back. If she says she does not agree with my decision, she can correct me when I give the warning or adopt the decision. Finally, the institution can always appeal against a decision. In that case, the judge shall determine whether that decision may be taken. Even if the Chamber supports me, the institution can always go to court. In my opinion, we have also ensured care in this regard. Mr Duisenberg's cases also clarify the limits of social responsibility and academic freedom. The first case concerns the rector magnificus of a public university, which is one of the speakers at a conference on the functioning of examination committees in higher education and which makes discriminatory statements there. I therefore first assess whether this expression is discriminatory according to the remarks of the criminal court. That depends on the context. This is about an examination board. It is therefore an unacceptable expression on behalf of the institution. Then I look at academic freedom. In the given case, the context is not education or scientific research, but governance. The rector shall act in person on behalf of the institution. This does not therefore fall within the scope of academic freedom. Then I'm going to step three. Then I'll see if it's a statement that the institution can be charged. In this case, I expect that, given the function of the person in question, Rector Magnificus, he will be seen as a person representing the university in society, and thus his statements can be seen as statements from the university. In this case there is a good chance that we will also take the fourth step and find that something is really going on here. Another case is next. A person who works at a school on a Christian or reformer's basis makes a remark when visiting a quality assessment panel that he says in his lessons that he is against gay marriage. I shall first assess whether this expression is discriminatory according to the remarks of the criminal court. For example, if a teacher acts in his role as a teacher of religious education, his statement fits in with what the Bible says, namely that marriage is a commitment between husband and wife. That falls within the scope of freedom of religion. So I am not imposing a measure and I am not going to the next step. Then I come to the third case, namely the recent statements by Rector Ahmet Akgündüz of the Islamic University of Rotterdam, about the coup attempt, translated as "our heroic state, clean these dogs." I think that this statement, I shall come back to it later, is suitable for all those steps that need to be taken. However, I say this because this is not the first tweet and not the first statement of the rector we are discussing. I have spoken to the Chamber many times about the Islamic University of Rotterdam, so I am taking that with me right now. I do not think that the statements made by this rector fit in with the function of a rector of a higher education institution in the Netherlands, and I am still mildly expressing myself. I've also asked the principal and the board a few times to refrain from doing so and to stop doing so. They also promised me several times to change their lives. Unfortunately, last year I found that they did not keep these promises, and that is why earlier this year, in a conversation with the supervisory board and the foundation board of the Islamic University Rotterdam, I also abandoned my confidence in the rector. I have already had an exchange of views with the Chamber on the possibilities I have at present for taking action. Last year the visitation showed that the quality and level of education of the accredited courses is up to date. It is therefore very difficult to intervene through accreditations. However, in response to the Rector's statements with the Islamic University of Rotterdam, the NVAO has agreed to carry out an additional study into the way in which social responsibility is promoted. For this purpose, the NVAO would have set up an independent visitation committee led by a chairman accepted by the Islamic University of Rotterdam, Mr Noorda, who would report in December. Unfortunately, last night, this morning, in the last hours of the NVAO, I understood that the Islamic University of Rotterdam has indicated that it no longer wants to participate in this research. This means that the Islamic University of Rotterdam does not comply with its previous agreements with the NVAO. I understand that the Islamic University of Rotterdam believes that the NVAO would adopt a different approach than would fit within the administrative arrangements. The NVAO tells me that this is not the case, and she has also tried to respond reasonably to the concerns of the Islamic University of Rotterdam, as has been discussed earlier with the Islamic University of Rotterdam. Now that the research by the NVAO is not coming and we will not find out about the progress at the Islamic University Rotterdam, I will ask the NVAO and the inspection to take stock. The inspection, as the Chamber knows, has for some time been under serious supervision of the Islamic University of Rotterdam as part of its "fire-weather function," but lacks a basis for intervention. My instruments, which I say very emphatically, are certainly exhausted after the news of the last few hours. I could get those instruments with the adoption of this bill. Then I have a basis for discussing a lack of social responsibility, while respecting all standards of academic freedom and freedom of education. That's why I'm glad we're discussing this bill today. Again, as long as this bill has not turned into a real law, I really don't know what I can do now. I would add that I cannot intervene retroactively, because legal certainty is an important part of the rule of law. But when the rector of the university gives cause again, as he did with the recent tweet, I will let the remarks of the past be taken into account in my decision. If the law were there and we would go through all the steps again on the basis of the statements we are talking about now, that could mean that the Islamic University, or any other institution, is not properly performing its duty to carry out social responsibility. This means that the institution can no longer be a WHW institution and must therefore close in time. That, I say to Mr Duisenberg, has implications for accreditations and is taken into account in the quality requirements. It does not happen in a training sense, because we have no scope for intervention, but if the institution does not exist, it cannot be accredited. Students attending the institution should be given the opportunity to complete their education. There will no longer be any new students, but students must be able to finish their education. The main rule is that this can be done at the institution where the student sits, but that is not unlimited. They asked about the relationship with the study advance. Students can receive a study advance, a loan or an additional scholarship. They must register with DUO, but they must be registered with a WHW institution. If that is no longer the case, there will be consequences in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u47	I see colleagues are trying to interrupt. Was this the end of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u48	Almost. I would like to comment on the accession to the WHW and I think I have had all the questions of this block. The promotion of a sense of social responsibility will play a role when institutions join higher education. After the NVAO has assessed the quality of the training, the inspection will check whether institutions wishing to join the scheme comply with the legal obligations. She's giving me advice on that basis. In practice, this will apply above all to the accession of uncosted institutions, because we do not have new opportunities for funded education. Mr Bishop and Mr Rog asked about consistency with other sectoral laws. I have already said a lot about this. I have tried to integrate as much as possible into other laws and other sectoral agreements in education, for example on the responsibility of directors and representatives in other laws. Think of the case of Islamic education in Amsterdam and the discussion the Secretary of State has about this. These were the answers to the questions about this section.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u49	I would like to thank the Minister for her presentation. I support her on the main lines. The Islamic University of Rotterdam has really made every effort to defy it, if I understand that until today it does not cooperate in all attempts to get in touch. That's a long way to go. I have two enlightening questions. The minister says, with this law, I could close that university. Is that right? Or should I see that the Minister no longer grants accreditation and no longer has access to the recognised system of higher education? My second question concerns retroactivity. The minister said that in this case she cannot deal with this rector retroactively. Today there was another heavy tweet, but the law is not yet in force. What's with the retroactivity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u50	I have already said that I cannot apply a law with retroactive effect. Everyone has the right to legal certainty. If the law is in force and there is another incident, I can take into account what preceded it. According to the roadmap, I have to give a warning first. In doing so, of course, you will take into account what has happened in the past. But I can't let the law go into reverse. I can close an institution, as Mr Van Dijk rightly said. Then an institution is no longer an institution according to WHW standards. And that has the consequences I have just outlined. So it goes indirectly. I can't go there tomorrow with the key to closing the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u51	Thank you, that's clear. Can the Minister outline globally when the approach to this administration starts? If all goes well, if the law is passed in the Lower House, he will soon be accepted in the Upper House. Then he'll be in the Official Journal. With a rough estimate, it's around January 1st. Is that right? Is the Minister going to look at statements from that moment on, or can she get to work on today's tweet right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u52	Then I must have a reason. I cannot say with retroactive effect: before this law entered into force, you acted like this... If this law is in force and there is a reason, then I can consider what has happened in the past. Again, as long as this law isn't in force, there's nothing I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u53	The Minister may also know the feeling that you really regret something. I truly regret that we have not increased the urgency of this law and that we have not dealt with it just before the summer. I don't want to say that the Minister is very late, but it could have been quicker. And we as a room have let it go. Especially today, I am incredibly sorry about that when I take this last tweet. I don't want to approve of a coup, but language like "clean these dogs" of a rector of a university is just unacceptable. Such a tweet is an educational institution that is approved by our WHW unworthy. If we had pressed more, we could have done something today. If in due course there can be consequences, such an institution will no longer be covered by the WHW, then it will not get accreditation, then it will no longer be able to issue bachelor and master titles. Students are therefore no longer eligible for a study advance. As far as I am concerned, these consequences would be entirely justified. The Minister wants a reason. One reason may lie in what she has done before: asking the board to take back statements. Can the board, after the law has been passed, be invited to take things back? That could be a reason. Perhaps Mr Akgündüz will not tweet for a while and not put all kinds of wrong things on Facebook. Again, maybe the board can be invited and can be told to the board: and now you're going to take this back, now I want to see action from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u54	Maybe first of all on that first point: Mr Duisenberg's regrets. I have given great priority to this bill, but there have also been other very important priorities in recent years. I'm just pointing to the study advance law. I think that was also a priority for Mr Duisenberg. I've given important priority to this bill, but it's about something. It is complicated legislation, as this debate shows. I do not want legislation that ultimately undermines the rule of law. I attach great importance to the fact that we also protect academic freedom in particular. We have had to think carefully, also in good consultation with other departments, about how we can interpret this carefully. We do not want to threaten freedom of expression, freedom of education and academic freedom, but at the same time we want to be clear and strict about what we do and do not accept in society. This bill is in fact in the middle of that discussion. We must put this very carefully, because I am very keen that we do not exclude people in the Netherlands. We must also say that anyone who wants to participate within a wide range has the freedom to say what he or she wants. I'm glad we can deal with the bill now. Let us make sure, above all, that I am also looking at the clock, that we can deal with this bill quickly...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u55	Don't cheer too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u56	...that would help a lot. In reply to Mr Duisenberg's second question, I would point out that there must first be evidence from the moment a law enters into force. If the law applies, I can't invite the board without proof, because then I would sneak in and act with retroactive force. Of course, I can always invite the board and the supervisory board; I can do that now. Maybe I'll do that sometime; I'll have to think about that. Unfortunately, this last time has not had any effect and so I found that I can only do something if there is a law. However, I must have proof from the moment the law comes into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u57	My question to the Minister is to put that earlier fact as evidence. That's what you need. So you can also, in response to statements made in the past, ask now to take action if the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u58	I believe that this is contrary to legal certainty in the legislation. For everyone, there must be a fact first and we can only act afterwards. However, from the moment the law comes into force, I can inform the administration and perhaps others of the fact that the law is in force and can point out to them the consequences of an act that is contrary to the law. That may help to prevent these acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u59	If I understand the new law correctly, the Minister of OCW can intervene if it concerns a discriminatory ruling. If the tweet in question is not discriminatory, but calls for violence, the minister of OCW cannot intervene, the Code of Criminal Law has to be added and the case runs through the prosecution. Is that how it goes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u60	That depends on the statement in question. When it comes to very far-reaching statements, for example a very clear call for terrorism, I can intervene. I have tried to limit the freedom of movement of myself and my successors. I think this is best done this way. Perhaps it is right to point out at once that I am referring to Mr Bishop's amendment to item No. 11 detachment. This amendment proposes to replace "discriminatory behaviours and statements" by "behaviours and statements contrary to public policy." I do not think this will contribute to a clearer wording. For example, I can no longer understand discrimination. I have tried to be as close to criminal law and the Constitution as possible with the wording of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u61	The Minister has described a very consistent line in five steps, but these steps start with a question that the Minister has to ask himself, namely whether a ruling is discriminatory. She has two options for establishing that. The first is that the criminal court has already ruled on it. In many cases, that will not be the case. For example, this is not the case at the Islamic University. The second is that the Minister himself assesses whether she finds it fit within or outside the legal system, let me just put it this way. There's a very big question for me. Should it be the Minister of Education who will determine whether something is discriminatory? Isn't that strange? Don't we have another body, for example the judge, for that in the Netherlands? Now there's this minister. Perhaps her views on what is discriminatory are in line with mine, but next time we have Minister Bishop or Minister Bertema, there may be quite different views on what is or is not discriminatory. So my question is: is the start of this process, namely the Minister's consideration of what is or is not discriminatory, really sensible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u62	Yes. I've just explained in detail that it's always about individual cases in court. As a result, we can make demands on individuals, but I still have nothing in my hands to address an institution. Crucial to the first point is that it is not a subjective thought of me about what I find discriminatory. I have to look at existing legislation, the Code of Criminal Law, equal treatment laws, the criminal justice system and what the Human Rights College has considered discriminatory in previous cases. Perhaps the specific issue that then arises has not been raised there before, but I cannot imagine that there has been nothing in the law, something like this has not been presented to the criminal court before or the Human Rights College has not said anything about it. But when I decide to step two and three, you'll still be here. I will inform you of my intention. I have faith in my successors in advance, but I also have great confidence in your successors in advance. The Chamber can therefore always call the Minister to order. Finally, the institution still has the opportunity to go to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u63	That's kind of the reverse order. Moreover, I do not think that in many of these situations the criminal court has given a ruling. In the past, we've seen quite a few cases of people from reformatorial schools saying things about homosexuals. All these cases have never led to a verdict from the criminal court. Nevertheless, I think the Minister is treating it as discriminatory when a rector of a reformed school says something like "homosexuality is a disease" or "homosexuality is inferior." Shouldn't it be the case that the Minister can only act if a ruling has actually been given by the criminal court? That seems to me to be better than the other way around, namely that the Minister is going to prelude a little on what the criminal court or the judge in the last instance might think. I think it would mean, for example, that the Minister should press charges. Then, at the beginning of the process, it is clear whether or not there is a discriminatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u64	Then you judge and individualize it and I still have no means in my hands to do anything about a situation like what this has all started out for. In my opinion, the entire Chamber found what was happening at the Islamic University of Rotterdam utterly undesirable. With all understanding, but what Mr Van Meenen says is not a solution to the problem that we are identifying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u65	Surely it cannot be that we are going to lay down a whole law here just because of the one case that everyone in this Chamber happened to be very concerned about on one particular day, and that must lead to a lack of clarity for the whole education system about when there is a situation like this? At any time it may occur that someone representing a school makes a ruling which, according to this minister, may be in breach of the law in force in the Netherlands. I think it's a big deal. For the same reason, next time there will be a moral knight who says: if the criminal courtman hasn't told you, I'll tell you. I see the chairman nodding; he's also a lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u66	Yes, this is your second term, I'm setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u67	Oh, that's why you nodded. But I think it's really risky.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u68	Now a question. Now really a question!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u69	Well, I am very concerned that we should not launch a legal ruling that could be made by an individual which would suggest that an institution might be closed down. No, we're just starting to see how far we get. That's just the bottom line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mr Van Meenen is doing a real injustice to what I have just tried to say, namely that at the first step I have outlined, it is always necessary to consider whether it is contrary to existing legislation, such as the Code of Criminal Law and equal treatment laws. Measures must be considered. We need to look at what a criminal courtman has said and what the College of Human Rights has said. If you do not, there will be different correction mechanisms, including for a Minister of Education, whoever will be in the future. I actually think that Mr Van Meenen is moving the political debate more and more to the courts in this way, while at the core it is really a political debate about where you lay the line and what you think is socially responsible and irresponsible. I don't see a better solution. We have been discussing this for a few years now. I have indicated what the other possibilities are for trying to do something about it, such as through the NVAO, but my inspection is currently empty-handed. When you go to court, that means it's always an individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mr Bishop has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u74	... make a point of order? We're in the process of legal treatment here. It's not just any random question from me. This is fundamental. Here the Minister for Education will determine whether or not criminal law is being exceeded. I think that's a big deal! If you're saying we shouldn't talk about that anymore...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u75	No, no, no. You may think so, but you have already had the floor, including in the case of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u76	But I can't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u77	You also have a second term with all the possibilities there are. I give the floor to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u78	I would like to join in on this, because it makes it very explicit what the disadvantage of the administrative process is. If a clear basis is laid for what is an offence and if, when it is found, it is referred to the appropriate authorities, in this case the judiciary, then we do not almost conflict with the separation of powers. On this point, too, I would really like this bill to be properly reviewed and very clear lines drawn so that you do not have to be flogged back at a later stage on the basis of actually careless legislation. Then we're farther away from home. I would therefore urge the Minister to look again at the amendment which she has now rejected. In fact, the violation of public policy includes, among other things, the prevention of discriminatory comments, but it is wider. That gives the inspection and the minister a much better handle to invest the case where it should be invested, being the judiciary. Then you follow the legal route. I believe that this is precisely what is peculiar to the trias politician, who is the basis of our rule of law. I would like to ask the Minister once again to reconsider this point. We have concerns about derailments that can take place. Let us ensure that this leads to careful legislation. I see a little too little of that at the moment, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u79	I was just saying to Mr Duisenberg that, in view of the discussions we had earlier, I would have preferred to have a law here earlier. But precisely because it is about something and you have to carefully weigh it up, it has taken more time to make the bill. It is my firm belief that there is now a responsible bill, in which the trias politicians stand. We make the law, we set the standard and then it's up to the judge to check. So we are now setting this standard. If an institution finds that it is wronged, it can refer it to the court. This leads to case law, which must be taken into account in subsequent steps. I find this difficult, by the way. This debate has been going on for about two and a half years. Of course, I think that the drafting of legislation should be done carefully, but I also think it is very serious that there are situations in the Netherlands that we all describe as very undesirable, that we have explored a lot of different means for that and that all of them did not work. So there is not so much left but this way, which is really dressed up with a lot of ifs and buts, because before a minister has taken all the steps that I have taken, those first three, there have been a lot of turns where you have found that intervention is not desirable. And if you think it's politically desirable, it doesn't fit the standards. By checking and checking what is in criminal law and what has been said in case law, you as a minister limit your freedom, but you also know damn well that if you don't map that correctly, the chances are that you will be flogged back, either by the Chamber or by the judge. I have another argument why the legal road is not a good solution. I've said that before. That's because that's always an individual way. You can't say anything to an institution with that. There are institutions and I would like to refer once again to the debate on the schools in Amsterdam, on which I think it has also been said Chamberwide: we do not think it is desirable for a director to sit there who makes statements that we find far out of line when it comes to social responsibility, and that we will soon be able to do nothing but pay for that school. I would also find it extremely frustrating if I had nothing else to do later than say: I find it very annoying, but unfortunately there are no other means and one can only go to court individually for individual cases. Because at that school, nothing else changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u80	It seems to me that a solution can be found in this connection between the individual legal person and the institutional legal person. The route proposed by the Minister, namely to determine as an executive power that a criminal offence has been committed, seems to me to be an extremely slippery path. I am very afraid that if this is not repaired, we will be incredibly delayed by legislation, because at some point the Minister will be forced to start over. I would be extremely sorry to hear that. I therefore repeat my plea: let us look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u81	I repeat that we have looked at this very long and very closely and that we have followed the system of other education legislation here. This also applies: if an institution has to stop for one reason or another, for example because of the quality of education, we first take a decision and then, if necessary, it can be reviewed by the judge. I think that's what we're doing here with the separation of powers. We make the law and judge review.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u82	My concerns relate to a number of points. Firstly, the Minister was sent on the road with a motion by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Duisenberg on constitutional and constitutional law. The Minister here confines himself to Article 1 of the Constitution, the principles of anti-discrimination or equality. I am concerned about the secondary arrangement of fundamental rights. Can it confirm that Article 1 of the Constitution is not intended to stand above other constitutional articles? Secondly, it is a question of discrimination in the courts, but it will be a matter for the Minister. In order to reassure us, she says that the Chamber can find some of that. I am not reassured, but I find that an additional concern because I think that an accidental majority in the Chamber cannot decide what discrimination is. That's really up to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u83	The motion did say "the rule of law." I have deliberately chosen, precisely because the rule of law is much wider, to make it a clear standard. If Mr Rog wants the rule of law, he can do so, but that is contrary to what Mr Bishop and Mr Van Meenen are asking: will the space not be too large for a minister? That's gonna make it even bigger. That is precisely why I decided not to take the rule of law, but to clarify what is at stake at the heart of the matter. Then I come to Article 1 of the Constitution. I have said on several occasions that this is obviously very closely listened to. You don't want the freedom of education to be threatened with that. That is why I hope that the cases, on which I have replied in the direction of Mr Duisenberg, will clarify. It's a good thing this is part of the history of law. If, as an arbitrary minister, you think there is discrimination, you cannot just say to a teacher or a principal: you do things that we do not like. No, there is a very clear limit, so that question will always have to be asked by a minister, and rightly so. Then it is not only the Lower House that controls, but also always the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u84	The route described by the minister implies being a careful procedure, but ultimately puts the decision to the executive or legislative power instead of the judiciary. That's a bit of a weird figure, isn't it? Can the Minister explain and defend why she chose that route?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u85	I'm in line with education law. We are looking for means to maintain and allow the inspection to take place, for example if an institution makes a total mess of it financially or if the quality of education is so bad that you cannot do it to the students anymore. We'll follow that line in here, too. There are no other options for dealing with an institution within education legislation. The criminal, legal path is always an individual path through which individuals can take an institution to court. I have no resources in this respect. I do have the means to intervene in other considerations when colleges or universities perform completely wrongly. I do not want to limit it to the one case that has been mentioned here many times, because I have indeed looked into how we can ensure that this is future-proof and not arbitrary. However, when we come together, I hear that on several occasions, not only now but almost all the group chairmen say that we think that we should give shape to that awareness of social responsibility, to that awareness of citizenship, not only for individuals but also for institutions, this fits very well within the scope of executive power. The freedom of education is also covered by the roadmap I have just outlined. The context needs to be taken into account, including, for example, Article 23. Mr President, allow me to comment on another subject as well. There was an amendment tabled by Mr Rog on this subject. It is a question of the amendment to item No. 8 on the protection of the Lectorate. With this amendment, Mr Rog wants to legally anchor the position and tasks of lecturers in HBO. Actually, he wants to make the comparison with lecturers and professors at the university to give them a protected and clear position. Lectors are important for higher education, but I do insist that we strengthen the whole occupational column. In the context of "advocacy" of education, it is very important to make the route from vmbo to mbo and hbo attractive, even in the future. To this end, cooperation between VMBO and MBO in particular, but also between MBO and HBO, must take place. In order to allow this cooperation to land properly, attention should be paid not only to educational programmes, but also to electives and research, in particular to the research that lecturers do in professional practice. Lectors also have the task of doing their research in a practical way, in cooperation with the professions they are dealing with. This is particularly good at regional level. Cooperation between colleges and ROCs as knowledge partners in the region is something I would very much like to pursue. What do we see in practice? There are already many lecturers who work both in colleges and MBO institutions. In my view, this can certainly help to strengthen the professional column. There are now more than 20 MBO settings to which also lecturers are attached. For most people, they have an appointment as a lecturer at a college and therefore work in MBO schools. There are two MBO schools, the ROC West Brabant and the Hoornbeeck College, which have a full-time lecturer. At the Alpha-college and Stenden Hogeschool there is a double appointment. If we want to protect this title, how can we at the same time ensure that these forms of cooperation between MBO and HBO are also fruitful in terms of research? Lectors working at a college can be useful if they also work at the MBO. At the same time, the MBO presents itself with the independent development of a practice-oriented lecturer. Within the MBO work is being carried out on so-called "preactors." This is subject to quality standards. I'm funding that initiative from my department. It's nice when there's a possibility of growing from practice-oriented lecturer, the practitioner, to lecturer on the HBO. What effect does Mr Rog's amendment have? I would like it not to hinder this type of cooperation and to give us some room for development. At the same time, I understand the question. I also know that the Association of Colleges has established a profile with general quality requirements that a lecturer must meet. It would be my preference not to shut down what lecturers do. That is the risk involved in the amendment. I would like to see Mr Rog's amendment as an incentive to make administrative arrangements with the lecturers working or employed on the MBO. They must meet the quality requirements set by the Association of Colleges. This may encourage the clarity of what lecturers have to comply with, which is also valid as a lecturer working in the MBO: it must meet the quality requirements of the MBO and at the same time that lecturers are not excluded from working in the MBO. It can also boost or, in neat Dutch, stimulate the development of a form of practice in the MBO. I could imagine, looking at Mr Rog, that he would like to turn his amendment into a motion in this direction. I would appreciate that very much. Then perhaps we have the best of two worlds: the lecturer position is better protected, so that there can be no proliferation of lecturers in the MBO I understand that Mr Rog does not want to do so and at the same time that professional column can be strengthened in terms of research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u86	In any case, I agree with the Minister that the position of the lecturer in the HBO is important, hence the amendment.... and that it is important in the MBO to develop the practitioners further. I can imagine that we want to secure this last one as we do with the professorate in HBO. At the same time, I share the Minister's view that cooperation in this sector is necessary. I thank the Minister for her response. I'm going to see if this is going to lead to an amended amendment or a motion, as the Minister suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u87	We'll wait and see. There is also the amendment to point No. 12, by Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u88	I see that for the first time now. It refers to my remark that there are no exceptions at all. That's how I understand it. The point is that the term "university" and "high school" should only be used for institutions recognised as WHW institutions. That goes beyond what I intended. It means that any institution that does not fit into the WHW system may no longer use the term "university" or "high school." So there are more institutions that have to choose a different name for that. That is not my preference, but it has a certain consistency in itself, as I said earlier. In order to be able to look at this amendment in a more legal way, I will take this point into account in the further written reply, if Mr Beertema agrees. I hear he's okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u89	Then that's a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u90	I would like to return to the debate on the lecturer between the Minister and Mr Rog. Can the Minister include in her reply whether Mr Rog is in his motion or whatever, whatever the consequence of the binary system, and in particular how it is used abroad? Then what will be the English term for "lector"? We just had a whole discussion about "university" and "university of applied sciences." It seems important to me to understand what the consequence is for that important distinction, even if you look abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u91	I do, but as far as we know, the term "associated professor" is common for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u92	At the beginning, the Minister said that we will also receive a number of written answers. I believe that the few points that have been discussed here this afternoon will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u93	I could not go into the questions about the degree, so about the title "bachelor" and "master." Moreover, they have many similarities with the questions about the indications and differences between "high school" and "university." So the general line is not different, but I will answer the more specific questions in writing. The same applies to the questions that everyone has actually asked about the complete cycle requirement, the requirement that new non-cost institutions wishing to grant diplomas should have completed the whole cycle first. This concerns, as I say very briefly, the recovery of legislation. So that's nothing new. There's an error in the law being corrected. I shall therefore return to the questions that have been raised on this subject in writing. The latter also applies once again to the amendments, because some have changed numbers. I will send this to the Chamber in the short term, because I hope that we will soon be able to complete this legal process with regard to social issues and social responsibility in some institutions. Then I have the means to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-9.u94	Colleagues are waiting for the promised answers. I would like to thank the Minister and his colleagues.
