ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u1	Mr. Chairman. The discussion on the position of Zeeland has resulted in quite a lot of discussion. A motion by Mr Van der Staaij, who was adopted by the General Reviews, has also been taken back. In that motion, the government was asked to assume an active and supportive role in relation to the province of Zeeland. A committee set up by the Empire and the Province, led by Mr Balkenende, has produced a splendid report on Zeeland. On this basis, the province of Zeeland has developed a number of proposals, but because the pole of the province is just a little too short at the moment, the province has requested that the pole be extended slightly, so that it can make the jump. That leap is urgently needed, because the province of Zeeland, because of its position, is more or less likely to spoil between the large urban region of Antwerp and the Randstad, even though I do not mean that it is derogatory. As the Minister responded in general consultation rather persistently, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Van der Staaij motion c.s. (34550, No. 22) was adopted with the support of 147 seats in three absentees;]] [[Whereas the Chamber attaches great importance to the speedy implementation of the motion;]] [[invites the Government, no later than one week before the votes on the 2017 budgets, to inform the Chamber of how the Cabinet provides support, including the commitment of financial coverage in the 2017 budget, to the implementation of the opinions of the Balkenende Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Albert de Vries, Mr Bruins, Mr Koolmees, Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29697-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u2	Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u3	Well, we're gonna have to see about that, because he's gonna be here. But you'll thank him in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u4	I mean the answer in the first round.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u5	Mr. Chairman. The commitment of the Minister of Finance to help the Zeeuws buy and house Enduris and Evides in a new Zeeuws utility company was the only bright spot in general consultation. This would allow people to keep their jobs at the network company. It is only a bright spot, because it really depends on whether this proposal is feasible for shareholders. The financial capacity of Zeeland is very limited, with a general reserve of only 33 million and a further tens of millions of questions concerning the restoration of the Thermphos site. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the low energy prices have contributed to the financial difficulties of DELTA;]] [[noting that the Cabinet is working on a solution for DELTA with a high level of employment in Zeeland;]] [[calls on the Government to work out this solution in consultation with the shareholders, taking into account the financial position of the shareholders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Albert de Vries, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Bruins, Mr Koolmees, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Bosman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29697-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u6	The rest of the AO was quite a disappointment. If you think there are no problems at all in advance, why is a committee set up? And then why is former Prime Minister Balkenende asked to be President of it? And why is a statement by a very large majority of the House ignored and called into question? To say the least, that's not very courteous, is it? Why does the Minister not see the urgency of declining Zeeland's economic strength after all the job losses in recent years? What's with the wait-and-see attitude? Now that the Minister does not want to act proactively, he is forcing the Chamber to come forward with its own amendments. I find that really very disappointing. For this reason the Labour Party has the motion-Van der Staaij c.s. (34550, No. 22) and the Bishop motion co-signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u7	Mr. Chairman. We had a very important general discussion with the Minister about the beautiful Zeeland. The important question is how the opinions of the Balkenende Commission will be implemented financially. Mr De Vries has just mentioned this. The province has indicated that it itself will make 25 million euros available to strengthen that very beautiful Zeeland economy. And what does the Empire do? The situation seems to be becoming more worrying, for example through the development at the phosphorus plant Thermphos, where the restructuring of the bankrupt phosphorus plant seems to be going much more expensive. The CDA would like the government to examine to what extent the Waste Fund can contribute to the implementation of the opinions of the Balkenende Commission, in particular with regard to Smart Delta Resources. That is why I tabled the next motion together with the SGP and supported the other motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that during the general consultation, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment indicated Circular Economy that funds for innovations are still available in the Waste Fund;]] [[Whereas these possibilities may allow Zeeland to help finance healthy business cases in the short term;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the contribution of the Waste Fund to the implementation of the opinions of the Balkenende Commission, in particular as regards Smart Delta Resources, and to inform the Court of Justice of this at least one week before the votes on the 2017 budgets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29697-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u8	We hope, of course, that the Minister will take a positive look at all these motions so that we can see how we can speed up in Zeeland, because that is what is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u9	Mr. Chairman. I thank the ministers for sending reports on the position of DELTA and the nuclear power plant. It is good that the accompanying letter states that there is a constructive dialogue between the cabinet and shareholders. That is crucial, and that remains crucial, because Zeeland's problems are not falling. In fact, with the clean-up of Thermphos, the province of Zeeland sees an expenditure item of €700,000 per month on the balance sheet. Does the Minister consider this additional financial problem of Thermphos to be a risk to the solution of the separation of the nuclear power plant? All in all, it is good that there is a solution for the nuclear power plant that takes into account the financial position of Zeeland. I read in the letter that priority must be given to nuclear safety and that it must always be secured. It has to be. It is also good to read that the cabinet has an eye for achieving a sustainable solution. I wish the cabinet and shareholders a great deal of wisdom in the near future in order to find a good solution. In the various solutions, the creation of a Zeeuws utility company could be an option. My colleague De Vries of the PvdA has tabled a motion on this subject, with my support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u10	I understand the Minister can answer immediately, so I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u11	Mr. Chairman. I think it would be a good idea to say something first in a general sense in connection with the motion in part No. 27 which Mr Bishop has submitted. He indicated that the necessary steps should be taken and that the Chamber should be informed about the follow-up one week before the votes on the 2017 Economic Affairs budget. In the discussions I had with the Chamber on Zeeland and in the letter, the cabinet response on the report of the Balkenende Commission, I indicated that the Cabinet is prepared to look together with all the parties in the region, including the province, at how a number of actions can be undertaken and how these actions can be financed by the means of existing European programmes and national programmes. I have recently, together with Zeeland, taken stock of the state of play of the actions of the Balkenende Committee, to what extent it is concrete and whether it can be linked with amounts. My conclusion is that although there are plans for several actions, the hardness and practicality of these plans still require attention and therefore the financial underpinning and hardness of possible financial commitments. You must first have a plan that meets the requirements before you can see what possibilities there are for funding and what amounts can be allocated to it. I think it is right to give a few examples of what this is about, what actions, and what resources might be available for this. I would like to mention a few of those actions separately. The first is about the circular economy, another is about experimental space, energy and delta technology. I'll take it together. Then I will come back to the 'librability agenda' action. Let me start with the example of the circular economy, the experimental space, energy and delta technology. It is possible to use the subsidy scheme Stimulation of Sustainable Energy Production for this purpose, the SDE+ scheme. It is possible to use the demonstration energy innovation scheme, the DEI scheme. It may be possible to use European Structural Funds. There are also research resources for energy which we have released and which can also be used for this purpose in Zeeland. And there is a human capital agenda of the top sectors of energy and water that could be made available for the development of the Centre or expertise Wind at sea. These are possibilities to finance, but that plan must first be developed. Those action points must be harder. Then you can see if it is possible to link that funding to that. Another example is the Lifeability Agenda. For this purpose, the annual benefit can be used under the programme Population Reduction. For Terneuzen, this annual benefit amounts to €400,000. The Province Fund has a measure of population decline. For Zeeland, this amounts to an annual payment of 4 million. Then there is the sector plan Borderless Work, with a budget for all border provinces, including Zeeland, in which there is 4.9 million. Depending on the implementation of the plan, it can be drawn from it. Then there is the Interreg Flanders-Netherlands programme, in which EUR 11.6 million of European funding is available for the labour market alone. That could also be used for Zeeland. I make €300,000 available to the regional development company Impuls Zeeland. This means that the Zeeland coordinator, who is in charge of directing and shaping the follow-up to the report of the Balkenende Commission, can produce all kinds of things. This depends on the further implementation of the action lines and plans, their hardness and the possibilities for making money available from the available resources from Europe and the Empire. The second science college was also discussed in the consultation with the Chamber. Depending on the further implementation, the Minister of OCW could also consider what resources could be made available in the framework of the Strategic Agenda for Higher Education and Research from 2018. As far as DELTA is concerned, the Minister for Finance and I have already indicated that, because of the fact that the nuclear power station is also in sight and we do not want to run any risk with nuclear safety, we are prepared, in addition to our own contribution from Zeeland, to give a guarantee for an additional loan if a construction is set up with a Zeeland utility company. In this way, the utility activities in Zeeland will remain in place and money will be made available to avoid possible future risks from the nuclear power plant. All this needs to be worked out in greater detail. That's what the Zeeland coordinator is for. That is what is going to happen, together with Zeeland, the relevant ministries and the Commission's representative on the funds and programmes. I see an opportunity to inform the Chamber in the first quarter of 2017 about what comes out of it. That is certainly not possible in the short term, as indicated in the motion. So I intend to do what I have just indicated, but the deadline set in the motion is too short. If that deadline is replaced by the first quarter of 2017, it is possible for me to do what I have just said. That is, I think, also what is needed in Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u12	I thank the Minister for his approach to the issue. That offers real perspective. I would appreciate it if, in mid-December, six weeks from now, a state of affairs could be reported. Then I have no objection that the presentation of the plan will take place in the first quarter of 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u13	If what I have indicated is the interpretation of the motion, I think I can get out of it, partly in view of the reaction that Mr Bishop is giving. In December, I will report on what Mr Bisschop is asking for and in the first quarter of 2017 I will come up with the concrete impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u14	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u15	With this explanation I leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 27 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u16	Can I ask a question about this, too? The Minister therefore estimates that in the first quarter of 2017 he will be able to make positive statements on these projects. He says that it will simply take time to work this out, but he does see that these projects are so promising that there is a chance of being honored. In Mr Dijkgraaf's motion, that date is not for nothing. It states the date: one week before the vote. That would mean that the Chamber could still amend and make its own proposals. Is the Minister saying that there's no need and that it's gonna be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u17	I say that at least the Chamber did not come up with a proposal at the General Reviews to add extra money to the EZ budget for this purpose. Also in the Financial Reviews, no additional money has been added to the EZ budget for this purpose. This means that I do not have a budget line that says: Zeeland zoo- and so many million. I do have a lot of budget lines that contain all kinds of activities that are intended for the whole country and therefore also for Zeeland. Zeeland is a very active province with active provincial government and active municipalities. Zeeland is ambitious and has been translated into Mr Balkenende's report. I am very willing to work out the various ambitions together with Zeeland, the municipalities and the province, under the guidance of the coordinator I have just mentioned. I would also like to look at how the funding available to me and to the European Commission can be used to this end. I'm gonna work out all that and then I'm gonna inform the Chamber about that. I can say this in response to what Mr De Vries has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u18	For the Acts, I would point out that we are talking about the Bishop and others motion. and not about the Dijkgraaf c.s. motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u19	The motion-Van der Staaij c.s. (34550, No. 22) was submitted to the General Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u20	To keep it simple: now the motion is Bishop c.s. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for the work they have done on this subject. has been submitted. We have adapted that because Mr Dijkgraaf is not here. The motion Bishop c.s. refers, indeed, to the Van der Staaij and others motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u21	Mr President, you are absolutely right. I just have one more question to make sure. In general consultation, the Minister said quite clearly that Zeeland actually had no problem. That is what has happened to all the participants in the AO's idea that the Minister does not consider it necessary at all that the projects in the Balkenende report should be honoured. He's clearly saying something different now. Can he confirm that he is now looking at this differently and that he is really going to look carefully at how he is going to make these projects possible from the means he indicates?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u22	No, because I have been careful in the cabinet response to the report of the Balkenende Committee. I have also been careful in the discussions with the Chamber. I didn't say anything was wrong. I said that Zeeland is the province with the lowest unemployment. I have also said that there are a few things on the agenda in Zeeland which have been worked out in the report of the Balkenende Committee and now need to be further worked out. Then we can look at the possibilities within my budget and within the European programmes. If that is further developed, we can become more concrete. There is no budget line at EZ with so many million for Zeeland. Nor is there a budget line with so many million for the provinces. We have all kinds of posts for all kinds of projects and programs. Of course Zeeland comes into the picture. Of course, it helps very much if you have a report, such as that of the Balkenende Committee, in which concrete proposals are made, for which Zeeland wants to work and for which the municipalities and the province want to work. We will be happy to look together with the European Commission at the possibilities for their programmes. I will try to fill it out with the same care as I did in the cabinet response and in the consultation with the Chamber. After there was in the motion-Albert de Vries c.s. in piece No. 28 the government is asked to work out the solution for DELTA in consultation with the shareholders, taking into account the financial position of the shareholders. That is what I believe should be done. We had this consultation with the province and the municipalities, which are part of the shareholders of DELTA. In addition, you have RWE as a shareholder. We've discussed the possibilities with them. We have discussed this with the Chamber in general, and we are now working on it further. The points of interest and the observations made by Mr De Vries are also mine. His request is in line with our intention, so I would like to leave Mr De Vries's opinion on this motion to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Bishop on item No. 29, asking the Government to examine the contribution of the Waste Fund to the implementation of the opinions of the Balkenende Commission, in particular with regard to Smart Delta Resources, and to inform the Court of Justice of this at least one week before the votes on the 2017 budget. Mrs Mulder started the general discussion on the Waste Fund. I have looked into that more closely. When it was discussed in October about the possibility of using this fund for Smart Delta Resources in Zeeland, Mrs Dijksma replied that the Waste Fund is only available for packaging and packaging materials and therefore does not provide a solution for the projects of Smart Delta Resources. This does not prevent me from looking with the province of Zeeland and the regional parties concerned at the extent to which the existing instruments and resources can be used for Smart Delta Resources. Then you could look at the SDE+ scheme or the Demonstration Energy Innovation Scheme. That's what I'm gonna do. In addition, at the beginning of next year, I will draw attention to Smart Delta Resources in the round table with the chemical sector, where we talk about further strengthening chemical clusters, cooperation in chemical chains and knowledge sharing. I will also include this initiative of the SDR platform. Within my possibilities, I will do as Mrs Mulder wishes, but the Waste Fund is not the right instrument, as Mrs Dijksma said. That is why I reject Mrs Mulder's motion on item No. 29.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u23	Thank you very much for the Minister's specific attention. It would be a pity if that were to remain in place, while there is still a lot to be done for next year. Hence my request to the Minister to see if he can send a letter to the Chamber in January on the possibilities. Then we can talk about that before the recess. My request to the Minister is to consider whether this is possible. The same applies to Mr Bishop's motion, which includes my name. I would like us to keep up the momentum, because things are not going well in Zeeland. The fact that there is no unemployment there is because everyone has already left. Then you may not have that problem anymore, but we want future generations to be able to stay at work and build a future. Is the Minister sensitive to my desire to send that letter to the Chamber as early as January?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u24	I am not going to confirm that everyone has left Zeeland and that there is therefore no unemployment. I come to Zeeland regularly. There are very large industries, where thousands of people work, successful. In Vlissingen, a new naval station is set up with 1,700 jobs, with all kinds of indirect jobs attached. We are going to set up two large wind farms off the coast of Borsele, from which all kinds of activities result. These activities, linked to the transition to renewable energy, generate 90,000 jobs by 2020, partly in Zeeland. So I think it really is a caricature to say that everyone has moved away from Zeeland and that there is no work. Zeeland is a province with very large industrial companies, large port activities and all kinds of other activities. It is also a province with a high level of employment in tourism. As a result of all these activities, unemployment is currently the lowest in the Netherlands. However, this does not alter the fact that developments are taking place there which require attention, as rightly outlined in Mr Balkenende's report. I also give that attention with conviction. I would like the lines of action to be well worked out in order to link money to it, as far as I have that available. If I have not worked out those lines properly, I cannot come to the conclusion that money can be allocated to them either. In the first quarter of 2017, I will. So I am not saying that I will do so in January 2017. I must have it worked out properly and as soon as that effect is completed, I will give an overview to the Chamber. I will do nothing to delay that; on the contrary, I will do it as soon as possible, at least in the first quarter of 2017. Mr Bosman raised the issue of Thermphos. Thermphos is a company that went bankrupt. It worked with permits granted. The company's gone. The owner of the land must now ensure that the business is cleaned up there. The province of Zeeland is actively working on this. I have recently understood that there are new developments that I have not yet been able to take note of. I can't make the connection to the nuclear power plant yet either. I think it's a general focus. As Mr Bosman said, the province of Zeeland has several problems at the same time. The province does not have very large resources, like other provinces that decided at the time to sell their energy companies and sometimes received billions for them. Zeeland has not done so and now has no money. If there are new problems or if existing problems get bigger, this is relevant information, which we will certainly involve in the consultations we are having with Zeeland. I can certainly promise that to Mr Bosman. That is what I wanted to give the Chamber in response to what it has brought in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-23.u25	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
