ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the third-term reply by Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members very much for the questions and comments in the third term. It is true that not only here in the Chamber, but also within the political groups and beyond, the importance of organ donation has been put back on the map. I'll take that as a profit. I am also pleased that colleagues are in agreement with the proposed amendments and that I have been able to overcome some of the concerns. It is a pity that not all the objections have been removed, but there were still a few justified questions about the changes I made. Mr Van Gerven and Mr Rutte asked how doctors deal with such no objection registration. The starting point is that someone has no objection and is therefore willing to be a donor. There is no formal need to ask the next of kin for permission, but that makes it easier for the next of kin to understand how this registration was made. That's what they asked for. In practice, it will of course be discussed with the next of kin by the doctors. They should be given the opportunity to provide information that might show that someone did not want to be a donor, while being registered with "no objection'. The next of kin could say: this person could not read or write at all. Or: we talked about this in detail and he or she never wanted to, but it was someone who was very lax and never responded. The next of kin should always be able to do so. For example, if someone never opened the post or if the registration was too complicated, the next of kin can tell the doctor. That is what I am saying to Mr Öztürk. This proposal does not automatically make you a donor. It's very important to realize that. There is much more care to be taken. I notice in this whole debate about the ADR system that people feel like you're a donor when you're registered as an organ donor, but the chances are very small that you're going to be a donor. It's much smaller than the chance you'll ever need an organ. In fact, registering in the donor registry means saying, "I'm willing to be a donor." But these are very exceptional cases. It happens in 1 in 10,000 cases that someone can be a donor. There is a very careful procedure that determines whether someone is suitable. You won't know until it's on the table. So there's a lot more to it. Because it is important that people know what is going on and that the target group actually gets in touch with the municipality when applying for an identity card, passport or driving licence, I wanted to give a formal role to the municipalities. Everyone will therefore receive at least every ten years a reminder that encourages him to check his registration and, if necessary, to change it, because people who have already been registered also have an opportunity to change their mind. You should know that; it's not for eternity. So there's a lot of room for people's doubts. You can change your decision a lot. It is mandatory that the municipality hand over the information personally and stresses the importance of taking the information to you. This information must be carefully prepared by the Government and also refer to possibilities to obtain more information. I say to Mr Öztürk that I fully agree that we must use image and sound and all the new possibilities for communication, especially for the group that Mr Öztürk and others are so concerned about. Mrs Wolbert also said that we want to reach as many people as possible, including those who are low-literate and those who do not have sufficient knowledge of the Dutch language. You often do that in different ways. The Minister also said that we can do so much with that. That is what we must do. Then I come to the more fundamental question, which has arisen once again: the right not to choose, the right to doubt. I understand very well how difficult the choice can be for someone and how difficult it is to ask someone to record their choice. At the moment there is the possibility to do nothing, not to register, but the interesting thing is that that also has consequences, namely that your next of kin decide. That's also something the government has arranged; if you don't register, your next of kin decide. In fact, that principle in my proposal is the same, but in my proposal it is the 'no objection' - that is a term that we hardly know in Dutch - the default, the starting point. There are therefore legal consequences if you do not define your choice, even at this time. I would like to point out to all my colleagues that 9 million people are currently affected by this. They have no choice, so when the donation question comes up, a choice has to be made. We all know that that is a very difficult, about the most difficult moment, to make your choice. The choice to leave the decision to the next of kin remains in the legislative proposal before us today, precisely because I understand because it remains a difficult choice. Finally, I would like to emphasise that I would also like to say to Mr Rutte...... that in 2008 the ADR system, as I propose, was recommended in the Master Plan Organ Donation. We are now proposing a very careful variant of the non-objection system, which the majority of the other European countries already know. In Belgium you are supposed to be willing to be a donor, without that question being asked actively. You have to think for yourself that's how it works there. But in the active donor registration stem that I'm proposing, you're being asked to record your choice several times. As far as I am concerned, this self-determination is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u3	I just quoted from the Masterplan organ donation. It advises an ADR system such as Mrs Dijkstra initially laid down here. That happened with some doubts, which were too great for me, which I have told extensively. But it is true that there has been extensive research into other systems, where it is explicitly concluded that a non-objection system will lead to fewer donors, because of more no-registrations and other things, which discourages this? Isn't that right? That's actually what that plan says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u4	Like I said, that 2008 master plan dates back to eight years ago. In the first term, a lot of research has gone over the table. It turns out it's hard to tell exactly how effective it's gonna be. I think it is very important that the doctors and professionals who have to deal with a situation in which the donor question is asked say: if there is no "objection," it is a very different situation than when nothing is registered, so if people do not know at all. In Wales, by the way, things are moving in the right direction. That gave me the key to admitting to the argument you put forward to make a distinction. Furthermore, I was sensitive to your argument to distinguish the pure yes of people who have registered it from those who have no objection. I have always argued in favour of not making that distinction, because then I fear what you quoted from the master plan. However, given the developments in other countries where this system exists and the fact that we offer people the opportunity to actively choose and decide for themselves, I have chosen to propose this change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u5	I have made it very clear in my term that I very much appreciate the fact that Mrs Dijkstra has made this change. I have genuine concerns about the mixing of yes votes and their effectiveness. It may sound silly, but I don't mean it like that: it really is true that that has been investigated in the master plan and has been explicitly dissuaded? I can't make it prettier than it is, because "it will lead to more no registrations." We cannot simply assume that the number of assents will increase. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u6	I just indicated that that's one of the variants examined in the master plan. Given the developments in recent years and the results in other countries where this system has been adopted, apart from any differences in systems and cultures, there is a clear positive impact. In Wales, where the system we are proposing is surrounded by a lot of communication with the public, we are seeing an upward trend, while we are seeing a downward trend. I think we should take that very seriously. In addition, in 2008, the accompanying policy, set out in the master plan and containing several measures, such as monitoring, good communication and attention to take-out teams in hospitals, has not yet been implemented. All these other measures have been put into effect, but ADR has not. I fully agree with Mr Rutte: my great preference was 'yes', but I have chosen, in view of the objections that exist, to include that 'no objection'. That's what I did because I'm confident. Otherwise, I wouldn't have done it. I have also done so in consultation with everyone I have mentioned before, such as the patients' associations and the medical organizations, and who are involved in this. They have indicated that they are sure that it will have a positive effect. That's why I did this. I didn't think of that myself, because the Chamber thought so. Of course, that's what you're orienting yourself very widely. So I've been talking to them about that, too. That is why I dared and still dared to do so. Only a new way of registering is not enough, that is clear. It falls and stands with the support, the donor's willingness. I actually think that's a very nice word. That might be even better than saying you're an organ donor. No, you're willing to be. Good information and other measures, as advocated in the motions, are also important. I therefore hope that we can see it in conjunction and that the various measures will lead to more lives being saved, because that is what we all want here. That's the lead. I would like to stress once again that I think that we have had a good debate on this subject. I wish my colleagues and all my colleagues in the Chamber who are not here today much wisdom in making a decision. Mine should be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u7	This brings us to the end of this debate. I would like to thank Mrs Pia Dijkstra for her initiative proposal and for the way in which she defended it. It is always very special for Members of Parliament to submit their own own own initiative legislative proposal. It takes a lot of time and a lot of energy. My thanks and appreciation for that. I would also like to thank the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u8	The vote on this legislative initiative, the amendments and the motions will take place next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u9	I would have asked for a roll-call vote in second place. I suppose that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u10	It's always possible. If anyone asks, they will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u11	But then I don't have to ask you again on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u12	Here's what we're gonna do.
