ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u1	Once again, I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. After all, he was just there. I am the first to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen, who speaks on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. "Advocates should now have access to the police interview," said SP's 2006 election programme. We've been ten years, and we're getting what we want, and we're not alone. Since 1 March 2016, it has finally happened, but the discussion about it goes back much further. For 50 years, there has been a dispute as to whether the right to the assistance of a lawyer should extend to the questioning of the police. Taru Sproken described this recent history in the Dutch Lawyers' Magazine. After the judicial error in the Schiedammer Park Murder, the discussion took a new turn. Experiments were carried out and there was justice, and that led to the Netherlands really being able to get around it. In my view, the Netherlands is the last EU country to introduce the right of interrogation. There will be a legal right for suspects to consult an attorney prior to the police interview, the consultation assistance, as well as a legal right to be assisted by an attorney during the interview: the interrogation assistance. These apply to all offences and whether the suspect has been arrested or is in freedom. That's very good, but it didn't go very well. In the legal world, the Salduz judgment has become known as the driving force behind this discussion. There was a European directive, which we are implementing today, and in judgments of the Supreme Court the deadline of 1 March 2016 was mentioned. From that moment on, the defendant had to be informed of the right of counsel during the interrogation. It seems a little like the Minister put forward this bill because it had to and because it really couldn't be any different, rather than from the inner consideration and ambition to provide suspects with the right legal protection and to contribute to a careful police hearing. At least that's the impression of the SP. I think you can see this in several places. There is sometimes a very limited explanation of the directive, and I will come back to that in a moment. In my view, however, this is most clearly reflected in funding. The SP has for a long time made a point that funding for the lawyer is too tight. We have put questions to the House and then the Minister replied that funding is sometimes on the broad side and sometimes on the tight side. My reaction to this is that funding is almost never too broad, but almost always too tight. Later we received a letter in answer to questions about Parliament and the image that came from it was very conservative: we will try this way first, because it should not cost too much money, and then we will see again later. I will give a specific example of a situation: if an arrested suspect is questioned twice for two hours during the insurance scheme, for example because of an infringement of the Opium Act, the lawyer will be paid €158 for about six hours' work. That includes all the organization around the interrogations and the travel time. There are also calculations that show that a lawyer leaves €19.33 per hour, and the office costs and taxes still have to be removed. That's not much. You don't have to get rich from me, but you can't expect lawyers to do all this for their own time and account. If your office is in danger of going down with this, something's going to go very, very wrong. Unlike the Minister's suggestion, things are not going well at all. There is hardly any interrogation assistance in certain regions. There is also a kind of punctuality action: after one and a half hours the lawyer leaves, even if the interviews have not yet been completed. A lot of picket lawyers quit. They're writing themselves out. I get the reports sometimes by cc. It just can't work out, days in a row on call and ride and wait for the police for a fixed amount of about €150. The starting point of the funded legal aid system has so far been that one hour of legal aid should on average be equal to one point. That principle appears to have been abandoned. There is no justification. The minister says he doesn't know how long the interrogations take in criminal matters. I find that very strange, because in many minutes the opening and closing times of the interview are recorded. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. Is the starting point still that one hour of legal aid should be equal to one point? How can it be that it hasn't been investigated before how long interrogation lasts on average? We've known this was coming for a long time, haven't we? In fact, I believe that such research should have been on the table very quickly because this information is available, because minutes can be examined at start and end times, i.e. at the actual time spent. Is it true that this information is there, but apparently the Minister did not want to look for it quickly and actively enough? Are all the cases included in the investigation, including the interviews in serious cases? If we don't, we're getting a distorted image. When can we expect the results of that investigation? What will the government then do with the results of that investigation? Are they being taken over one-on-one, even if that's going to cost money? Is the government prepared to consider a system of actual interrogations, which means that interrogations that take a long time, for example three times the number of hours in advance, could be reimbursed in addition? Is such a system open to discussion by the Minister? The government should not ask lawyers to provide this legal assistance in their own time and on their own account. Otherwise, this would lead to an erosion of the defendant's right to interrogation assistance. It is precisely the financing of this right that is an important and necessary condition for successful and legally responsible implementation and implementation. So provide a reasonable funding! I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u3	I have today tabled an amendment which further elaborates the proposal that the cabinet has incorporated into both legislative proposals that we are now debating. A suspect is entitled to legal aid in the bill, but at some point the question arises as to whether he did it or not. If he's convicted, it's stipulated that he can pay back the attorney's fees if he earns enough. Does Mr Van Nispen share that principle in general? Does he think you should be able to lower the bar? Once someone who has an income is irrevocably convicted, it is difficult to explain to the taxpayer that those costs must be borne by the same taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u4	I'm not getting too excited about this at all. I will come back to this in a moment because I also have questions for the Minister on this point. As soon as a person is convicted, he must be punished, but every effort must be made to pick that person. You need to take what's earned from the crime. That principle is paramount. That's where we'll find each other, if we'll argue for that together. The SP has already taken many initiatives in the past. But if you allow someone who has the right to legal aid to conduct an interview responsibly to overlook the threat that he might have to pay back the lawyer's costs in the future if he uses them, you run the risk that someone will for purely financial reasons waive that right. That is why I will immediately put critical questions to the Minister. I do not get so excited about this, apart from all the implementation costs involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u5	That is a clear answer; I cannot say otherwise. I do not entirely agree with you, but it is a clear answer. It does mean that you have the same criticism of that aspect in the legislative proposal. I put that bar down, but in fact that bar has already been incorporated into the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u6	Sure! I can be brief on that point, because I have already put the questions to the Minister. The SP believes that there is also a very limited explanation of the directive on another point. I was just talking about the funding, and now it's about the lawyer taking part in the interview. The draft decision states that a lawyer may only make observations before or after the hearing or if there is a breach of the prohibition of pressure. That's very limited. I think it's a little too limited. It's not supposed to turn a lawyer into a spectator, is it? In any case, this would not be in line with the directive, which states that the lawyer may participate. Although the EU Directive states that the participation of the lawyer must be in accordance with national procedures, those national procedures should not lead to the non-effective participation or substantially affect the right to participate. I think it is important that we really allow the lawyer to participate in the hearing so that he can ask his client for clarification, to make additional comments on his client's statement or to make a statement, for example to point out facts and circumstances that threaten to escape their attention. It does not appear to be effective at all in practice. If the lawyer at the end still has to go back to something that happened at the very beginning of the interrogation, then you're gonna have to do that bit more or less over. 30 pages going to browse back and doing that part again isn't convenient at all. I believe that this is behind the fear of abuse of this right. It seems to me to be unfounded. The Dutch Order of Lawyers has made a protocol about the behaviour of the lawyer. It states that the counsel is reluctant during the interrogation, because during the police interview the importance of the truth finding is guiding. In addition, there is the requirement, Article 8 of the draft decision, that the lawyer who disrupts the procedure can be warned and even removed from the interrogation room. So there is already a sanction on it. Why do we not say in the decision: the lawyer is a legal aid provider, not a spectator in the interview, and he or she is acting as such with respect for the fact that the interviewing official is in charge? I would like to receive a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u7	The lawyer also has the task of doing everything in his client's favor, of course within the rules of the legal profession. But it can't be the intention that we give lawyers so much space that they can eventually completely disrupt an interrogation, when that's in the interests of a client?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u8	No. The lawyer must indeed do much in the interests of his or her client, but not disrupt the interrogation. Sanctions may be imposed on them; they are also contained in the draft decision. I'm not questioning these sanctions. I referred to the protocol of the Dutch Bar Association, which also states that the lawyer is reluctant to act during the hearing. I am not questioning those sanctions, but I do not think it is right to apply the restriction that the Minister has chosen, namely that the lawyer should only be allowed to make comments before the hearing and after the hearing. That means you have to keep your mouth shut for a long time. Moreover, it does not appear to be efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u9	I've been a criminal attorney myself, so I know I've talked to my colleagues a lot about it. It can be very important to ask a question at a crucial moment, because you know that your client will come to himself for a while. You're breaking a trajectory where the police might get to the truth. It is up to a lawyer to ensure that his client has the best position, including at the end of the interview. Well, that could even be a bitch. Doesn't the SP recognize that at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u10	If Mrs Van Toorenburg asks the question in this way, she will also be opposed to a lawyer being allowed to apply for an interrogation hearing once. That is my second question; I understand that is not the intention. No, I don't recognize that it's unwise to give the lawyer more space in the interrogation. I think, on the contrary, that it will be more practical in practice to have the lawyer ask for and make clarification from time to time, so that you do not have to take back all those pages on what was said a long time ago in the interview.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u11	Finally, I do not think it would be wise to give lawyers an opportunity in between, but that aside. I do think it's a misconception of the position of a lawyer, who will eventually have to take his space in an interrogation to make sure the client gets the best out of it. I think that can also compete with the interests of the police, the truth finding, ultimately in the interests of victims. I'm disappointed the SP doesn't see that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u12	I think that the SP has more confidence in the legal profession on this point than the CDA, which seems to be assuming a little bit of it, and I also see this in the Minister's proposals that the lawyers are going to disrupt the hearing, because they are allowed to be there. I don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u13	If I understand the CDA correctly, lawyers are no longer allowed to interfere. That is very important, as Mr Van Nispen has just explained. Is Mr Van Nispen also aware that the question of the extent to which the lawyer's active participation in the hearing has been referred to the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u14	Yeah, I'm aware of that. As far as I know, questions have indeed been referred for a preliminary ruling. I think it has been said that there is still parliamentary debate. I don't think one thing or the other has to bite each other. We are the legislator, so we are allowed to define the frameworks here. I do not think that we need to wait until the High Council has discussed this issue with this debate, with decisions on this point or with any amendments and motions. I think it is up to the legislator to give a ruling on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u15	Please continue your speech, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u16	My next point relates to the fact that Article 28c requires that the defendant has a maximum of half an hour to consult with the lawyer prior to the interrogation. I imagine that will not be enough in all cases. Often perhaps, but sometimes it takes longer. The government recognizes that, too. The note on the report states that there is a need to act reasonably and that more time may be needed for consultation, especially in more complex criminal cases. Then why is that so mandatory in the law? I don't think that's wise. It is for that reason that I have made an amendment. According to the Dutch Order of Lawyers, waiver of the right to assistance can only be justified in the face of an attorney. However, that was not the case. You can also waive your right to assistance with an investigative officer. It's in Article 28a. You will be informed about the consequences of this by the police. Isn't it risky to be able to give up on an investigative officer who's in there from another role? If, for example, it points to any adverse effects, such as a possible risk of a longer period of questioning or costs, and makes less explicit reference to the consequences and risks of relinquishing the right to the assistance of a lawyer, that decision may not be taken at all as considered as we would like, even if the words "voluntary" and "undoubled" appear in Article 28a. Why is it not the starting point that only the right to assistance to an attorney can be waived? What would be against that? Wouldn't that be much easier to organise in the future, for example through videoconferencing? I believe that an amendment was tabled this afternoon by colleagues from the VVD and the PvdA. If that is to do with this and that is to do with this point, I will judge it with warm interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u17	Speaking of amendments, you have just spoken of an amendment that you have tabled. Is that the amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Swinkels?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u18	I think it's 34157, no. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u19	So it is the amendment in part No. 8. I was trying to help, but I think I'm just creating confusion. You'd better get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u20	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think it is indeed the amendment to item No. 8 to the 34157 bill. I now come to the second legislative proposal: the one with file number 34159, with the additional provisions in support of the other legislative proposal. The SP wants the recording of interrogations to take place much more often than now, in the interest of truth finding. Sometimes later questions may arise as to the exact way the interview went. The material should actually be available if a lawyer or a judge wishes to learn about it later, to avoid discussion about the course of the interview or to settle it correctly. Now only the interviews in the case of more serious crimes are compulsory, as well as interviews with vulnerable suspects. I don't really see a good reason not to expand this. The government's objections are above all that this is very organisationally difficult and that it is going to cost money. I'm not denying the latter. I'm sure it is, especially since the police need the right equipment. It's missing now, as we all know. That is all true, but I do not think it is a good argument to register the interviews but not audiovisually or auditory. I also wonder how expensive it will actually be. We don't need the most expensive and high-quality recording equipment for this, do we? For example: nowadays everyone has a camera or sound recording device in their pocket. How much can this be at all? I'd like to get a comprehensive response to this. I have a short question about the deadline for the interrogation. I understand the fact that it is proposed to hold people up a little longer for the interrogation investigation, but I would warn that nine hours instead of the current six hours will not be the new standard. It will sometimes be necessary, but how do we prevent the new nine-hour deadline being used too often, even if it is not necessary? I come to the amendment to item No. 8 to the second bill, which you just mentioned, Mr. Chairman. Right now, the district attorney has the power to decide to arrest a suspect out of the blue. It is proposed that this should be left to the Deputy Prosecutor, even if there is no urgency. I don't think this is a good idea. I also refer to a critical article by two prosecutors and a judge in the Dutch Juristenblad. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, it can be read that in the event of planned arrests outside the law, the public prosecutor will usually be known in practice. If that is the case, it raises the question of why this rule should be deleted, especially since the note on the report then states that the aim is indeed that the Deputy Prosecutor in practice in most cases decides on detentions outside the law. What is it? What's the point? Or what will the practice be? Is the district attorney known in advance in the decision, or isn't he? Even the rule that the arrest must be reported immediately to the Public Prosecutor expires. Why is that? The result of this proposal may be that the prosecutor will be more distant from the investigation. Now, for example, the district attorney with his knowledge from the courtroom can still direct the evidence or order further investigation. This is to the benefit of the matter and of the quality of the investigation. In short, I do not think this is a sensible proposal from the government. That is why I tabled an amendment on this point, together with Mr Schwinkels. Thanks to Mr van Oosten's interruption, I can now be brief on the recovery of legal aid costs. So it's about people who have suspect status. So they have not yet been convicted and are at the stage of interrogation. I think there is a risk that people who know or hear that they may have to pay back the costs of the counsel at the hearing later, waive the right to consult the lawyer in advance or have him present. The question to the government is how real they estimate that risk. The question is also whether this is worth it, because it costs a lot to introduce it and because we have already taken the measure of picking to take away illegally obtained benefit. I think that this is a fair measure to deal with criminals in the wallet, but the threat of paying back these costs seems to me to be an unwise proposal. Do the benefits outweigh the costs and risks? Once again, I would like to have an extensive reflection from the Minister on this point. Finally, I would like to comment on the police and the costs involved in this proposal. I have already talked about the costs of this bill for the legal profession and the lack of public funding. That also applies very, very intrusive to the police. At first we understood that the bill would bring 200 FTEs of workload for the police. Recovery: they are already more than 200, because they can also be 455 FTEs. The funding comes from the so-called extra money for the police: the famous EUR 105 million of this cabinet period, which has always been opposed to a huge cut. Even 2,000 FTEs of police officers will have to disappear in the next few years. The logical question then is where these people come from. We asked the same question. Although the answer should not surprise me anymore because I have heard it more often, it surprised me: it all comes within the established operational strength, it does not go at the expense of other priorities and the police have to plan more efficiently. That's the Minister's name again. The work is already huge on the shoes of the police. So I am going to ask the question again here today and I expect a better answer now. Where do the 200 to 450 FTEs come from and at what cost? Reprioritisation inevitably means that you will not do other things well or less well. Does it actually cost extra money to adjust the interrogation rooms? Why is it not chosen to provide additional funding to the police for this? Is the Minister prepared to do so, knowing that we are all awaiting the implementation of the Kooiman c.s motion adopted when the 2016 budget is being examined? asking for extra money for the police? When can we get that? The annual report and the Court of Auditors report show that in recent years there has been a deficit of EUR 72 million in the national police force, that long-term debts have doubled and that own funds have fallen by 30%. The Court also predicts significant deficits in the near future. The Court states that better supervision is needed, that more money is needed for the required performance of the police and that any policy and legislative change should better identify the financial consequences. How does this criticism relate to this bill? I think I know the answer, but I'd love to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing two legislative proposals, as you have just said. The first concerns the implementation of the Directive laying down minimum rules on the right of access to a counsellor in criminal proceedings and surrender proceedings and the right to inform a third party about deprivation of liberty and the right to communicate with third parties after deprivation of liberty. In the past, the government has already started legislation because of the so-called Salduz case law, but due to delays, agreement has already been reached on the directive. The proposed legislation contains more subjects than just the right to legal aid by a counsellor. However, since an implementing legislative proposal may only include the necessary for implementation, the remaining issues in the previously proposed legislation are...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u22	Oh, yeah. You will be served at your beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u23	The other issues in the previously proposed legislation are covered by a separate legislative proposal, which we are also discussing today. It concerns the provisions on the suspect, the counselor and some coercive measures. It is therefore a good thing that these legislative proposals are being dealt with at the same time today. Apart from that, interrogation assistance has already started on 1 March. The Minister writes in his letter "that the law is being implemented faster than expected." By what? By stating in the judgment of 22 December last year that the right to interrogation assistance should apply from 1 March 2016. I see the Minister nodding, but in my opinion the Supreme Court does not say that at all. The Supreme Court says: "The Supreme Court therefore assumes that as of 1 March 2016 the rule that an arrested suspect is entitled to the assistance of a counsellor during his interview by the police will be applied." Why is the Supreme Court saying this? That is also stated in the judgment: "In the light of the case-law of the ECHR in question, legal certainty is served by the fact that the Supreme Court is now tightening up the rules on legal aid'. In other words, the Supreme Court itself comes up with a tightening up of the rules, because the European Court of Human Rights does not take a position on the right to legal aid and the consequences that the lack of legal aid should have, and because legal regulation is awaiting. Why does this bother my group so much? That is firstly because the Minister and the High Council are two different state powers, which operate independently of each other. Secondly, it is because the national legislator has to legislate without going to the European Court of Human Rights, as far as my group is concerned. Thirdly, it is because of the fact that both consultation and interrogation assistance is making a significant attack on the already heavily overdemanded capacity of the national police. I'll come back to that later. After this introduction and a point of criticism, if you will, I will begin with the implementation proposal, because my group also realizes that consultation and interrogation assistance will be provided. The Directive lays down minimum rules on this right and Member States should ensure that suspects have a general right of access to counsel in criminal proceedings. But as I said, my group believes that it is up to the national legislator to lay down legal rules. We are talking about our own criminal law and our own criminal procedural law, and the European Commission must remain outside. Anyway, it's not being used enough; I just said it. On the issue of the Salduz case-law, I would like to make one more comment. My group does not think it is necessary that every adult suspect should always be able to consult a lawyer before the police can get to work at all. However, fair is fair: in 2011 there was also a draft legislative proposal, so a start has been made on national legislation. What my group welcomes is the fact that the current draft implementing legislation contains a number of practical measures so that the police hearing is not frustrated by too much diligence on the part of legal aid, i.e. the legal profession. Because I also looked at the protocol of the Dutch Order of Lawyers. It simply contains texts such as 'active participation in the hearing', 'an active participation', 'consisted to intervene in cases where there is a threat of breach of the prohibition of pressure','stopped to interrupt the hearing whenever it is necessary in the opinion of the lawyer' and 'held to ask questions whenever the lawyer considers it necessary in the interests of his client'. So, as far as my group is concerned, that is very broad and, frankly, too broad. After this little trip, which I took in the wake of the interrupting debate we have just heard, I will come back to the consultation assistance. In principle, my group agrees with this and, of course, with the right to interrogation. As I have just said, what the counsellor is allowed to do in the police interview is important to my group, because the questioning should not lose its value as a means of proof and the police should not be unduly hindered at this stage in their powers in this matter. Fortunately, the government is so wise to define the role of the counsellor during the interrogation, as follows. The counsellor may, as a general rule, only make observations or ask questions before and after the hearing. The interrogation officer is in charge of the interrogation. That was the case, that is the case, and that is the case under the bill. My group agrees with that. We have also heard the criticism of the bill from the lawyer's side. That criticism is twofold. This concerns the role of the lawyer during the interview and the reimbursement for the assistance. To the role of the lawyer during the interrogation, I've already made a trip. I have already said: no active participation; making comments in advance and afterwards is enough for my group. Therefore, as far as my group is concerned, what is stated in the proposed Article 28d is reasonable. The impact will be reflected in a General Administrative Measure, which is annexed to the legislative proposal. My group can agree to that. However, we have doubts about limiting the role of the counsellor in an interrogation by the National Criminal Court and the FIOD. Why? First of all, these are generally heavier things. Secondly, and I think that is most important, it is in those interviews already existing practice that a lawyer participates actively in the interrogation. This is to the full satisfaction of all parties. As far as my group is concerned, this practice is not being reversed for that reason alone. Can the Minister confirm that? Now I come to the second point of criticism of the lawyer, namely the remuneration for consultation and interrogation assistance. The ruling of the Supreme Court of 2015 cited above states: The Supreme Court assumes that a suspected person is entitled to the assistance of a counsellor during his interview by the police, except in the case of urgent reasons for restricting that right. Furthermore, it should be noted that the right to such assistance relates not only to the first interview but also to the subsequent interviews. In the same judgment, the Supreme Court does say that there is a distinction between the consequences of not consulting a counsellor prior to the first police hearing and the counsellor's assistance during various interrogations. Different legal effects are linked to this. My question to the Minister is therefore: is the remuneration granted by the Minister on a case-by-case basis, the total legal aid granted or the consultation assistance plus the interrogation assistance, no matter how often the interview assistance will take place? That is not clear from the bill. In the following letter of 1 March this year, the Minister talks about interrogation assistance during the picket phase. That is from the moment of arrest to the moment when the suspect is released or when an order is given against the suspect. Then I could ask again whether the consultation assistance is outside. In any case, the number of interviews that may or must take place during that period is not clear and can change. The fee is very thin. Does the Minister agree with my group? If it were a compensation for the first police questioning, the reimbursement of a total of €177,36 would in principle not be unreasonable. Lawyers are resourceful and there is something to be thought of to adapt the current picket scheme with some extra organization to the proposed scheme. As a rule, not the most expensive lawyers are sent in terms of hourly rates, but an attorney-trainee who can make an excellent deal with the first consultation and the first interview assistance. You can also think of a structural presence at the police station of lawyers who are on picket duty on the day in question. It saves travel time and costs. In his letter of 1 March, which I mentioned earlier, the Minister indicated that he would first monitor and then be able to make responsible statements on what is a reasonable remuneration. That monitor will soon have to provide insight into the real time spent attending interviews by lawyers. On this basis, it will be examined whether the point fee needs to be adjusted. The first results are expected at the end of May. It is not yet the end of May, but perhaps the Minister can lift a hint of the veil on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u24	I'm curious about this. I, too, have a number of questions about first-line interrogation assistance. That makes sense, because that is in the two laws before us. I was also looking for the role of the lawyer. I hear Mrs. Helder talking about a lawyer intern. It may not be possible now, but we could explore to what extent interrogation assistance can be provided by others than specifically a lawyer, for example by a paralegal lawyer known in the legal profession or by an HBO lawyer. It's got to be someone who knows about this, too, but it doesn't necessarily have to be a lawyer. This is in line with the suspect and the rights of the suspect, but it may also be cost-effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u25	I can't imagine much assistance from a paralegal. It seems to me that this really has to be done by a lawyer. We should not trivialize it so that almost everyone can. As far as my group is concerned, it must be a lawyer. If you don't, you're gonna be in danger of getting over the interrogation. Then we're all in the monkey's lap, at least we're not, but the police are, 'cause that's when the interrogation has to be about. That takes time and money, and you're lagging behind. If Mr Van Oosten works this out, I am always prepared to look into it. It sounds nice, but it doesn't seem efficient to me, so I say in advance. The financial resources are on the tight side. That's actually a nice little bridge to my next topic. My group also considers another point important, namely that this requires capacity from the national police. Moreover, the organization, the police, also has costs. My predecessor has already said it, and we have said it many times in this House: the police are no longer able to carry out all their tasks, let alone if they still have to do so. To my group's questions, the Minister replied that it would cost about 12 million a year. This amount is financed from the EUR 105 million that the cabinet has reserved for the national police, but that amount is not reserved for consultation and interrogation assistance. The coalition agreement says literally: "The national police will receive an additional EUR 105 million per year in structural terms. This makes more blue on the street and more capacity for detection possible." If the EUR 105 million earmarked for strengthening the criminal justice chain in the framework of the so-called VPS programme for strengthening criminal justice chain performance are meant, you always want us to explain abbreviations, my group does not agree, because that amount is not intended for costs that entail new tasks. It is therefore a good thing for my group if the Minister finds cover for the 12 million somewhere else. So I'm gonna ask the Minister if he's gonna make extra money available for this. I'd like a response. The national police have also indicated that the legislative proposal has a major impact on its work processes. I refer to the accumulation of new legislation relating to the first hours of the investigation after arrest. According to the police, these consequences and the costs associated with this bill will have negative consequences for police results in the field of detection. To what extent this will be, it is not foreseeable at the moment. On this question, the Minister wrote in his letter of 11 February this year: "The new impact analyses attached to this letter are based on a bandwidth based on an increase of 216 FTEs in the low variant to police deployment, an increase of 318 FTEs in the middle variant and an increase of 512 FTEs in the high variant." As with all impact analyses, assumptions and estimates are used, which is common in calculating the impact of future legislation. In the coming period, it will be necessary to identify the variables that will emerge from the impact analysis calculation models and thus what increase will actually occur. And then you get it again: "Through reprioritisation with the police, it will be possible for the legislative proposals to be implemented." My group is deeply concerned about this reprioritisation and the fact that it is not clear how many FTEs that are now going to cost. My group is deeply concerned about the fact that there are considerable differences in size in....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... How's the minister gonna take it away? Is he prepared to monitor this development? My group is never in favour of it, but sometimes it is not possible otherwise so that action can be taken in good time if necessary? Is the Minister not afraid that all this will be at the expense of the strength of the police hearing as a means of proof at a later stage? I'd like a response to that point. This is the end of my group's contribution to the Bill No. 34157. I now come to the other legislative proposal, the supplementary legislative proposal concerning the provision on the defendant, the counsellor and some coercive measures. The direct cause of this legislative proposal is the directive that has just been discussed. This Bill No. 34159 updates the provisions on the counsellor of the Code of Criminal Procedure due to a lawyer's claim for assistance at an earlier time in the preliminary investigation than is currently the case. Not only are subjects regulated as a result of the counsellor in the police interview, but also a number of topics that also meet bottlenecks in practice. I'll give you three. In this bill, the Deputy Prosecutor is also given the power to order arrests out of the blue. The duration of the cessation of investigation of a suspect for offences for which no pre-trial detention is permitted shall be set at a maximum of six hours with a possibility of renewal for identification by six hours. If it is a criminal offence for which provisional detention is permitted, the time limit for detention shall not exceed nine hours. The third point is the inclusion of a more realistic representation in the minutes of the statement derived by the suspect by a better representation of the questioning and answering game which constitutes the essence of each questioning. The Minister gave clear answers to the questions raised by my group in the report. I can therefore state that my group agrees with the legislative proposal No. 34159. The powers of the Deputy Prosecutor are also endorsed by the police and significantly reduce the administrative burden. We are in favour of this. In practice, a prosecutor is already known in the decision for a planned arrest out of the blue, because the investigation takes place under his authority. My group also agrees with the extension of the period for the cessation of research. A realistic presentation of the report, of the questioning, is also of great importance to my group, because the report is a starting document. It often also indicates the direction of the search. Before I finish, I see an interruption coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u26	And so am I. I call Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mrs. Helder says that the district attorney is in charge of the investigation, so he's aware of arrests off the record. I don't understand. In what way is the district attorney aware? And if he's aware of it, he might as well give permission right away. I am therefore missing the consistency of Mrs Helder's reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u28	I didn't say it like that. I didn't say, "So he's up to speed." I have said that it is known as a rule, because as a rule there are consultations in practice. I didn't say he was aware. It was a bit of a trick, so I understand that Mr Recourt has heard that, but I did not say it that way and I did not mean it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u29	But if the reduction of administrative burdens is the reason why the PVV thinks this is a good idea, then you might ask yourself what the administrative burden is if the prosecutor is generally known. Because if you know someone in there, you can ask him for permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u30	My group has believed that what I have heard about it in practice is laid down in this legislative proposal. I have not put so many more critical questions to that effect, and it is enough to say that the administrative burden is reduced, that the public prosecutor is generally known and that the number of documents sent over and over again is reduced. I come to a conclusion and a summary; I see that fortunately I have a lot of time left. In principle, my group agrees with the legislative proposal on consultation assistance and interrogation assistance, but, to be sure, I await the Minister's answers to the questions I have asked. As I said, the other legislative proposal can count on the agreement of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna surprise the minister; I hope he hears it. My group is in principle in favour of these two legislative proposals. In a few parts, she's still critical. I will deal with these two legislative proposals, which I cut short to '57' and '59'. Mrs Helder has just explained very well why we are dealing with two legislative proposals, which has a technical reason, but I will just mention them in one breath. These proposals concern the strengthening of legal protection in the Netherlands. The law now states that a suspect has the right to an attorney in the police interrogation. The average viewer of American television series will look familiar and may be surprised that this is still not regulated in the Netherlands, not in the law, at least. With these proposals, the Minister is implementing a European directive. That is also high time, because many European Member States have already preceded us. In the Salduz case, the Strasbourg Court also pointed out the need for interrogation assistance eight years ago. Strengthening legal protection is not an unnecessary luxury following the many proposals made by this cabinet which, on the contrary, restrict access to justice and threaten to restrict legal protection. Think of the proposals which, after a lot of pressure, have been withdrawn or adapted for cuts in justice, cuts in the legal aid that has been financed and increases in registry fees. On the other hand, the proposals before us fit into an adult rule of law. They contribute to reducing the inequality between the State and the defendant in power, means and powers in criminal proceedings. If a counselor is present at the police hearing at the police station, this will help the defendant in the first crucial stage of the criminal proceedings in the exercise of his rights. Mr Helder mentioned the importance of the first questioning. For D66 it is therefore a question of whether the Minister is properly implementing the Salduz case-law and the European directive. Is he making enough room for the police and counsel to actually provide the defendant with legal protection? I will look at the two proposals in that light and come close to the proposals, following the order of the criminal proceedings. The criminal trial begins with the arrest. The bill has already been heard this evening and introduces a power for an assistant prosecutor to order the arrest out of the blue. I don't read in the bill why this would be necessary. It's still the district attorney in charge of the police investigation, isn't it? This has just been mentioned in the little debate on the interruption. That prosecutor is also at some distance from that investigation and can thus objectively assess whether an arrest is justified at this stage of the investigation. A deputy officer can take that distance much less well, because it's often about his own investigation. There is also usually no need for an emergency in the event of an extra-judicial arrest. So there's plenty of time for proper consultation between the detectives involved and the district attorney. If there is a hurry, there are, of course, sufficient modern means of communication, such as the mobile phone, to make and consult quickly and directly. Together with College Van Nispen, I have the amendment to item No. 8 (34159) to delete this power. If you are then arrested, it is important that you are informed about your rights. A suspect who is held up for questioning will have to be informed. That will usually be done by the investigating officer, the agent holding the person. I'm getting signals from practice that this isn't always going well. In its response to the legislative proposals, the police indicated that these proposals had a major impact on its work processes, on the way in which it operates. This means that the Minister will have to make a soft landing. Agents will need to be adequately trained to properly inform suspects about their rights. How's the Minister gonna take care of that? It may also be that, if you know what your rights are, you want to renounce them. A suspect could do that. Some suspects don't want a lawyer and give up. That is a thorny point when it comes to vulnerable suspects who are unable to see the consequences of their decision at the time. According to the bill, they cannot waive their rights. Judgement of a suspect's vulnerability lies with the Deputy District Attorney. However, the law does not define what is a vulnerable suspect. Then who is it about? Then who's vulnerable? In the explanatory statement, the Minister says something about this. He talks about mentally disturbed, mentally restricted and youthful. But, I ask the Minister, is anyone under the influence of drink or drugs able to waive the right to assistance? Can he or she see the consequences of that far-reaching decision at that time? Therefore, D66 wants to include a definition of "vulnerable suspect" and the right to protection against surrender. We have the amendment in respect of item No. 10 (34157) submitted. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the amendment does not make it possible to say that the list in the amendment is not exhaustive. The amendment defines a vulnerable suspect as someone who is unable to oversee the consequences of the decision at that time. You can at least think of young people, intellectually limited people or people who are under the influence. Let me give you the example of someone who has five instead of three pills at a festival, who is arrested for that and who is tempted to pay a penalty decision immediately and then chill through. Many suspects are under the influence at that time and do not know that they will also receive a criminal record if they pay the criminal order immediately. So they will soon say yes, without overlooking the consequences. So they too are vulnerable and need counsel to point out those consequences. I come to a point raised by other speakers, namely the capacity of the police and the financial consequences for the police. It has already been said here that at least 200 fte are needed for both legislative proposals. He wants to solve that with internal reprioritisation. That is a wonderful magic formula, but my question is very simple and brief: how is the Minister going to do that? Can the Minister justify exactly what that reprioritisation means? In recent years, this minister and his predecessor have identified just about everything as a priority. On top of that, new challenges have emerged for the police in the form of counter-terrorism and the flow of refugees. You can't prioritize infinitely. At some point it's choosing or sharing. What's the police gonna do? I'm gonna come up with a consult. Someone's been apprehended, hasn't waived his right to counsel, and that counselor has arrived. He can talk to the client for half an hour. In most garden-and-kitchen shops that will be enough. That's what the practice shows. But sometimes it's different for complicated cases. Half an hour would be too short. In addition, the counsel should review the documents briefly and advise the client. In addition, confidence must be gained. In complicated cases, that could be half an hour too short. That is why, together with Mr Van Nispen, I have tabled an amendment to extend the consultation period to an hour, if necessary, at the request of the suspect or his counselor. This can only be done if the importance of the investigation does not oppose it. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to this. I come to my fifth point: the nature of the consultation. It is very important that the consultation is confidential. This confidentiality remains a difficult issue. In fact, sometimes unintentional conversations are recorded in the spaces where those conversations between lawyer and client are held at the police station. It could be in prisons. On a regular basis, confidentiality was violated there, because it was not technically properly regulated. That's affecting legal protection in the heart. The defendant should be able to rely at any time on his ability to speak freely with his counsel. My group therefore asked in the written preparation for dealing with this confidential consultation between counsel and suspect in areas where equipment is available for video and audio recordings. The Minister replied that the deliberate recording of confidential conversations should not be allowed. If it happens unintentionally, that communication must be destroyed and the information that follows from it should not be used in criminal matters for the evidence. I'm glad, but it leaves me with two questions. When is a recording actually destroyed after finding that a call was accidentally recorded? How long will that take? And how is it arranged that police officers do not take note of the contents of such an accidental recorded conversation? What is once read or heard remains in the head. That can significantly affect the interrogation and the course of events. I come to the availability of good lawyers. What good is the right to an attorney if you can't exercise that right because you don't have the money for it? Properly funded legal aid is therefore a necessary condition for the effective use of the rights granted in these legislative proposals. It's no secret in this house: the funded legal aid is under a lot of pressure. According to lawyers, the picket fee fixed by the Minister is not even cost-effective. As long as there is no reasonable remuneration, there is a risk that there will soon be insufficient lawyers available to do picketing services at the police station and in prisons. The Minister has carefully kept this whole issue of funded legal aid outside these legislative proposals, but I am curious how he is going to avoid draining from picket services and that there are not enough good lawyers available? I would also like to hear from the Minister whether he wants the compensation to be a real reflection of the time actually spent by the lawyers. Finally, I'll come to the recording of the interrogation. For a fair hearing it is necessary that what is said in the interview is presented honestly and not suggestively. For this purpose, the minutes shall be made available. The legislative proposals strengthen the way in which the interview is to be conducted. All of D66's support for this and also understanding the fact that there are currently no means to include all these questions. But for one category of questioning, I wonder whether we should not do so. Should we not systematically include cases where interrogation without counsel is initiated because of an urgent need to avoid serious negative consequences for the life, freedom or physical integrity of a potential victim? These are very serious cases, for example a child whose life is at stake and a suspect who may be able to say something about them. In such a case, it may be possible to start questioning suspects without waiting for counsel. But then I would strongly urge you to record such an interview in a video or audio recording, because then you can always find out exactly what was said, what exactly the suspect explained, and you can also determine whether or not unauthorized pressure has been exerted. That seems to me to be in the interest not only of the suspect, but also of the police themselves. I would like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the strengthening of the legal protection offered by these proposals. Despite this positive attitude, there are a number of points on which I think the Minister still needs to get to work. Finally, I should like to touch briefly on this point. This concerns the protection of vulnerable suspects against waiver of rights. This is a question of extending the half-hour consultation period, where necessary. It's about removing the A.D.A.'s power to order arrest out of the blue. This is also about timely destruction of unintended recordings of confidential conversations and sufficient police capacity. Finally, it concerns the availability of sufficiently good picket lawyers. For legal protection in a rule of law must not only be done on paper, not only in words, but above all in action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u32	I saw Mr Van Nispen make a move towards the interrupting microphone, but that movement was broken down. I can therefore now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg, who speaks on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr. Chairman. Anyone who has seen the popular Netflix documentary Making a Murderer can only conclude with the legal practice and the cabinet that legal aid is essential, especially when it comes to the suspicion of very serious crimes and precisely when the pressure to clarify a crime is very great. That applies to all suspects, but especially to vulnerable suspects, intellectually limited and juveniles. Having said that, we now have two proposals before us which concern us on a number of points. Our first concern is funding. It is no different from the fact that another election promise is being broken here. More blue on the street and 105 million a year: that promise is now being fulfilled for a substantial part by setting up interview rooms for suspects. That's a choice of this cabinet. Our second concern stems from something that the police and the judiciary have indicated, namely that the measures proposed further put the effectiveness, duration and administrative effort of detecting and prosecuting criminal offences under pressure. In the latter case, also include the Dutch level of protection. The Dutch level of protection of suspects is really ahead of that of other European countries, and then the question arises as to what these relatively far-reaching legal protection and supplemental measures serve. After all, the Salduz judgment is only one way in which the case law in the Netherlands can ultimately be regulated by law. It is possible to discuss this and it has also been discussed in recent years. I think we will come to the conclusion that at least the Minister has done wisely not to accept every wish and not every enlargement that has been proposed. The questioning was somewhat framed by the Minister in this proposal and in his decision to ensure that the only lawyer who might wish to do so could not interfere with or otherwise dominate the hearing. That is right, because that was not the intention of the case-law either. Mr Van Nispen has also paid attention to this: there is something remarkable going on, namely that the legislative power, we, and the judiciary are bowing to this at the same time. That's unprecedented. The questions referred to the Supreme Court were referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling as to whether the rules laid down by the Public Prosecutor's Office for the purpose of bringing the hearing were in fact in line with the standard laid down by the Supreme Court in its judgment. At the same time, we are debating this today. In a letter, the Minister indicated that this coincidence is not a problem. The question to the Supreme Court is not aimed at implementing the directive, but rather at explaining the judgment of the Supreme Court of December 2015. That may be the case in theory, but in practice, of course, it comes down to the same thing. How does the Minister look at that now? Isn't the way in which the law is given room to the law in the police hearing, ultimately the same question as the Supreme Court is now considering? I understand that the State has not made an appeal in vain, I must say that it is against these questions. That's kind of special, actually. Let me say that the way in which this is now being worked out in the documents and also the way in which the Public Prosecutor's Office has expressed itself in a letter has approached the positive side of the CDA. There are still a number of unanswered questions and one important question I have already mentioned is the impact of the legislative proposal on the measures proposed in terms of effectiveness, duration and administrative effort for detection and prosecution. Police and the judiciary have expressed serious concerns about this and I think that we should take this into account in the legal process. The question is essentially whether the government may have implemented the underlying directive too generously. Let me put that into practice. In the current investigative practice, suspects frequently use their right to remain silent, regularly advised by their counsel. "Keep your mouth shut, you won't be part of the evidence collection" is the motto. That's perfectly understandable. I haven't worked in law for long, but I do know this is the main line. I got him, I used him, and so did all my colleagues. Given the fundamental legal status of the suspect, that is of course also important, because the defendant should never be forced to cooperate in his own conviction. The right to remain silent is part of that. If the police don't know anything yet, let's see what the police come up with so that a suspect can respond. We also know that judicial errors have occurred in the Netherlands. They're showing the dramatic side of suspects who proved wrong, possibly under pressure from the police. However, making silence easier and easier cannot be the intention either. We all know that suspects sometimes "break" when confronted with the suffering they have caused. Making someone see what he or she has done may have a function in an interrogation, also in order to clarify. Criminal law also has a recovery function, which seems to be under-exposed in this proposal. Surely it is not possible for a suspect to realize that it might be better to confess, but that he renounces it by his lawyer's primitive eyes or that he is even hindered by the way in which the lawyer fills in his presence. How does the government see this? How does the government intend to prevent the counsel from becoming a player in the truth finding in addition to his role as a watchdog who, rightly, pays attention to the interests of the suspect? The Minister seems to be aware of this, but he also takes it a bit away, because he says: there is always the possibility of forensic research as additional evidence. Let us have just received a good report last week on how this is going to be done! I would therefore advise the Minister not to put all his eggs in that basket. We are going to talk about this report in detail, but I think we have to agree that it can be risky if, on the one hand, a lawyer can have the room to interrupt an interrogation and thus stand in the way of evidence, and then we have to go on the other side on the police force, which is certainly not up to it at the moment. All this is happening to me every time I confront this minister in a country where the level of clarification is lower than anywhere else around us. We have an appalling degree of clarity. Let us not have any negative influence on that. Let me then shed some light on a few points where it seems that the European directive has been implemented rather generously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u34	I have the impression that Mr Recourt wanted to interrupt on the previous point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u35	That's right. I referred to the reference to abroad. The majority of foreign lawyers are already present in the police interview, and yet these countries have higher levels of detection. Meanwhile, the CDA says: let's be careful that the lawyer doesn't interfere too much with the interrogation, so that a suspect who wants to confess doesn't do so, on the advice of his counsel. Of course, that's a little crazy. The CDA says: let us do a little less legal aid, because we are also looking abroad. But abroad has just proved that with the lawyer involved, the detection rate can be much higher. So is the problem not on a completely different issue, not with a lawyer in the interrogation, but just with the police, the prosecution, the investigation, which is not working properly in the Netherlands? It is only trusted that the defendant will confess at the police hearing, instead of giving more attention to evidence collection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u36	Yes, absolutely, but as I said, we are still talking about the way detectives are doing their job in the Netherlands at the moment. There is simply no competence, there is no investment in training, there is no good leadership and no good culture and there are no functional means. That is already a very important point, which makes us quite inadequate in the Netherlands in terms of the level of clarification. I didn't say that I wouldn't want a lawyer to do anything. Mr Recourt has merely heard me say that I am concerned about the space that could sometimes be given, so that a lawyer can also stand in the way of good evidence. I want to know from the Minister how he's going to make sure that doesn't happen. Fortunately, there are a number of countries around us where that has not happened. I do not know how that is prevented in practice in the interrogation rooms. Perhaps the Minister knows that. I do know that the rules are sometimes somewhat limited, and woe to you if you go over them; that is also known. But I would like to hear the Minister say exactly how that is going, because we can then learn something from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u37	In view of the fact that, at least in terms of the degree of clarification abroad, is it not simply cold feet to find the solution in the police hearing and to curb the lawyer? Can we not simply note that we really need to look together at how we can improve the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u38	Yeah, that'd be cold feet, and I don't have one. So that's not what this is about. We have to look for the problem with the clarification rate on a very different side, but I do not want it to go any further backwards than is already the case in the Netherlands. We cannot afford to do that in our country, with a rate of clarification that is really scandalous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mr. Recourt? No? Then I give the floor to Mr Van Oosten of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u40	I naturally share Mrs Van Toorenburg's ambition with regard to clarification rates. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter on my initiative. However, I wanted to take back on that silent suspect, because there is part of Mrs Van Toorenburg's fear. I'm just as good with that. That's why I'm just asking her the question. Mrs Van Toorenburg, or her colleague Mr Oskam, put that question in writing. In response, we all read that the expectation based on the relevant report is that the lawyer will start repositioning and professionalizing on that point. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg feel that way? Or did she look at that again and say: I do not consider that to be the case? I'd like to hear her reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u41	Two comments. Mr Van Oosten always knows how to do it very charmingly. He says that we are also concerned about the level of clarification, which is why we have tabled a motion on it. It's like we're always changing the world with motions. Then we're confronted with a police report that shows that it's bar and angry. So it is very good that Mr Van Oosten agrees with us, but we have not changed the world in this respect. That on the one hand. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u42	I'm gonna suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u43	The minister had to go away for a while. It happens. Ms Van Toorenburg continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u44	I was afraid the minister would have run away mad. I'm glad you didn't. I was in the process of answering Mr Van Oosten's question. He asked me if I don't have faith that the lawyer himself is looking at it. Yes, and I must honestly say that the articles sent to me by the lawyer in recent weeks have given me more insight into how things are going than what I heard from the minister. That is why I am asking the Minister my question here for the sake of legislative consultation. I understand that a special platform has been set up in which everything is shared to see if it goes as it pleases from all sides. But what are the consequences if they are not? When will the Minister be bringing that to the Chamber? I think it is important that we really keep our finger on the pulse. I think it's okay if we give room in it, but we have to be careful how that goes. Mr. Chairman. As I said, it seems that on a number of points the European directive has been rather generously implemented. It allows to be less generous with the free call of a lawyer after arrest than is the case under current law. We read that on page 3 of the bill, at number 57. The question is why the Minister did not use it. Is there any other way to fill that out? We also know that the majority of the arrested young suspects are about 16, 17 years old. According to the directive, there is nothing to prevent suspected 16 and 17-year-olds from giving up consultation assistance in very light criminal cases. On page 5 of bill 34157 we read something about that. The question is why the Minister does not use this in matters of a really light nature where the facts seem to speak for themselves. Could there not be some obstacle here in the interference of the legal profession, especially with regard to the lick-on-piece policy, but also in view of the fact that juvenile criminal law also has an educational effect? I may be speaking a bit now as a former director of a juvenile prison, a completely different profession. The educational element is immediately gone if you put an extra check on it. Well, then that's some kind of undermining. Sometimes it happens on purpose and sometimes the police do it: if someone has done something that isn't allowed, when it comes to a young person, you put a police officer in front of it with a heavy voice, who speaks to this young person. If there's a lawyer wrong who's gonna play the undermining game right away, we've got nothing at all. Eventually, the younger one may have rolled into ruins, while he could have been a bit re-directed by a moaning cop when he committed his first, minor offense. So I'm wondering if it's not going the wrong way eventually if we're gonna put things together right away with a lawyer. Shouldn't we be a little cautious about how we deal with juvenile justice in the case of a young person, preferably a first offender, who is suspected of a minor offence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u45	We've known the stand for a long time as well as a cop who speaks to someone admonishingly. But that's not an interrogation. So why should the directive apply to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u46	That may be an interrogation, but in the end it will not lead to a real criminal case being brought to justice through the prosecutor. It can serve a purpose to make a decent theatre, because it allows you to make a younger person think: ai, this is the way I shouldn't go. If we want to tackle a young person by definition at his first crime, for example the theft of a roll of licorice, and we want to rig the system for that, you have to get a lawyer in this system now, and I don't know if that serves the purpose. That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u47	It's something else that matters to me. If you want to give a stand, it's not about evidence gathering. You can do that, and you don't need a lawyer to do that. But if you have stolen that roll of licorice, there is an interrogation and so is the directive. Does the latter correspond to the way Mrs Van Toorenburg sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u48	Yes, because I think it could be very good for a younger person to indicate what he's done. I think the Minister knows all about it. It's very good to sometimes get the fire laid after the shins and to confess what you've done. If that hadn't happened in his youth, he wouldn't be sitting here with a gorgeous orange tie in box K. So maybe it serves a purpose when you're recalled for what you've done. I understand, by the way, that this is public information. I come to another point, which may be a little weird: a lawyer's cell phone during the interrogation. As a rule, that's not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u49	You're going over the time you've given up. You can do that, but I'd like to point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u50	Then I'm gonna make sure I don't get you into any more trouble by making it a little faster. The first directive said that a lawyer shouldn't bring a phone. Then it turns out everyone can take their phones and that's kind of weird to me. If you have to pay your undivided attention to your client, it is of course a bit crazy to have your phone with you in that half hour if necessary, also considering the possible negative aspects. It can be disruptive, for example by allowing yourself to make a phone call and it will be absolutely used. In addition, they can also be interviewed, so why are we so generous in dealing with this? I'm not allowed to do that in prison, and there's no big deal there either. I come to my final point: the funding. That is an important point for us, and we have discussed it before. Other parties have already said it today: the funding is simply from the national police. That's where the money comes from. That's a direct breach of the promises that have been made. I really think this is unacceptable. I want to know from the Minister how he's gonna handle this. He can't fill in these legislative proposals by just taking the money away from the police. What tasks will no longer be carried out? Mrs. Swinkels asked about that, too. There was talk of further prioritisation. But how? The Minister can't even indicate how much FTE this law will ultimately cost. The Minister said some very strange things about that too. He said, for example, that we need to make sure that this is done properly, because it is ultimately in the interests of the blue on the street, and that the budget of the national police is for that. I don't understand. It can't be. I would also like to receive the current estimate of how many FTEs this will cost. In addition, I would like to know what will actually be the cost savings for the police if we give the auxiliary officer the power to remain independent. The Minister pretends that it is panacea, but that then translates into about seven fte and that is a bit different from all the hours I have just mentioned. I really think it is important that we review the national police budget and that this is not paid out here. I can't be and I can't be. We want a different proposal for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mrs Van Toorenburg asked very legitimate questions about the budget of the national police. Is she also critical of the funding of the lawyer, the picket fee? How does it look at the fact that the actual use of time is only now being looked at? Isn't it true that the data on the duration of an interrogation should be available long ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u52	In the end, a court ruling has been reached on the picket fee and it has been established that it is ultimately not unreasonable. I think the amount's kind of low. I agree with Mr Van Nispen. However, I do not see it either if we make it many times higher. Mrs Swinkels has raised valid questions about this. When, for example, can you add things together? That's what I want to know. I also find reality to be a very difficult point. I have not dealt with that here, but there are justified questions about that. On the other hand, there is also an amendment on the recovery of money when a person is convicted. I agree with the questions put by Mr Van Nispen, who is concerned about what will happen if you bring it back. He thinks that the middlemen will eventually decide not to call a lawyer because, although they will get little, they will have a serious problem themselves if they have to pay for it themselves. The rich villains and the guys who don't have anything, they walk away laughing. I'm worried about that, too. That is why I do not think I could support the VVD's amendment on this. However, I consider Mr Van Nispen's questions of principle on this subject, linked to the amount of the lawyer's money, to be very relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u53	That's reassuring. I believe that the ruling of the President of the Court of First Instance is a little more nuanced than Mrs Van Toorenburg is saying, but let us not discuss it. In my view, the judge has said that there must be reasonable consequences for the results of the current investigation. If that study shows that the remuneration is indeed unreasonable and that the time spent on interviews is far greater than the one and a half point that is currently before us, does Mrs Van Toorenburg therefore believe that the compensation should be increased and that there should be reasonable consequences for the results of the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u54	If the research results are there and Mr Van Nispen asks for a debate, I will support him. Then we are going to have this debate with this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mr. Chairman. The lawyer's presence at the police interrogation is coming up. That is good, but even if it was not good, we have Europe for that. It's gonna happen whether we want it or not. So the question is a little bit of how we organize it. Did we do that right? In this context, I would like to address a number of points. I will also skip a number of points because my colleagues, especially those from D66 and the SP, have asked rather intrusive questions that were also on my list. First of all, I would like to make a general comment on criminal law itself. Criminal law is a system in which the main focus is on legal protection. The power the government has vis-à-vis a suspect must somehow be limited, limited and controlled. There's a nice build-up in there. The police have less powers than the auxiliary officer, the auxiliary officer has less powers than the officer and the officer has less powers than the judge. In the event of a more profound breach, the test is more intrusive and, above all, more remote. You shouldn't have an interest in judgment. That is why it is wise that the police do not judge for themselves whether they have done their job properly. Now, if it doesn't work in practice, it's perfectly possible to infringe it, but I don't see it in the off-duty arrest yet. As far as I am concerned, it is an infringement of the beautiful remote test system, which is becoming more and more intrusive and distant. Why? In any case, there is no rush, because this is an out-of-the-box arrest. There will certainly be a certain administrative burden, but as Mrs Helder said, the prosecutor is already the leader of the investigation. I can assume that the police are in regular contact with the district attorney about his intentions, his wishes and the way in which the evidence can be obtained. In fact, it can be counterproductive and cost-enhancing if you put someone in the police cell for a while, while you can invite him with a note to come and talk. Surprisingly, quite a lot of suspects just come after such an invitation. So I have some doubts about the government's measure. That will determine my attitude towards the amendment which is seeking to destroy it again. The next point is also a bit general. I have the impression that there is a great deal of fear in the police and the judiciary that much less cases will be resolved, within the context that there are indeed few cases to be resolved. A lot of suspects are confessing right now during police interrogation. I have the impression that this has made our system a bit easy and that the police and the Public Prosecutor are thinking: bringing in that trade, hearing it heavily, and then we're done. Isn't it a good development when the police and the justice department are more committed to obtaining evidence in advance, so that you have your case wrapped up or whatever, and at that point you're not going to talk to the suspect? Isn't that development necessary? Hasn't this development already manifested itself at the Tax Office, namely at the FIOD? We always hear and read that the lawyer who is present is fine. What rules actually apply to that lawyer and how is it that all parties are satisfied? Don't we just have to deal with cold feet for the lawyer's presence in the police hearing that has now entered into force? Colleagues have already said it and I also regularly look at CSI Miami. It's the most normal thing in the world, but those men and women had a lot of their evidence inside before they started talking to that suspect. It is almost unnecessary to say in this context that the report is very worrying when it comes to the quality of the police. This quality must be increased urgently and with urgency, also in the light of this bill. The second point is that the Code of Criminal Procedure is being extensively developed in the coming years. The emphasis in the criminal investigation will be on the initial phase, with even more importance attached to that trial with the police, the police and the judge-supervisor. If you don't have your business in order in your defense, you're too late. Therefore, let us not see the lawyer in the police hearing isolated from these two legislative proposals, but place them in a broader context. In doing so, we can also involve the ZSM decision, whereby the prosecutor no longer judges the judge, but imposes the penalty. Then too, it is important that the lawyer is present in the preliminary stage to monitor the interest of the suspect. It is precisely on this point that the Wolfsen Committee has not said anything, if I have read the report correctly; we are going to debate it in a while. Perhaps it is an idea to have that looked at, by that committee or by someone else. How can we enshrine the lawyers at the beginning of the trial in such a way that this fits in with the development under the Code of Criminal Procedure? I would also like to say that we must, of course, join the digital revolution. We're digitizing on all sides, so why not record interrogations? I understand that this is now happening in a limited way. When and when not, one of my questions is and especially when we're just going to record everything. That too is, in a sense, an outdated discussion. My question is more as to when we're just recording everything. At the moment of discussion, you look at the recording and you can see what actually happened. This also applies to plenary sessions and so on, but that is not the issue at present. Telehoren is another possibility. The VVD colleague has made a nice amendment, which I would like to join and which we have tabled together, to at least lay down that possibility in the law. That could be telehearing at the consultation. However, I can imagine that in the future, when there is no longer a loss of transmission in telehearing and it is guaranteed that you can speak with the lawyer in confidence, it is a nice way to bridge distances and work efficiently without the risks involved. There are, of course, risks of telehearing. I can see that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u56	Is it also the intention of the amendment to encourage the withdrawal of the right to the assistance of a lawyer by means of telehearsals in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u57	The amendment does not mean that. I have heard very well that Mr Van Nispen said in his first term that you should not be asked by the police about the surrender but by a lawyer. Of course telehears can help with that. After all, it is difficult to have a lawyer present at all the police stations where interrogations are made. If you have a picket service somewhere in the Netherlands and a lawyer can check if someone actually consciously chooses to say that he doesn't need a lawyer, that can be an improvement. That is my response to Mr Van Nispen's first term. As proposers, we did not intend to do so. We have sought to lay it down in the law for the future. You can achieve a lot of profit by telehearing on the points mentioned by Mr Van Nispen, but also on other points. I myself have experience with telehears in the Antilles. That saves a lot of air travel and a lot of money for the state. This also applies within the scale of the Netherlands, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u58	I get that. That's good, too. I would like to hear Mr Recourt's opinion. In giving up a lawyer, telehearing would be an option, even if the amendment is not aimed at doing so. Should it be possible to waive the right to assistance before an investigative officer? Or is it also Mr Recourt's preference that in the future he can give up only in front of a lawyer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u59	I'm gonna have to be a little careful here. In any case, it is my preference that it is guaranteed that giving up is an informed choice. I can imagine you'd say that to the police, but you've already consulted a lawyer before. That guarantee certainly has my preference. I haven't quite figured out how to do that yet. I would then like to come to the next point, which I would otherwise raise later. I myself had a motion in preparation to at least ensure that the group that cannot give up what is wider than just minors. By the way, I understand from the documents that that was already the intention, but you can only have it clearly. In that sense, I also await the Minister's reply on this point. Have I read correctly that this applies not only to the younger group of minors, but also to people with very low IQs, for example? The next point concerns the Significant reports. I would like a response from the Minister. Significant has calculated three scenarios. Depending on the number of interrogations and interrogation assistance, at least 100 fte will have to join the police. What exactly is the Minister's assessment? Is that 100 fte, is that more or is that less? Then I'm gonna come to the counselor who's gonna have to join bigger police stations. You work with picket lawyers all over the place? If there's an attorney present at the police station, it'll save time. Then interrogation can be started earlier, and that is a great advantage. The question I had already asked, but now a little more extensive, is how we are promoted to work with picket lawyers. Then I have some questions in my text that have already been asked. I'll skip it. I have already said something about the recording of the interrogation at the time of interruption. I've already said something about the vulnerable suspects. Then all I have to say is a single divers point. I'll start with the interrogation rooms. Significantly, that's what we're talking about. Are all police interrogation rooms so large that there can be multiple people in it? If not, how many not? And what's that gonna cost? It has been decided to extend from six to nine hours the time limit for the arrested to wait for a lawyer to arrive. That seems to be a justified change, but for minors or vulnerable suspects, they can be extra long for three hours. How is this handled and kept to a minimum?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u60	Mr. Chairman. Colleagues recalled: we are discussing tonight the implementation of European legislation and regulations inspired by the Salduz judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. In this case, a boy claimed to have been beaten by the Turkish police to make him confess the act of which he was suspected. This is certainly a bad thing; there is no doubt about that. For the European Commission, a completely different body from the Council of Europe........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I have to admit that, after studying all these documents, the question arose as to whether there is an acute reason in the Dutch situation to say: you should do this. I know we have to do it, because it is the implementation of a directive. Mrs Van Toorenburg has rightly quoted the example of the series that has recently been broadcast. It's gonna happen to you that you're suddenly a suspect! Nothing is more important than good legal aid during a criminal trial, no misunderstanding about it, but I wonder if there is an acute reason for implementing this regulation from Europe. I'll put the next question to the Minister. It's not gonna happen that we're gonna be the best little boy in the class, is it? Surely it will not be the case that we are all going to regulate things properly here and so let it have an effect on our police capacity and so on, as I also read back in the documents, and that other European countries do not? I know it is said that it has been arranged in many countries for a long time, but is it really or is it a paper exercise? I would like to make that clear. There are a few countries where it is not yet settled; at least I am saying it from my head, France and perhaps some other countries. Does the Minister also keep track of how it's going to be transposed there? I would be sorry if it all happened here and not in other countries. I'd like to get a feedback on that at the appropriate time if it weren't possible right now. I'm here to assess the impact on the police organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u61	Suppose the Minister's answer is that there are indeed other European countries where it is not yet in the law, or where it is in the law but there is no practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u62	Shall we wait for that answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u63	No, I'm not gonna wait and see, Mr. Chairman. I would like to know from Mr Van Oosten what he will do. He says: there is no need in the Netherlands and I think it is unnecessary. Does that mean he's against the law? I'd like to hear more about that. A question is always asked with a certain intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u64	I do, and I want to know. I will tell Mr Van Nispen why I want to know. If you agree to a European rule with 28 countries, I think all countries should do it. I just can't find an acute reason in our system to start working on this right away, but I do and I have to, because legal aid is incredibly important. But let us be clear: will it not happen that other European countries suddenly do not? I want to know, because that will allow the Minister to draw attention to this within the European Council. I'm going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u65	No, you're off. Mr Van Nispen continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u66	Of course, the Minister must draw attention to this. On something like the JHA Council, we are asking for procedural rights to be regulated in other countries, but that was not at all the thrust of Mr Van Oosten's question. He is standing here reluctantly defending a very important bill, or not even that. I sense the same reluctance on the part of the Minister, who comes up with a very limited implementation of a very important law. Let me remind you of something like the Schiedammer Park Murder. Perhaps Mr Van Oosten is aware of that. It did not happen yesterday, but it is also a reason to ensure that the police interviews take place responsibly and that people simply get the legal aid they are entitled to. It's not gonna happen to me that the VVD forgot that, is it? What do you mean there's no need? I really don't get this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u67	I'm asking for the immediate trigger. This is an open question to the Minister. I would like an answer to that. I'm curious about that. No misunderstanding: I am not opposed to this. In fact, I was just saying in my introduction that criminal proceedings can only take place with very good legal aid. It will happen to you, that example of Mrs Van Toorenburg! At the same time, I also note that, and I think it is right to draw attention to this, too, that all this comes from a situation, a completely different situation, in Turkey. And then I'll say, "I don't want to compare our police with that." That's what I'm saying. I put the question to the Minister: will it not be that we are the goodest boy in the class? I'll put that question to the Minister. I'm curious to hear the answer. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u68	No, unfortunately, I can't give it, because Mrs Helder of the PVV is next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u69	Now I'm about to break the nugget. In the meantime, about four years ago, my group drew attention to the fact that you could denounce the European Convention on Human Rights. I have stated the reasons for this very often. The VVD always bumps after them, but eventually she doesn't dare. Now Mr Van Oosten is standing here asking: is there a need? Yes, it is the result of the ECHR, which he always refuses to give up. So he's putting on a really big pair of pants here. He's making sure the cops don't get the money for this. We're heading towards the election now and suddenly, after four years, he's going to ask about the need for the bill. With all due respect, that's what's in the explanatory statement. Is that why he wants to come up with the real reason? Or is the VVD now, in the light of the elections, willing to take a serious look at the termination of the ECHR? Mr Dijkhoff indicated this four years ago together with Mr Blok. They were talking about "politicians in gown."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u70	Let me just look at the exact question that Mrs Helder wants to ask me. I don't think I can be any clearer than I just did. I have put a number of questions to the Minister. First of all: are we the goodest boy in the class, that won't happen and what are you doing about it? Secondly, I asked about the acute occasion. I can't find it right away. I'm not resisting either. I see that the case law is what it is. I see that directive is what it is. That decision has been made and we're all gonna do it neatly, but we're not the best little boy in the class? I would find that very regrettable. I'm here to assess the impact on the police organization. No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u71	What's wrong with being the best little boy in the class when it comes to legal protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u72	What I would find wrong is this. We are implementing European legislation here, and I just want to know if we are the ones who are implementing everything exactly as Europe prescribes. Or are we the only ones? I'd be very sorry to hear that last one. This is deposited from Brussels. It is a statement by the Human Rights Court, a very different organisation. Now the European Commission embraces this and, after some discussion, all Member States say that they are going to do the same. Then I just want to know: do we all? We're not the good guys in the Netherlands, are we? We all do, don't we? And you also hear me say that I am not opposed to this. We're gonna do this, too...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u73	No, this is going to be a repeat of moves. Mrs. Swinkels, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u74	I will just end by expressing the hope that we are the best little boy in the classroom and that we will implement this directive as well as possible, as I have already said in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr President, with your permission, I will now come to the impact on the police organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u76	I do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u77	I just have a few questions about that, ladies and gentlemen. Some predictions are rather intense. They're talking about 500 cops. That's 500 FTE. I know there aren't 500 full-time cops on it, but the interrogations can take longer, which makes a cop spends more time on it. What matters to me is: how do we prevent the number of eyes and ears on the street from falling as a result? I want that to be followed very closely. Does that mean the Minister's gonna intervene? What are the consequences? And how is it that these estimates are so different? My specific question is whether the Minister will undertake to report back to the Chamber at the end of this year exactly what the effects are on the police organisation of the impact of the Salduz regulations, as far as we can verify. Then I have clarity about that, because I miss it at the moment. It should be possible, because we've been upset for a while. I keep my mouth shut, Mr President, because I thought you were going to give Mrs Van Toorenburg the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u78	Sure. I just wanted to see if there was anything else coming after me. Mrs Van Toorenburg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u79	I understand: measuring is knowing. But can the VVD Group today simply state whether it agrees to break this electoral promise? The promise was that money would be added, and now this funding is being taken out of the jar for the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u80	I'm not talking about breaking election promises. I'm talking about keeping a very close eye on the impact it has on the police organization. That's my job. There are around 50,000 agents in this country. I'm reading in the papers now that up to 500 cops might be working on this story. I wouldn't do my job if I didn't ask the Minister critically: would you follow that closely? Then as a Member of Parliament, I know what to do or what not to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u81	That was a charming answer, but it wasn't at all an answer to my question. Mrs Helder has put it nicely, so for the sake of time I will not repeat it, but the election date was 105 million for the national police. From that budget, this is now being paid for. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u82	I note that this sum of 105 million is used to finance interrogation rooms, for example, on an occasional basis. I note that too, looking carefully at the Minister. That's how it is. The bigger question behind this is: what impact does this have on our police organisation in the longer term, given the varying estimates of up to 500 agents? You can find that a charming answer and you can't find an answer, but it is what you have to do with, I'm afraid. Because I think it is my job to follow the Minister closely. Measuring is knowing; you indicated that as well. I want to know what the effects are, because then I might be able to do something with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u83	I think it's my job to control the government. The government has made an appointment with the Chamber. She has indicated what she would do and eventually she simply clears the pot, not only for the interview rooms but also for the total implementation costs and everything that has to do with it. So in the end, 105 million have been promised and there is little of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u84	Mr President, I wanted to move on to another subject, but I see Mr Van Nispen walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u85	You do not go into what Mrs Van Toorenburg says, because you do not hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u86	I didn't hear a question in there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u88	Mr Van Oosten says: measuring is knowing, so we are going to monitor the impact this has on the police organisation. But of course we have all asked these questions a long time ago before this legislative proposal. We know this is gonna cost a lot of money. We know it's going to cost between 200 fte and 500 fte to cops. So we can look into that again, but we've already asked those questions. And then that investigation will soon show that it is indeed letting it be the middle way, costing 350 fte to agents. And then what? What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u89	Then I'll know what's out of the way and we'll be able to figure out what to do as a room. However, I also hear the following. We've been at it for a while. This trial is already under way. Then, of course, we will continue for a few months. Then at the end of this year, when we are going on for a year, I want to know whether those wildest estimates of 512 fte are true. Do they also cause those eyes and ears to be removed from the street? That's what worries me. I am not talking about the longer-term interviews, because that is a fact. That has its advantages, too. I'm talking about the eyes and ears of the state. I just want to know if there's a negative consequence. There's only one person who can tell us that, and that's the minister. That is why I am now asking him to report on this as soon as he has more insight into it. I think that should be possible by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u90	What's going on is that 2,000 fte are leaving the police in the next few years thanks to this government. What is going on is that 105 million would be invested, but that there would be a huge and much greater cut. The costs of this bill, which the VVD is reluctantly defending here, are also taken out of that jar. But the VVD doesn't go beyond: we're going to monitor the consequences for the police and then we're going to see if we need to do something with it. I find this very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u91	You find it disappointing, but I think I'm picking up my work. 'Cause I read what it says. I'm not ignoring that. In fact, I call on the Minister to tell me what is happening. If I know what's going on, I'll know if I'm a Member of Parliament or not. But I do need to know that, and that is why I want to be able to follow that closely. I need the minister, the cabinet, for that. I suggest that I continue with the proposed interrogation assistance. In the end, that is what both legislative proposals are about in particular. Colleagues have already mentioned that lawyers complain about the compensation. I tabled an amendment with Mr Recourt. I am, of course, curious about the Minister's reaction to videoconferencing, videoconferencing and so on. I can imagine that this might have added value to the most efficient use of time, including for lawyers. I would like a response from the Minister. In my view, this could partly respond to the concerns that exist. I now turn to another subject, first-line interrogation assistance. I know I'm posing vulnerable. I noticed this in Mrs Helder's answers when I asked her a question about this. I am not talking about the final assistance, but about the automatic interrogation assistance imposed by the Salduz legislation that we do not yet know. Also because the lawyers are pretty harsh on that fee, I am just curious whether that directive really obliges us to always be a lawyer. Can you read the directive in another way? Is there room in there? I am not saying that I want to, but I do think you should have the courage to think about that, especially when we talk about it. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u92	There is no response from the Minister yet, but from Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u93	What does the VVD think? Just in the beginning, as a lawyer, you know what the consequences of certain behaviors are and how a trial goes. You have to be able to adequately assist your client in that. Surely we are making a mock circus of putting someone there who has not been trained to do so? Isn't that kind of a weird way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u94	The training of a lawyer begins with a law education. Vocational training is then followed. Mrs. Van Toorenburg knows you're one attorney from day one. Then you can take police interrogations. You may wonder if such a person has much more quality, knowledge and so on than someone who has completed the same law school and has been active in criminal law for eight years, albeit not as a lawyer. I'm not ruling it out, but I'm not saying you're just gonna show up. I was a lawyer myself, so I understand what Mrs. Van Toorenburg means. But you may wonder if the monopoly should be with the lawyers forever and ever. I'm just gonna open that question. I am asking whether it is tied up in that directive. Perhaps we should also ask whether it is always that way or not abroad. It may not change at all, but I think it would be a little too limited if we never dare to bring this up. That is why I simply put this question to the Minister for further information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u95	Then Mr Van Oosten also knows that the legal profession is sometimes concerned about the fact that the trainees are indeed being sent to something and are therefore dealing with very complex matters, which they are not at all up to. So the lawyer's looking into whether she should do that a little less. But Mr Van Oosten says: send someone who has just completed his studies or is not a lawyer at all. Isn't that the wrong way to reason? We shouldn't want to go that way, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u96	No, I'm not saying that. I left an open question because I'm just curious. I can save those questions, because I know they are asking questions and calling for criticism from colleagues I think it is okay, but I do not think it is that crazy to put those questions to the Minister. I would like to hear his response to the question of what possibilities there are. Then we'll know. Moreover, we know whether we should think about it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u97	I'd like to take over the baton anyway. I believe that we can discuss the role of the legal profession in general debates. You have foreign legal aid providers, and in civil law, that's pretty tenacious, but now we're talking criminal law and we're talking costs. Now it seems as if the VVD thinks that it can actually all be a bit less by reducing the quality, by reaching out under disciplinary quality assurance of the lawyer or anyway by quality standards that are given to lawyers and not to other legal aid providers. In short, it actually seems as if the VVD says: you know what, we do less quality, then it can also be a bit cheaper. Isn't that the wrong signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u98	I haven't had the word quality in my mouth at any time. I did talk about the lawyer, and I associate the lawyer with quality. I'm sure it is. I didn't say: so now you have to do with less quality. I didn't say that at all, and I certainly didn't mean it like that. I'm just asking if it's mandatory to be a lawyer or if you can think more broadly about it. I don't think that's such a crazy question, especially when I'm thinking of a lawyer intern. I understand Mrs. Van Toorenburg, because that's the kind of lawyer-student that is from day one. Does he know everything? I would like to make one more point. I can see that I have stayed quite within my speaking time. My point concerns the recovery of costs of interrogation assistance from the convicted party. It is proposed in the bill presented to the Chamber by the Minister. I'm asking the Minister how tight it is on recovery. Does the Minister see room to lower that bar a little bit? I just put that in an interruption debate with Mr Van Nispen. The Minister was able to read the amendment on that point. I look forward to the Minister's response to this. This brings me to the end of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u99	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the House's spokesmen for their initial contributions, as well as for the very large number of questions that have been asked. I have to say that some of these questions were also raised in the written round. I will try to deal with them a little bit less because they have already been discussed extensively in the written exchange between the government and the Chamber. The new questions will be dealt with in more detail, with a view to the time and your notice, Mr President, in order to try to complete the procedure by 23.00 p.m. That's gonna be a challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u101	We can already see that this is not going to work. A short answer is appreciated, but never in such a way that it would replace care. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u102	That's right, Mr. Chairman, thank you. I would also like to thank the Chamber for the fact that we can deal with both legislative proposals together, in particular because the deadline for implementation is very near and the legislative proposal implementing the EU directive is therefore desirable. I come to a point of general interest. I will explain how the directive has been implemented in other countries of Europe. This will show that we have opted for a middle course in the Netherlands. We choose this middle way because it strikes a balance between the importance of truth finding and detection on the one hand, and on the other hand we do justice to the importance of the rule of law and legal aid also raised by a large number of spokesmen. This is based on the Dutch system. In this context, I would like to say to a number of spokesmen that the directive could be implemented more narrowly than the government has proposed. I say to other spokesmen that implementation could be extended on a number of points. The directive allows that. So you can still beautify it. I don't think both cases would be good. We have chosen a balance which the government attaches great importance to. I would also point out that we are currently negotiating a new directive, the EU's provisional legal aid directive. The Chamber knows that, because we have discussed this with Members on a number of occasions. The good news, depending on how you look at it, is that we are expected to be able to reach an agreement on this at the June JHA Council on a general approach, that is to say a general approach as called in good Dutch, partly thanks to the commitment of the EU rapporteur, Mr Dennis de Jong, who, as you know, comes from the SP Group there. So we are now discussing two legislative proposals: the legislative proposal for implementation and the supplementary legislative proposal. Part of the discussion is the draft decision on the role of the counsellor during the hearing, which is annexed to the explanatory memorandum of the implementing legislative proposal. When I talk about the implementation bill, I refer to the bill with number 34157. The supplementary bill has number 34159. When I speak of consultation assistance, I am referring to the right of a suspect to consult a counselor prior to questioning. When I speak of interrogation, I am referring to the right of a suspect to be assisted by a counsellor during the interrogation. I now turn to the amendments and the letter of amendment. I create in the supplementary bill the power that the Deputy District Attorney can independently order the arrest of a suspect out of the blue. The Van Nispen/Swinkels amendment to item No. 8 to the supplementary legislative proposal 34159 proposes to delete it. I have heard very well that a large number of spokesmen in the Chamber have expressed reservations about this. I would like to inform you that I leave the opinion on that amendment to the Chamber and that I will take the subject with me in the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I can then present it more in conjunction with other measures. That's right, Mr. Chairman, thank you. I would also like to thank the Chamber for the fact that we can deal with both legislative proposals together, in particular because the deadline for implementation is very near and the legislative proposal implementing the EU directive is therefore desirable. I come to a point of general interest. I will explain how the directive has been implemented in other countries of Europe. This will show that we have opted for a middle course in the Netherlands. We choose this middle way because it strikes a balance between the importance of truth finding and detection on the one hand, and on the other hand we do justice to the importance of the rule of law and legal aid also raised by a large number of spokesmen. This is based on the Dutch system. In this context, I would like to say to a number of spokesmen that the directive could be implemented in a number of areas more narrowly than the government has proposed. I say to other spokesmen that implementation could be extended on a number of points. The directive allows that. So you can still beautify it. I don't think both cases would be good. We have chosen a balance which the government attaches great importance to. I would also point out that we are currently negotiating a new directive, the EU's provisional legal aid directive. The Chamber knows that, because we have discussed this with Members on a number of occasions. The good news, depending on how you look at it, is that we are expected to be able to reach an agreement on this at the June JHA Council, partly thanks to the commitment of the EU rapporteur, Mr Dennis de Jong, who, as you know, comes from the SP Group there. So we are now discussing two legislative proposals: the legislative proposal for implementation and the supplementary legislative proposal. Part of the discussion is the draft decision on the role of the counsellor during the hearing, which is annexed to the explanatory memorandum of the implementing legislative proposal. When I talk about the implementation bill, I refer to the bill with number 34157. The supplementary bill has number 34159. When I speak of consultation assistance, I am referring to the right of a suspect to consult a counselor prior to questioning. When I speak of interrogation, I am referring to the right of a suspect to be assisted by a counsellor during the interrogation. I now turn to the amendments and the letter of amendment. I create in the supplementary bill the power that the Deputy District Attorney can independently order the arrest of a suspect out of the blue. The Van Nispen/Swinkels amendment to item No. 8 to the supplementary legislative proposal 34159 proposes to delete it. I have heard very well that a large number of spokesmen in the Chamber have expressed reservations about this. I would like to inform you that I leave the opinion on that amendment to the Chamber and that I will take the subject with me in the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I can then present it more in conjunction with other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u103	I see that Mr Van Oosten wishes to put a question on the opinion given on the amendment to item No. 8 (34159).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u104	That amendment is 'Room judgment'; I understood that quite clearly. The Minister says that he can then take this issue into account in the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That is not the issue at the moment. There is now an amendment which looks specifically at these two legislative proposals. Should I understand the advice that the Minister says: shouldn't you do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u105	No, I feel that there is a majority to support that amendment, heard the various spokesmen. That is why I said that I am happy that this point is now removed from the legislative proposal by amendment. If this happens, I will bring the issue back into the broad debate on the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, because it can also be included in it. Then we do not have the discussion at the moment and do not pollute the discussion with a point that is not directly related to the role of the auxiliary officer. I come with a second letter of amendment to the 34157 bill. This letter of amendment is based on a progressive understanding, in particular with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the first instance, the question of the right to legal aid in the case of interrogation after standing in the street has been examined. We have looked very carefully at this and discussed it with everyone. At first, the idea was that this would not cause a problem, because the idea was that this would not have any major consequences in principle. However, the practice established on 1 March 2016 has shown that this is extremely difficult to implement. Whenever an investigator wants to ask a suspect of an offence, such as peeing, on the streets, he should first allow the suspect who so wishes to avail himself of his right to legal aid. This may lead to problems in execution in the case of infringements which usually result only in the issue of a fine. Alternatives, for example arresting the suspect, which may not be necessary at all, or inviting the suspect to interrogation at the station, which may not be desirable at all and not necessary at all, are to be realized, not feasible or disproportionate. The Directive implemented by the legislative proposal applies only to the procedure before the court following the defendant's objection to the criminal decision in the case of minor offences which are extrajudicial. Therefore, the Directive does not apply before that date. This therefore means that the directive is being implemented less widely in the area under discussion. The College of Attorneys-General has very recently urged me to make use of the scope provided by the directive in order to exclude the right to legal aid in the case of interrogation in the street after standing position for an offence. This is also the wish of the employers of extraordinary investigative officers. For this reason, the letter of amendment which I have now signed and which I would like to submit, includes an amendment by adding a new Article 28ab, which provides that the right to legal aid in the case of an on-the-spot interview of a standing suspect shall not apply in the case of an offence to be dealt with by a criminal order, a so-called light fact. In a General Measure of Management, I will indicate what facts that will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u106	I'm interrupting. It may be somewhat unusual, but I would like to help my colleagues. I see Members writing with them very quickly with the Minister. He also responds pretty quickly, which is fine. In view of the announcement that there will be a second letter of amendment, in view of the advanced timing and the careful process of legislation, I intended to propose to the Chamber that the second deadline should not be completed this evening. I am proposing this now, so that you know that you will have the stenographic report available for that second period. If you agree with me, everyone knows that we will do the second time at a later date, but I have consulted the Registry within two weeks, so that the follow-up is completed really quickly. I am proposing this now, so that you know that you have the stenographic report at your disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u107	I'm very much in favour of finishing it. These are extensive legislative proposals, which need to be dealt with jointly. You're in the flow of your own story and the answers. It's late anyway. Careful treatment is, of course, paramount, but we can limit ourselves. I'm in favour of finishing it tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u108	I've been informal before, but then I didn't find you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u109	I was present at the thought formation, the probe in the corridors, and I said that I have no objection to your proposal from the care of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u110	Support your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u111	Let me make a comment. I heard you say it, but I also think it is relevant to say that I attach particular importance to the two-week period within which we complete the treatment. With another bill...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u112	I wouldn't have fooled you if I hadn't checked with you. I am trying to accommodate the Members of Parliament and to take careful legislation into account, Mrs Helder. If you don't see it that way, we're just gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u113	I support your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u114	Actually, I'm not happy with it. At the procedural meeting we said that this had to be dealt with quickly with steam and boiling water. The Registry knows how much pressure we have put on it to deal with it quickly. I understand your proposal, but if there are things left, the Minister can always add them in writing. I would have liked to have dealt with these laws quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u115	A second letter of amendment has just been announced. I can imagine that one would like to read it, but well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u116	I can live with both of them, but also because of the interests of the staff, I am not in favour of debating them until the middle of the night. I can therefore imagine your proposal, but only on the express condition that the continuation is planned quickly. If that guarantee could not have been given, at least I would not have agreed to it. But I think that is what we have just agreed to. Anyway, I can also live on with the treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u117	If you don't choose, I can't decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u118	Experience has shown that these two weeks do not succeed. I think it is a noble ambition, but there are already three legislative proposals in this way. That is what we have agreed on, and it has not been possible to do so. And then you have to start preparing it all over again as a Member of Parliament. Interrogation's already started. The parties are entitled to clarity. We can still read the letter of amendment. Before that we have the Thursday and the weekend. I would really appreciate it if we could conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u119	A minority appreciates it very much. A majority can also live with it to carry on. I suggest that we proceed and I see that we can agree with that. I was trying to meet the room. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry for the delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u120	No problem, Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, I appreciate the fact that we can conclude this evening for several reasons, not because it is a day when I have not carried out any other activities, but above all because we are approaching the end of the implementation period. It is foreseen in November this year and obliges me to try to have the bill passed by the Upper House before that time. I come to the Van Nispen/Swinkels amendment to item No. 8 (34157), which opens the possibility of extending the consultation assistance. This is now set at a maximum of half an hour. I can well imagine that in complex criminal cases there could be reason to grant a longer term. This means that I am open to the suggestion that this should be laid down more clearly in the law. The amendment makes a good start on this. Partly because the deadline of half an hour already included in the legislative proposal is usually sufficient, it is my preference to provide that the deadline can be extended by a maximum of half an hour, i.e. a maximum doubling of the proposed period. If Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Swinkels are prepared to amend the amendment on that point, then... I think that is necessary. Let me see if that's true or if we can settle it in the underlying arrangement. No, I see to my officials that we should do it in the amendment. If Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Swinkels are prepared to amend the amendment to include an extension of up to half an hour, I shall leave it to the Chamber. If not, I will consider making it by letter of amendment. I'd rather not do that, and besides, I think it's more convenient to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u121	We are prepared to do so. In my view, it is not enough to say that here and we must table an amended amendment. I'll do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u122	I, for my part, would be happy to provide official assistance to this end, so that it is legally smooth. I would like to move on to the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Recourt on the same bill, which provides for consultation assistance through telecommunications. Mr Recourt rightly pointed out that this already works in the other countries of the Kingdom. I am therefore in favour of this. I have no objection to stating in the law that consultation assistance can also take place via telecommunications. It is, of course, important that, under the directive, the defendant cannot be denied the right to a bodily counselor if, in an exceptional case, the defendant does not want a video consultation but a consultation of a bodily counselor. It is good that I am underlining this for the Acts, because it makes my intention clear. As far as I am concerned, I can leave the opinion on the amendment to the House. Mrs Swinkels has in part no. 10 tabled an amendment on the definition of the vulnerable suspect. In fact, Mrs Swinkels herself has already indicated why this amendment should be discouraged. She gave the example of someone who is arrested with three to five pills at a festival. She thinks that you should assume that this suspect is under the influence and that for that reason a counselor should automatically join. Mrs Swinkels probably also knows that criminal decisions are no longer being taken at festivals, because that regulation has now been suspended. But apart from that, this is typically an example that shows why you shouldn't want this. I really think we should stick to the term vulnerable suspect in the law. The explanatory memorandum shall state the circumstances under which it applies. You have to do customization, and that's why I'm not recommending the amendment. I will continue with the amendments tabled to the supplementary legislative proposal on 34159. The amendment in part No. We just discussed 8 of Van Nispen and Swinkels. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber, and if it is adopted, I will take it with me to the modernisation of criminal proceedings. Mr Van Oosten's amendment to item No. 9 regulates a lower threshold income in the event of recovery of the costs on a person with a capacity to pay. I understand, of course, for all kinds of reasons, that Mr Van Oosten is tabling such an amendment. I also heard it from others, because Mrs Van Toorenburg has also made similar comments. Can't you just cut a tooth and a tooth? On the other hand, I also hear the question in the Chamber as to whether it can be done better. This is actually another example of a situation in which the government has opted for the middle course. For this reason and in view of the balanced way in which this bill was designed and thanks to Mr van Oosten, I must advise against the amendment. Mr. Chairman. I have therefore dealt with all the amendments. I now move on to the 14 topics to be dealt with! Several questions have been asked by members of the Chamber on all these subjects. I'll start with the amount of attorney fees. Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van Nispen a third time, Mr Van Nispen a fourth time and Mrs Helder. I shall begin with Mr Van Nispen's questions. We have a flat-rate system in the Netherlands. That is the basis of our system of legal aid. At the request of the government, the Wolfsen Committee gave extensive advice on this matter. It has come up with a very well-balanced opinion, but it also maintains the flat-rate system. On the basis of the experience gained from interrogation assistance to minors, we have chosen to increase their reimbursement by 50% in order to reflect the situation we expect to arise. There was then a discussion with the lawyer about whether that fee would be too high or too low. In the end, we said that we are going to introduce it as we agreed: one and a half points for interrogation assistance in lighter cases and three points for interrogation assistance in heavier cases. Then I'll talk about murder and manslaughter and vice. We have agreed that we will monitor that carefully. Such monitoring shall be carried out by the Legal Assistance Board. There will be a proper overview of this. I'll send it to the Chamber in due course. The interim conclusion is that there are, firstly, sufficient lawyers who are willing to provide interrogation assistance for this amount in all the forms we are talking about; secondly, that these lawyers are also there quickly enough, except in one place, namely in East Brabant, and on that the Legal Assistance Council is now in consultation with the region concerned; and thirdly, that we are looking very carefully at whether there are problems with this flat-rate approach. In the view of the Legal Assistance Council, it has not yet been established that it is. Unlike Mr Van Nispen, there is no exaggeration of picket lawyers that we should be worried about, but I will inform the Chamber very carefully as soon as I have the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u123	When do you expect it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u124	That's a good question. I assume we can report on this before the summer. For the summer, the Chamber will in any case receive the cabinet response to the opinion of the Wolfsen Committee, also in relation to the opinion of the Barkhuysen Committee, which was established by the Dutch barristers' order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u125	I see to the Minister that he cannot be much more specific than this, but I find that somewhat unsatisfactory. I would also like to know more specifically about the cabinet response to Wolfsen and Barkhuysen when exactly we can expect it, and the monitor that the Minister is talking about was already promised before the end of May. It's not quite the end of May, but it's running into it. Now I understand it's gonna be a lot later, but that data was there long ago, wasn't it? How can this not be available until the summer, perhaps not until early July? Then what gives us the opportunity to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u126	It might be good to recall that we are now living by the end of May. By "before the summer," I mean before the summer recess. That starts on July 8th from the side of your room. That means I have six weeks after the next week to make sure it's there. The room gets it. It's coming. We will discuss it in the Council of Ministers in the near future. I am referring to the Wolfsen Committee's report. The same applies to the status of the Legal Assistance Board. That report will also be given to the Chamber in the time period I have just mentioned. If it is said that there is a huge delay or delay, I do not fully recognise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u127	Well, it's six weeks later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u128	That's exactly why, Mr. Chairman. It could be a little more specific than that, couldn't it? First of all, we have been promised that we will have it by the end of May. We now hear that it is coming in the last week before the summer recess. I would just like to know exactly when we can expect it on both points, even if we do not hear it until the Minister's second term. I don't think that's such a crazy question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u129	I am quite prepared to consider in second term when I think it will be more precise. In any case, I can promise the Chamber it will be before the summer. I expect the cabinet response to Wolfsen will be there before this document, because I already know that we are discussing Wolfsen in the sub-committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u130	I would like to respond very briefly to the Minister's comment. He says there's no exaggeration with the picket lawyers, but he also says he doesn't have any information yet. Then I don't understand it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u131	I just said we have two things. We have the report from the Legal Aid Council that I promised the Chamber on the basis of the monitor. I'll send that to the Chamber before the summer. In the meantime, in the context of this debate, I have asked the Legal Aid Council to tell me what the situation is, and I have just told you that. I do not see where the misunderstanding might have arisen on the side of Mrs Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u132	If there is an intermediate conclusion, why do we have to wait so long for the information that Mr Van Nispen is asking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u133	Because if you want to know if you're making the right conclusions, you need a significant period of time that you're looking at. March 1st is not so long ago. This means that we have taken a period of three months, i.e. until the end of May, to see what the effects would be over that period. We report on this to the Chamber by means of a very proper procedure. I can do it after a week, because I know it after a week. There was nothing wrong at the time; I also informed the Chamber about this during a debate we had on this subject, a general discussion, if I am not mistaken. But of course that is not scientifically significant. What the Chamber is interested in, and without any doubt so is Mrs Swinkels, is what is really happening over the three-month period. That is exactly what I will inform the Chamber about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u134	And next week's the end of May.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u135	I think the late hour might be bothering me now. I have just said that I am taking three months to enable the Legal Assistance Council to look significantly at what has happened in those three months. That's the end of May next week. After that, the board will report to me on that. That won't be the day after that. Of course, it has to be put properly in writing. I'm gonna process that, and I'm gonna send it to the Room neatly. I think that is very clear and I have just said this. In order to take the word 'clear' in the mouth, I come to Mrs Helder's question. Is it true that the fee relates to multiple consecutive interrogations? Now I'm gonna have to watch my back. The fee for consultation assistance in the picket phase is 0.75 point. In addition, compensation shall be granted for assistance provided during the interview. Depending on the seriousness of the suspect's suspicion, the fee is 1.5 or 3 points. Indeed, the interrogation assistance fee relates to one or more interviews at the picket phase. That's the phase of stopping research and insurance. The number of interviews in the picket phase can change. This means that in one case the compensation can be on the broad side and in the other case on the tight side. That is, of course, the result of the standard system which I believe Mrs Helder from her history is still known as a lawyer. The second point concerns the length of the interview. Mr Van Nispen asked whether there could not have been an earlier investigation into the average interview, a question that I understand. We have already discussed this with Mr Van Nispen. In this sense, it is not only a repetition of the explanatory statement and the written discussion, but also of a conversation I have had with Mr Van Nispen before. The answer is that it was not possible to access automatically the hearing time from the minutes, which have now been automated. That has only turned out to be late, and Mr Van Nispen is right that perhaps this could have happened sooner. This means that the police are now working on manual processing in order to obtain sufficient information about the average length of an interrogation. Mrs Helder asked if I could secretly tell you something about the duration, but I really can't get a tip off the veil yet. There's no sign of that yet. In doing so, I have also answered the questions raised by Mr Van Nispen. Mr Van Nispen further asked whether the heavier investigations would be included. The answer to that is yes. Those are the things that are registered in the so-called Summit system. They'll be taken into account in that calculation. Also from this investigation, the police investigation, not that of the Legal Assistance Council, I expect the first results by the end of this month. On the basis of these results, I will see whether the fee fixed needs to be adjusted. I will, of course, inform the Chamber about this. I'll find out about the costs and the consequences for the police. Mrs Van Toorenburg has raised a number of pressing issues such as the coalition agreement and the amount of 105 million. Perhaps it is a good thing that I note that the costs of setting up the interview rooms are incidental costs. It is two items of 4 and 8 million, not to mention the risk that I will have to adjust these amounts in the second period. I believe that in one year we are talking about 4 million and in the other year we are talking about 8 million. They were taken out of the 105 million in two instalments. That is also necessary, because otherwise the search process will get in the way. I have discussed this with the Members on many occasions, including Mr Oskam. This included the question of how this contributes to the blue on the street. I understand very well that Mrs Van Toorenburg is doing so. However, you can also follow a broader reasoning. The cops, the verbalists, have to stay close to the police interrogation, especially in the first few hours, so if the interrogation rooms are all going efficiently and quickly, you can make sure that people can get back on the streets as soon as possible. You can find anything you want. You can also come up with examples where it doesn't apply. But that is the discussion I had with Mr Oskam a year ago, when we found that we did not agree on this point. However, one thing is certain: the fact that I can finance it means that the implementation has been carried out on 1 March and we are now in the process of renovating interview rooms. That's really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u136	That is, of course, a strange argument. 105 million is invested in more blue on the street and the minister says that by setting up those interview rooms he will ensure that that objective is achieved. That's just really the reverse world. The money is taken off, because no other cover can be found by this minister, and then nice weather is played. Can't the Minister just admit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u137	No, because I've already indicated that I don't feel the same way about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u138	The conclusion is that the Minister is still persevering. It is important to say here in plenary that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u139	That's what I'd do in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u140	...the extra money, the 105 million that was conceived for more blue on the street, now sitting in the interrogation rooms and that would have made more blue on the street. That's ridicul.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u141	What is ridicul, I leave it to Mrs Van Toorenburg. I have indicated that this involves occasional investments of around 4 million to 8 million. So that's 12 million, if I'm not mistaken. So we have a lot of money left over from the 105 million. Mrs Van Toorenburg's calculation is that it is over, but I cannot quite follow that sum even at this late hour. A number of questions have been asked about the number of FTEs expected to be involved in the implementation of this legislation. I say to Mr Recourt that this is not known at the moment. It also depends on how this bill is finally adopted. One thing is certain: we are looking carefully at it. The researchers stress that the extent to which assessments will become reality depends on the methodology. The same applies to the working methods of the counsellor and to a lesser extent to the chain partners involved. We started on March 1st and the effects will be insightful over time. In the evaluation of the law, the effects on the police are of course involved. If there is any reason to do so earlier, I will of course not fail to do so. The Chamber can rest assured that the police will inform me of this in good time. The monitor of the WODC investigates how the practice of the counsellor is conducted during the interview and what can be improved. This also involves the consequences for the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u142	I understand the Minister's words about the effects and the monitor of the WODC. My question was actually something more concrete. It's been going on for several months now. If you count it a few more months, you'll be upset for almost a year. After a year, I would really like to get some feedback from the Minister so that we can see where we stand and what the effects are on police capacity. I'm terrified when I read in the pieces that it's 512 fte. I believe that the Chamber should know whether this really has the desired effect. Why? Because it's your eyes and ears on the street. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u143	As I have already promised, I keep my finger on the wrist at regular intervals. If there is reason to inform the Chamber about concerns that live there, I will, of course, do so sooner than in a year's time. But I think I can make some sort of mid-term report feeling after a year. I see no objection to that. I would like to make a commitment to Mr Van Oosten. Then I come to the question of what the number of FTEs we do not yet know exactly how much it will ultimately mean for police priorities. In the documents I have indicated that this number is indeed part of the 49.802 agents identified. This means, in fact, that, depending on the period of time, there may be a discussion about possible reprioritisation. This is the question that we will be discussing with the Chamber in the Spring Paper and in the Millions Note, namely how this relates to the funding of the national police. I have been asked whether I can say something about this now, but the Chamber will understand that I cannot, given our budgetary system. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether all the police stations were already fully equipped. The answer to that question is no. A number of police stations will really have to be adapted. At the moment, we are mapping out how many of these are and how to do it as effectively as possible, at the lowest cost, so that Mrs Van Toorenburg's concerns can also be met. If an agency is not yet ready, improvisation will seek a practical solution. I have already replied to Mr van Oosten's questions on the EU directive in a way. Yeah, it could be a lot less, but it could be a lot more. We have chosen an intermediate route based on the Dutch system to do justice, on the one hand, to the importance of truth finding, detection and evidence and, on the other hand, to the rule of law and the position of a vulnerable suspect during the interrogation. Moreover, I expect that the presence of the counsellor in the police hearing, if we cooperate in this area in a good way, will also in principle make a positive contribution to the quality of the record and the quality of the evidence collection, as shown by the WODC in his research. I thought other Members had said the same thing. However, I also realise that this contribution will probably depend on the individual commitment of the lawyer. That is why it is so important that, following the advice of the Wolfsen Commission, as the Chamber will see in the cabinet response, the quality of the work continues to be taken into account. In his opinion, Mr Wolfsen stated that there were concerns about the quality of the legal profession dealing with criminal law. That is a point of attention that I will take up together with the Dutch order of lawyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u144	The Minister just spoke about the way in which this Directive is handled and implemented in other Member States. I had asked questions about that, too. Perhaps the Minister will get there, but this may have already been the answer. In fact, I have a control question: are we the best boy in the class? Are we the only ones who take this so thoroughly or not? Does the Minister check whether the other Member States are also going to stand up for this? What's he gonna do if that weren't the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u145	Everyone's gonna be at the bar. That's the essence. This does not mean, in all cases, that each country is also involved in implementation. This is one of the many discussions we have in Europe. In the note on the report, I have already indicated how things are going in a number of countries. Maybe it's okay if I just think about that for a minute. For example, Belgium has not included provisions on whether the counsel may intervene during the police interview. However, a one-off authority has been established to request the interruption of the interview to consult with the defendant. The directive has therefore made a different choice than we have in the Netherlands. In France, counsel may be present at the police interview, but may not intervene. He may make comments at the beginning and at the end of the interview. In Italy, counsel may not intervene during the interrogation either. He may also not answer questions on behalf of the defendant. He can ask questions at the end of the interview. Of course, the councilman may also protest if undue pressure is exerted; that goes without saying. In England and Wales they have looked at it in a different way. At any time during the interrogation, the defendant may request to speak confidentially with his counsel. So that is a bit like the Belgian system, but it is not limited to once. The counsel may ask for clarification during the interrogation. He may also advise the defendant not to answer a particular question that you do recognize from television and he may give a suspicious opinion on the answer. Here too, there can be protests against unauthorized interrogation. In Scotland, no questions can be answered by counsel. In Denmark, the counsellor may not give an opinion on the answer to a question raised during the interview, but he may make comments between two separate questions. So you can see that with our implementation we build on the Dutch system and the Dutch way of working. Here too, I have opted for a balance. It will not have escaped Mr Van Oosten's notice that the police stated in their opinions that it had to be stricter and that there should be a very special way of dealing with an interrogation counselor, no doubt on the basis of the police's experience. The Dutch Order of Lawyers chose a slightly different line. Once again, I have chosen to take the middle course between the two parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u146	I understand that there are still quite a few differences between Member States in implementation. Apparently, some Member States deal with it a little more flexibly than we choose for ourselves. If we find within the European Council or the European Commission that we have to talk about statements by the Human Rights Court or any other body, I regret that there is obviously a different explanation. We seem to be stricter than a number of other Member States. I don't quite understand. There's nothing else I can determine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u147	Of course, the directive offers the opportunity to make your own choices, especially if you do it several times. That is the advantage, but also the disadvantage of a directive. Anything you do more than is required by the directive is allowed. That's a choice. On a number of points, we do. On a number of points, we are following the directive very closely and we are not choosing to do so. We do that because we are in line with the system that we know and which we believe is reasonable with the balance between truth finding on the one hand and the rule of law on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u148	I'm just gonna grab the stick. The VVD says: stricter than necessary. That indeed appears to be the case with regard to the right of the defence to interrupt the hearing once. You need boundaries for lawyers who don't know the boundaries. You just need rules that you can rely on. I can imagine that in practice, as is the case with the FIOD, that limit of one time is not relevant at all and that it only improves the quality of the interview, if the lawyer has a broader role and more often says: we are going to discuss this point. How does the Minister intend to deal with this in practice? If the Minister thinks it best to be a bit wider, then how can we make that clear to the practice in the form of guidelines, manuals and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u149	I suggest that we do so through the Acts. We have chosen to make a minimum appointment in the draft decision. That's the middle line between what the police thought was desirable and what the Dutch Order of Lawyers wanted. At that time, I wanted to do justice to both sides and to choose the middle. If I move to one direction, I'm gonna cut the cops short. If I move to the other side, I don't have enough legal skills. Then the question arises as to whether we are not disrupting the careful balance we have chosen in the Dutch system between truth finding and evidence gathering on the one hand and doing justice to the role of the counsellor on the other. You would then raise or lower the scheme. I just mentioned the international equation. There's no way we're out of line. We might even be on the higher side. We allow a little more in the area of what a counsellor may do than in other countries, but there too we may be on the middle ground. With the FIOD and the KMar, that self-evidentity was not at issue. In incidental cases, in many cases after the prosecutor's consent, the lawyer was allowed to attend the hearing. In the absence of rules, the lawyer then depended on the space offered to him during the interview by the investigating officers concerned. There was therefore no question of any powers vested in a counselor and of course there was no right to the defendant. That's where a real M.O. was chosen. The FIOD and the KMar can still use this method. I would like to make it clear to the Acts that the police and the Public Prosecutor are free to deviate from the regulations to the benefit of the accused and his counsellor if they so wish. With the draft decision we have a minimum regulation: the minimum rights are fixed. I assume that in many cases the practice will show that it is no problem at all to deal with it more generously. Mrs Van Toorenburg is right when she says: but wait a minute, what is an interrogation? That's the goal of finding truth. It's not a noncommittal meeting with a cozy conversation, some kind of three-conversation between a suspect, a counselor and a number of police officers. That's not how it works in an interrogation. We must bear in mind that we have opted for a minimum regulation. You can go over that, but in case of discussion it is clear what the minimum agreements are. I think that's important for the order of questioning. So yes, if it goes well and there are no objections at all, you can deviate positively. That's what I'm reporting here for the Acts. I'll make sure that's known to the police and the D.A.'s office. But if the counselor behaves as you sometimes see on television, then there is the minimum that is laid down in the decision. This guarantees that the questioning is an interrogation, I say in the direction of Mrs Helder and Mrs Van Toorenburg. It's not a cozy, non-committal meeting. That is the point Mrs Van Toorenburg had asked for, and I have answered it. Then I'll come to the availability of lawyers. I have dealt with that point. That was a question from Mrs. Swinkels. Mr Recourt and Mrs Helder have also asked questions about this. Mr Recourt asked about the availability of picket lawyers, but that actually comes to the same conclusion. There are two questions related to ZSM. Mr Van Oosten asked whether it could not be done in a different way, or whether it could not also involve other types of lawyers than lawyers. I had a rather extensive exchange of views with Mr Wolfsen, the Dutch Bar Association and other parties. The Dutch Bar Association has a strong preference for lawyers' assistance. I say this to the two representatives of the Dutch Bar Association, who are the only ones in the public gallery. You could jestfully say something about the involvement of the social lawyer, but it certainly takes place on the Internet. I give them my warmest regards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u150	You don't know who's following us all at a distance right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u151	That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Chairman. In any case, I appreciate the fact that the representatives of the Dutch Bar Association have appeared in persona. In their direction, I say that we have good consultation with the Dutch Bar Association. The order has indicated its attachment to legal aid by lawyers. That's what we've been involved in the pilot. That's the way it is right now. However, Mr Wolfsen said in his opinion: see if you could use paralegals not only in the Legal Loket but also in other areas, possibly under the control and supervision of lawyers. I am not opposed to looking at this in the long term, but I do think that we should discuss it very carefully and also consider whether it is necessary. If it's not necessary, it might be preferable to just get an sworn attorney to do that job. I'll come back to legal aid and the ZSM procedure. That too is what I am sending to the Chamber for the summer recess, I say to Mrs Helder and Mr Recourt. On that specific point, I will inform the Chamber further. Mr Recourt asked about the picket lawyers. So it seems that there are no problems there at the moment, except for one area and perhaps in the last few weeks somewhere else. I have been very closely informed about the progress on this part, also because the lawyer said: there will be no lawyer, everyone will leave and we will stop. Mr Van Nispen echoed that sound as well. In any case, as far as I have been informed by the Legal Affairs Council, there is no question of that. There's just picket lawyers and they're on time, too. There are plenty of them and they do their job very well. I would also like to express my appreciation here, in the hope that someone will look, for all the lawyers who are doing this important work in the interests of the rule of law. I come to Mrs Van Toorenburg's point on mobile phones. We have made a practical choice in this respect. I understand very well that Mrs Van Toorenburg says that malicious lawyers can take advantage of that. You can draw conclusions from that in the context of the order. We allow it, because we also have an interest in the fact that picket lawyers are able to respond to the next picket message. It would be annoying if a lawyer who's in an interrogation that's taking a little longer couldn't report that he can't be at the next interrogation, which means that the interview will not continue. For very practical reasons, therefore, we have chosen to do so. Of course, the interrogation officer can intervene if the lawyer doesn't handle it properly. In the worst case, I assume that this will never be the case. Of course, it may be asked via the blanket whether this is the way to deal with the mobile phone. Mrs. Swinkels asked about the destruction of unintentional recorded conversations. Let me say first of all that interviews in the case of serious crimes are always recorded, standard. We don't have the ability to record all the interrogations. That will undoubtedly happen in the future, but there are really no possibilities for that at the moment. Article 4 of the Decision lays down that non-attached documents shall be kept and destroyed without delay by accidental recording or eavesdropping. Then I'm gonna come and give up legal aid. Mr Van Nispen has asked when you can waive legal aid. We discussed this extensively in the written round. Juvenile suspects can't waive consultation assistance. In other cases, the individual investigating officer must ensure that the suspect voluntarily and unequivocally waives his or her right. It goes without saying that you attach importance to doing this right, otherwise you may have another discussion about a absence from form. The directive itself does not prescribe it, but it is of course important for everyone that it is clear. There's been a ZSM pilot. I will include the results in the letter about ZSM and the pilot I will send to the Chamber for the summer. I come to Mrs Swinkels' two questions about the right to renounce. How comprehensive should the defendant be informed about the consequences of a waiver of rights? In any event, he must be informed of its consequences, for example that he cannot benefit from legal aid in the event of a waiver of rights and that this may have adverse consequences. Strictly speaking, this may be a short communication. One thing is certain, as I would have noted here, and that is that the interviewer does not have to advise to consult with a counselor. However, this does not apply to vulnerable suspects and arrested suspects of a crime subject to a sentence of 12 years or more in accordance with Article 28c (2) of the Implementation Act proposal. Those suspects cannot waive their right to legal aid until they have been informed of their consequences by a counsel. I think that this is where the middle ground is: for that group this has to be done carefully and for the other groups it can be done as it has been arranged. I would like to say to Mrs Swinkels that agents are adequately trained to inform suspects about their rights. That is also one of the points for which I have drawn attention in the implementation. We really cannot expect the police to have this in order on 1 March because that date was a surprise for everyone. It will really take some time before the childhood diseases are removed from the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u152	At the very beginning, the Minister advised negatively about Mr Swinkels' amendment on not being able to renounce not only minors but also, for example, those with mental disabilities. He said, "We need tailor-made work." Now I hear him say, "Let's keep the rules as they are." Then I have another question about the practice. Is the police being instructed again to make sure that people with, for example, a very low IQ cannot see what is the result of giving up a lawyer? If you are well able to assess your own position, I can imagine from that worldview the rules that are now in place. However, I do not understand that from the perspective of people who cannot assess their own position. That's not just 15-year-olds. There's more of them. How do we guarantee that that customization is actually delivered and that not somewhere in a police station a cop says: that's just tricky, that's all, so get rid of a lawyer, that's okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u153	I have just mentioned the consequence of this. If, on the basis of the individual case-law, it is then established that the person concerned is actually a vulnerable suspect, it will of course have consequences. Let me say that the police are already aware of the phenomenon of "vulnerable suspect" in a lot of areas. There are many schemes for vulnerable suspects, for example in schemes for victims of all kinds of crimes. We've had an extensive exchange of views with the Chamber on suspects with low IQs. We know that they need a different approach. You have to approach them in a very different way. There are modules for that at the police academy, if I remember correctly. I think the time is right if I summarize that point briefly in a note. Then I can also give a more detailed explanation of the discouragement of Mrs Swinkels' amendment on this point. I really think that goes far and far too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u154	That letter reaches the Chamber before the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u155	I'm gonna take a look at my officials. I'm gonna have to. It's going to be a short note, in which we'll take a look at how we guarantee in the police organization that a suspect is in a vulnerable position in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u156	So the answer to my question is yes, before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u157	Yes, because otherwise you can't vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u158	Can I then ask whether the Minister would also comment in that note on the reason why he does not see anything in the criterion proposed in the amendment, namely that they are suspects who cannot see the consequences of their decision to distance at that time? What's against that? That's what this is all about, isn't it, even in the Minister's mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u159	I think I just said that, but I would like to repeat it. I have just made an explicit commitment, and I repeat my sentence, that in that note I will also give consideration to Mrs Swinkels' amendment and to the reasons why I did not recommend it. Then I come to the questions that Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u160	Mr President, with your permission, that is something other than what I am asking here. The Minister is going to explain why he didn't recommend it, but I would like to see him specifically addressing the proposed criterion. It is also in the explanatory memorandum, but it is not in the law. And I'm just suggesting, just put it in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u161	Exactly, and because it means you won't be able to deliver customization if it's in the law, I'm committed to not getting it into the law. I explained that just now when I rejected the amendment. Of course, if you have an amendment concerning the inclusion of a number of criteria in the law and you are going to write something about them in a letter, you will not escape to raise the point Mrs Swinkels mentioned. But that is actually quite logical because of the commitment I made in the first instance. Perhaps this intervention would not have been necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u162	Finally. I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u163	Any intervention which the Chamber wishes to make and which is authorised by the President is necessary. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u164	I think there's been a misunderstanding. A criterion doesn't limit the judge at all. It doesn't limit the district attorney either. The criterion is that someone cannot see the consequences of surrender, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. And I can fully agree with the Minister on the question of who that is. That's what I said. There is no exhaustive list of this in the amendment. There's got to be room for that. So that can be young people, intellectually limited and, as far as I am concerned, also people under the influence of alcohol or drugs. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u165	Then I'll explain in that letter that if you explicitly include that in the law, you may be able to do the multiple, but not the lesser. There are also many examples in which someone is under the influence of one glass of wine, but is still perfectly capable of making his own judgment. Someone who, as Mrs Swinkels said, walks around with three or five pills, and that's what we call a drug dealer, maybe he didn't take anything himself, even though he says so. Then he would already be eligible for legal aid under Mrs Swinkels' criterion and would not be able to give up, when we do not want to do so at all. That is what this is all about, and I will explain it in a letter. I come to Mr Recourt's question on...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u166	Mr. Van Nispen. We're really not gonna do a second term if we do it this way. I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u167	I'd like to back up Mr. Swinkels anyway. It's a good thing the Minister will come back to it in a letter. Would he also consider the possibility that tailor-made work would remain possible, by making explicit that there is no exhaustive list but, for example, adding 'at least' the categories listed by Mrs Swinkels? Then customization remains possible and then you could also do the more. Can the Minister also comment on this in the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u168	I will go into it in the letter, but I am saying that it is not, of course. I was just saying to Mrs. Swinkels that it could also be someone who is not covered. So "at least" is exactly the wrong term. It's "like." That's the idea. They are examples, but they can also be very different. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Precies om die reden is de wet zoals hij is.]] Of course, we've been thinking about that. That is why we have also indicated in writing when, for example, it could be so. But that is, of course, for individual review. I shall return to that in the letter. I propose that I now answer Mrs Van Toorenburg's question. She asked: should the right to legal aid in the case of offences committed by underage first offenders not perhaps be blown up in this way? Aren't we going too far? I notice that we have chosen to protect juvenile suspects. I would point out that the directive on the procedural rights of minor suspects has now been established. This Directive also provides that minor suspects cannot waive legal aid if they have been arrested. That directive does not allow for exceptions. Whether Mrs Van Toorenburg likes it or not, it is. In my view, it would be pointless to nuance that mandatory consultation assistance now if this nuance had to be reversed later. Mr Recourt's question has already been raised on the subject of 'vulnerable suspects'. Mrs Helder asked whether the directive would force the exclusion of evidence where the defendant's right to counsel's assistance in connection with the police hearing has been violated. This concerns Article 12 of the Directive. That is a question that Mrs Helder did not ask. There is always a question that Mrs Helder has not yet asked, but she would have liked to ask. I will answer that question very briefly. Article 12 of the Directive provides that the assessment of the defendant's statements obtained in breach of the right of access to a lawyer must respect the rights of defence and the fair conduct of the proceedings. In principle, violations of the right of consultation should lead to the exclusion of evidence according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and of the Supreme Court. Whether this is the case only when the right of interrogation is violated remains to be seen. I now turn to the question referred for a preliminary ruling. In doing so, we have a confluence between the judge and the legislator. Mrs Van Toorenburg said that she felt uncomfortable. I understand that, but of course we are dealing with two different quantities. The legislator is about the law and the judge is about its implementation and interpretation. We have a preliminary ruling procedure. The Court has an independent right to assess whether the rules we are proposing are being properly implemented. That assessment is primarily up to the legislator. Then I come to the next four topics. Mr Van Nispen suggested that audiovisual recordings should replace full minutes. I believe that audiovisual recordings will certainly be linked to speech recognition in the longer term, so that the typing is completely out of the question. That's really for the future. We're recording interrogations under the circumstances I've indicated. I am sure that there will be this development in the future, but for the time being we will have to do it with the written report. Perhaps this is a good point to discuss again with Mr Van Nispen when dealing with the modernisation legislative proposals of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is also the answer to the question of why not everything is recorded. That will undoubtedly happen in the future, but that too is a question of money. This is also the answer to Mrs Swinkels' question. In a situation which is in line with the exception that we have incorporated into the law and which is also provided for in the directive, it should be possible, in very serious cases, immediately, possibly without the counselor, to begin questioning in order to avoid serious negative consequences for the life, freedom or physical integrity of a person. Mrs. Swinkels asked if you shouldn't answer the questioning. The answer is: yes, in difficult cases certainly. It's already taken care of. In non-serious cases, however, it is not the case, for the simple reason that technical provisions may not be available. That's what you have to assume when it comes to something that's very urgent. This can happen somewhere else than at the police station. Mr Van Nispen suggested recording it with the iPhone. I'm finding he didn't say that. I thought he meant that everyone has simple modern things for that, because everyone has a camera these days. I think Mr Van Nispen and I understand each other very well: this must be done carefully and not through an iPhone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u169	I made that remark to illustrate that it does not require the most high-quality equipment that would cost millions of euros. In that context, I made that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u170	Then we understand each other, but even then you have to make very high demands on that equipment. I would just like to refer to the discussion on tap equipment that we have had on occasion. It is only a question of whether this is something else, because this is of course also quite fundamental. The police report must be correct, and that recording must also be correct. If you have them, they have to be good and you have to make demands on them again. I cannot comment on the assistant officer, because I have spoken about this in the context of the amendment. Then I come to the final subject: the story of legal aid costs. There too I see two currents. One part of the Chamber says, "Can't that be better?', As Mr van Oosten has done with his amendment and the other part says "can't it be any less?'. Here too we have chosen the middle road. There is a risk that the defendant's decision could be influenced by whether or not to be assisted by a counselor if he knew and realised that there is a possibility of a cost story. I think we should be realistic in this, because we know that, in the current situation, there are sufficiently strong suspects who have not been taken into custody and who want to be assisted by a counselor, that counselor himself has to pay. Those suspects are already at the same balance in the current system. Of course, it must be clear to the defendant whether he will be regarded as sufficiently capable in the event of an irrevocable conviction. If he is in doubt, he can also apply for an income statement through the Legal Assistance Board. The assistance of the picket lawyer, I would say to Mr Van Nispen, remains outside this measure. So the cost of this is never recovered from the defendant. Mr Van Nispen asked whether there could be a problem in the context of the Plukze legislation. I see Mr Van Nispen shaking no. Then I'll skip that question. Furthermore, the expected costs and benefits of the cost story measure have been asked. We expect an annual return of around 2 million euros. At the request of my Ministry, the Council issued additional opinions for the case-law on the workload of the proposal. These are calculated at 0.5 million at the start of the scheme, reaching around 2.5 tonnes once experience has been gained. This brings me to the end of the first-term answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u171	I'll take a look around. Can the members live with a second term of two or three minutes? I note that this is the case. Then let's move on. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u172	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering all my questions, including those I have not asked. That's always special, but very much appreciated. The Minister's final point, the cost story, went a little fast for me. The minister said the picket lawyer would stay out of that, of course. There's no such thing as stupid questions. That is why I should like to ask the Minister what exactly we are talking about. Can the Minister explain once again the risk that people will waive legal aid for financial reasons? My group remains concerned about funding. This funding is, after all, the most important condition for the successful and legally responsible implementation of these legislative proposals. I find it strange that the interview was apparently not yet known in the Ministry, because it is simply a matter of minutes. But yeah, we're gonna see it in the monitor we can expect. About that monitor and the duration of the interviews in the light of the lump sum system of legal aid we have, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that police interviews often take a long time and need to make available to an attorney at the last minute for the granting of legal aid;]] [[Whereas adequate funding of the right to interrogation assistance is an important and necessary condition for the successful and legally responsible implementation of the Directive and case-law which lays down the quality and right to interrogation assistance;]] [[calls on the Government, in a reasonable manner, to draw on the results of the monitoring of the average interview and the number of interviews,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34157-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u173	I'm not at all reassured about the cost to the police. Actually, I think that's just a bad story. The police are already under a lot of pressure, as is well known. The cost of this bill comes out of the pot with 105 million euros. The debate is, of course, much wider. The national police are facing huge financial problems. That's why it's a good thing that the House of Representatives has the Kooiman c.s. motion. (Parliament adopted the resolution) We are eagerly awaiting what the Spring Note will bring to the national police. We cannot have that discussion today, because a motion has already been adopted, which the Minister has to carry out. I'm coming up with the lawyer's participation in the police interrogation. The Netherlands has opted for the minimum, from which a positive deviation can be made. The SP wants clear guarantees in the draft decision that the lawyer is not a spectator but a legal aid provider. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister has indicated that a counsellor may not only make observations prior to and after an interview, whereas this is stated as such in Article 5 (2) of the draft decision on establishment and order of the police;]] [[Whereas Article 8 of the same draft decision clearly states that a counsellor may be warned or even removed if he disturbs the hearing or otherwise fails to comply with the rules;]] [[Considers that this is already drawing a clear line on the conduct of a counsellor during interviews and that Article 5 (2) of the draft decision merely leads to unnecessary confusion;]] [[calls on the Government to delete Article 5 (2) of the draft establishment and order of the police so that a lawyer is not a spectator but a legal aid provider in an interrogation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34157-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u174	My final point is the recording of interrogations. It is now compulsory registration only in the case of serious crimes. In the future, all interviews must be recorded, as more groups have said here. The Minister also says that this will happen in the future but that it is a question of money. I understand that, but I still think it is important to put a motion to the Chamber on this point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government does not wish to record all interviews which pose a risk that no visual or sound material will be available if there is a discussion about the content of an interview or the manner in which it has been conducted;]] [[Whereas, in any event, discussions on the questioning of suspects in which no counsel was present should be able to be prevented or resolved by recording these interviews;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that as many interviews as possible can be recorded in the future and to start with interviews in which no counsel is present,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34157-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u175	If this motion were to be adopted, it would not of course mean that it should all be settled tomorrow. It doesn't say that either. In fact, I am asking the government to make an effort to do something that makes perfect sense, namely to include this crucial stage in the search, so as to be able to verify what has happened in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u176	Mr. Chairman. It's always nice to get an answer to a question you haven't asked, but it gets a little less if you already know the answer. It's not fun at all if you don't get answers to questions you've asked. I would normally like to thank the Minister for his reply, but not in this case. Let me also explain why. I have asked questions, but the answers refer to colleagues. I am not mentioned at all, while my input was clear. At least it was long enough. Let me give you two examples. I've asked if the current practice of the FIOD and the National CID will be maintained. Mr Van Nispen gets an answer to that and I don't. I will get the answer from that, but it would be a credit to the Minister if he mentioned my group. The same applies to the question of whether the Minister is prepared to monitor the consequences for the FTEs in the police. Mr Van Oosten will receive an answer and my group will again not. I have also asked whether the fees for consultation assistance and all interviews are there, because this is not clear from the explanatory statement. It says here it's about the picket phase. The Minister's answer is: it's about the picketing phase. Well, I figured that out myself. In between the rules, I can see that this is the whole package, but the Minister is here to answer questions, and that is why he failed to do so. Even more disappointing is the answer about the police. That EUR 105 million is not meant for this. It's meant for more blue on the street and more capacity for detection. That's literally in the coalition agreement. It's a hell of a break with that and that's downright disappointing. That explains why I co-signed the motion to be tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg. My group hopes, of course, that this motion will be adopted. I'll come to a conclusion. I have one more question for the Minister, and I hope I will get an answer. There has been talk of an interim report or a progress report on the FTEs, because it is going to cost the police capacity. If it is going to cost the police a lot of capacity, then the question is what the minister will do about it, because the water is not on the lips of the police, but on the lips of the police and perhaps even above their heads. My group is concerned about this and believes that action should be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u177	Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the letter in which the Minister will respond further to my amendment concerning the definition of vulnerable suspects and the limitation of their right to waive legal aid. That seems important to me. One important point is that the rights that are granted to suspects - I have already pointed this out - are only something if you can pay the lawyer you are allowed to consult and be present at the hearing. This means that there must be sufficient funding for legal aid. In this connection, I shall table the following motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that suspects are given the right to be assisted by a counsellor in the interrogation of the police;]] [[Whereas this will often be done on the basis of addition;]] [[Whereas effective legal protection requires the availability of sufficiently well-trained lawyers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure fair and real compensation for lawyers who provide legal aid in the police interview, the compensation being a reflection of the actual time spent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Swinkels and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34517-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u178	Mr. Chairman. It is perhaps significant that there are currently more police officers in this room than lawyers, while we are talking about the tension between the two professions: the police who are interrogating someone and the lawyer who may be present. Today our officers are again present in greater numbers. We are always proud and grateful for that. I have one question and two motions. The question is why the Minister takes such a restrictive view of the directive on young people. I've been communicating with a juvenile agent all week, even at the moment, although I'm not supposed to. It makes it very clear that this is a problem. 16- or 17-year-olds are entitled to legal aid for a very minor offence; the hearing may be conducted in the presence of a lawyer. I understand that the Minister says that there is a certain right, but we in the Netherlands have a very nice protective juvenile criminal law, with also an educational task. This is not as neatly regulated in all countries as in the Netherlands. We wonder whether this is appropriate, especially now that the Minister himself has said on page 5 of his reply that there is room for manoeuvre in the directive on this point. I would remind the Minister once again. I ask him to explain this again. Another objection concerns financing. On the one hand there are implementation costs and workload, on the other hand there are introduction costs. It's crazy that those costs go off the budget of our national police. That is why we are tabling the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, 34157 and 34159 involve significant implementation costs and the increase in workload will be at the expense of the operational capacity of the national police;]] [[Whereas this is highly undesirable, particularly in view of the lack of financial resources in the national police;]] [[calls on the government, the implementation costs and the increase in workload not to reduce current budgets and operational strength in implementing organisations, including national police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34157-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u179	And then the other side of the story. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government is seeking financial coverage for the implementation of the legislative proposals on the right to police assistance (34157) and (34159) in the additional budget of the national police force of EUR 105 million per year;]] [[Considering that this amount was committed to "more blue in the street" and to strengthening the investigative capacity when the coalition agreement was concluded;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the costs associated with these legislative proposals are not at the expense of the additional funds promised of EUR 105 million per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34157-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u180	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. My compliments on the condition of the Minister, who has had a tough day, and who is now setting out the cabinet's position quite clearly again two debates in a row. My condition is worse, while I like sports. The cabinet has found a reasonable balance with these two laws. This debate has made it better, by the way. A number of statements made in the Acts and advice on a number of amendments are acceptable. There is another letter on the agenda, but I would like to reassure you that in practice the procedure is such that the situation for people who can reasonably expect them not to be able to see for themselves the consequences of the decision not to want legal aid is well secured. I'll wait for the letter with excitement. I believe there's room for quality interviews with the lawyer. In the debate, I am reassured that this one-off interruption is being used by the lawyer in case things are not going well. The basic attitude of the police will be similar to the current situation at the KMar and the FIOD: together with the lawyer, consider how best to use it. The powers to limit it will only be used when it is not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u181	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to make two comments. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given to my questions. I would particularly like to thank him for his commitment to monitor very closely the effects on police capacity. Colleagues, too, have rightly expressed their concerns about this. Of course, we would have already been informed. I understand the Minister's commitment in such a way that within a year we will simply be told very explicitly what the effects of the implementation of these two legislative proposals are. I look forward to that to some extent, because then I know exactly what I am talking about. My second point concerns the Minister's response to the Wolfsen Committee's opinion. Do I understand correctly that it also includes a reflection on legal aid provided by other than mere lawyers? The Minister said something about it. He has said that he understands it and that he can feel some sympathy for it, but I wonder when I will see it coming back. Or can I not expect that from the Minister and should I think about it myself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u182	I have found that the Minister can respond immediately after some arrangement of his papers. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u183	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Helder that I would be very sorry if I failed to answer the questions. The reason would be that I tried to answer just over 60 questions within a reasonable period for the Chamber. I fully endorse Mrs Helder's remark that she also asked questions. That will undoubtedly be confirmed in the Acts. Nevertheless, I would like to point this out. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to do my best to answer the questions that have been asked. Mr Van Nispen asked when there is a cost story, now that there is no cost story with the picket lawyer. For clarity: there is no cost story with the picket lawyer in the phase of stopping for research and insurance. There is, however, a cost story when a counselor is added after an order for remand if there are grounds for doing so. Mr Van Nispen further asked how great the risk is for someone to abandon a counselor. It seems to me to be the experience so far that, where it is already up to now, it is very limited. I therefore consider it an acceptable risk. Otherwise, I would not have proposed it in this way. I deal with motions for resolutions by spokesperson, and that means that I shall now proceed with Mr Van Nispen's motion on item No. 12, in which he asks the government to reasonably link the results of the monitoring of the average interview and the number of interviews. This motion has the advantage of being rather vaguely formulated. I therefore ask Mr Van Nispen whether I can understand his motion in such a way that I have the freedom to do less if the monitor shows that the 50% increase we have applied is too high and that I pay more in the flat-rate system than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u184	If the research proves to be good and representative, and if it is true and sound on all sides, then we can reasonably draw conclusions from it. That is what we are going to talk about. However, I also want the opposite to apply, otherwise I will not make this commitment. If the survey shows that the average interrogation period does not fit within that hour and a half, the Minister cannot say: unfortunately, we do not have the money for that, and that is why it is not going to happen. So I want the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u185	Despite the advanced hour we have arrived at the stage of praises and offerings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u186	This clarification makes it clear what Mr Van Nispen's intention is, because he says: if it turns out that there should be more, the Minister must do more, regardless of whether he has the money to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u187	That's not what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u188	You may interrupt, Mr Van Nispen, but next time you will have to do so via the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u189	Mr Van Nispen just said: if it turns out to be more than one, I should not be told the story here that there is no money to do the more than one. That's the point. We have included interrogation assistance in the 2016 budget. We have made an assessment of it and on this basis there is a budget available for interrogation assistance. The occasional costs of setting up the interview rooms have been partly borne by the 105 million. I had an exchange of views with Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Helder. I would like to emphasise Mrs Helder! On the other hand, we have made an assessment of the additional costs. In addition, I will announce to the Chamber all kinds of measures in the letter on the Wolfsen Committee, but I do not want to anticipate them now. I have to discourage the motion because I don't want to get ahead of that careful monitor. Of course, I will enter into the debate with Mr Van Nispen later. In the motion tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Swinkels in part No. 13 the Government is invited to delete a provision in the draft decision. However, this decision is an example of the middle course I have chosen. I do not bow too much to one side or the other in that arrangement, and this motion would be an infringement of that. That's why I have to dissuade her. From the point of view of the motion in part No. I do not disagree with Mr Van Nispen's 14 comments, and the explanation given by Mr Van Nispen makes it a very nice motion. He says: it would be nice if one day in the future we could record as much as possible, and therefore not all, interrogations, to start interrogating where no counsel is present. So that can also be in 2030 or something like that. However, I think that Mr Van Nispen is going to exert some pressure if this motion were to be adopted. I therefore find it a bit difficult to point out. I can't meet the "to start," because that just can't happen in the next two or three years. Nor can I ensure that as many interviews as possible are included in the future, but the idea is, of course, that we would like to do so in the light of the development of technology. If I may see the motion as a general encouragement to the government not to turn a blind eye to the technical possibilities in the future, then I think I will leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. However, I can also imagine a number of Members saying: let us really talk about it in due course, then perhaps we do not need that motion. Then Mrs Swinkels and Mr Van Nispen have the motion in part No. 15 submitted. It states that "the fee is a reflection of the actual time spent." I understand that motion in such a way that Mrs Swinkels says: that must be an hour's bill. That is also what the legal profession is advocating, where they say: pay the costs by the hour. However, this is a waiver of the flat-rate system that we have put together very carefully. If you do, I'm gonna have to discourage that motion, because that's a system breach. Then I come to the motion on part No. 16 by Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u190	Given the late hour, I'm a little slower. Would the Minister be able to live with it if I changed the motion in the sense that it would say 'the remuneration is a reflection of the average actual time spent'? Then it will not be an hour's bill, because that is not the intention of the motion either, and that is not what it says. What if I added the word "average" to "the time actually spent"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u191	Then the question arises as to what Mrs Swinkels means by that motion. Mrs Swinkels says that we have a flat-rate system, which is a good system. We must also ensure that there are additions. There are. In addition, effective legal protection is necessary and well-trained lawyers need to be available for this. We have confirmed the fact that we have a lump sum system. Then, with all due respect, I do not really see what this motion is doing, except to say: Minister, what an excellent minister you are, and what good is the system that we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u192	It's just that you say it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u193	No, I'm interpreting the motion. I wonder if Mrs Swinkels, if this motion is adopted next week, will write a letter to me or that she will say in the next AO legal aid: Minister, you have done that motion fantasticly on the basis of current policy, because damn it, how wonderful, you have made the progress...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u194	Now the late hour is really starting to chop into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u195	Mrs Swinkels is not going to write a letter, Mrs Swinkels is going to receive another letter from the Minister, including about the monitor and the time spent by lawyers. The purpose of this motion is to ensure that it is consistent with the results of the monitor, of that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u196	Aha! Okay, but it doesn't say any of that. Then I say the same as I said on what is actually the same motion tabled by Mr Van Nispen: we are just waiting for the monitor. Then I must advise against this motion. Then I am glad that we have had this little debate, because now it is clear. Mrs Van Toorenburg warned about the young. I'd like to think about that for a while. I believe that we have also opted for the middle course here, but I would like to think about it for a moment. If I change my mind, I'll take it with me in the letter. If I do not write anything in the letter on young people, then my position has remained what it is today. Can I have that with Mrs. Van Toorenburg? If my reflection requires me to change my mind on this, I will return to that in the letter and if Mrs Van Toorenburg does not find anything in the letter before the votes, then I will stick to the position I have expressed earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u197	I agree with that, if the Minister does promise me that he will actually talk to a couple of cops or at least organise it in such a way that he talks to youth agents from the workplace who actually do the interviews with those kids. They run against this and they cannot fulfil their educational tasks in this way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u198	I won't do that myself. Considering how the next few days will be filled, in the light of the report that has been received today, I really will not have the opportunity to do so. So I will not do it myself, but I will, of course, talk about it again. I do notice that when I was interning as a police attorney myself, my experience was that at the time I was a police officer.I'm talking about a long time ago.The enthusiasm for lawyers in general wasn't automatically high. I think we should look at that too. We have more interests than just the interests of the policemen themselves, which Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly pointed out. Of course, at the same time, we have to consider the importance of the young suspect, as well as the interests of our rule of law. But I will do that exercise, and if the Members find nothing else in the letter, it has not led to any other interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u199	What is your exact appreciation of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u200	No, this was the answer to a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u201	An answer to a question, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u202	I'll come to the motion in part No. 16 by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Helder. This motion calls for implementation costs and workload increases not to be at the expense of the budgets and operational strength of the executive organisations, including the national police. Of course, I cannot help but dissuade this motion, even in the absence of cover. The same applies to the Van Toorenburg/Helder motion in part No. 17, which provides that the abovementioned legislative proposals should not be at the expense of the additional funds committed at 105 million a year. I can only advise against this motion because of the problem of cover. I think I'm at the end of this. But then I have a problem, because Mr Van Nispen, I remember, said something about the lawyer as a participant rather than as a spectator. Was that a question? I understand from him that this was a motion. You can see it's getting late. It was the motion in part No. 13. For the record, I'm gonna see if I've discussed it properly. I did a good job of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u203	Yeah, we'll take a look at this. The motion in part No. 13 members of Van Nispen and Swinkels have been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u204	That's right. I would like to thank you very much, Mr President, for the willingness to lead this debate until the late hour of 0.05 p.m. I would also like to thank all the spokesmen for the extremely enjoyable substantive debate we have had with each other. This gives people energy, and that also explains why I am so happy to be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u205	Thank you very much. I believe that Mr Van Nispen wants something more with a particular motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u206	That's right. In my motion to part No. 12 is asked to make reasonable reference to the outcome of the investigation. I thought the Minister's reaction was a little faint, but let's go. I want to hold the motion anyway. Perhaps we can wait for the investigation and then discuss it further, or put an amended motion to the vote. The motion in part No. So I'd like to keep 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u207	At the request of Mr Van Nispen, I propose his motion (34157, 34159), No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u208	I saw Mr Van Oosten come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u209	Maybe I missed it, though I tried to listen carefully. I have just asked what I can expect back with regard to my question to the Minister about legal aid providers other than lawyers. I had the impression that the Minister might take this into account in the debate we are still holding on the Wolfsen Committee, but I am not sure. So I just wanted to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u210	I do not want to anticipate the letter I would like to send as a cabinet response in the context of the Wolfsen Committee, because I still have to discuss it with colleagues. It is a cabinet reaction and is therefore discussed first in the cabinet. I have already indicated that, after consultation with the Dutch order of lawyers, among other things, the idea is primarily that we should now use legal aid through lawyers, but that I do not rule out the possibility that we might think otherwise in the future. As far as I'm concerned, the primary approach is to do it basically with the lawyers themselves. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that I agree entirely with Mr Van Oosten that you can also look at alternatives such as paralegals. There must be a need for this, and we really must look at it first. After all, we have a system that works well. If that just continues to work, you might prefer to just let lawyers do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-8.u211	I conclude the debate with thanks to all the participants. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the amendments and motions for resolutions.
