ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Bosman in Box K. He is supported in the defence of his initiative proposal by Désirée de Groot, Jasper Boon and Jarid van de Steeg, all employees of the VVD group, and Joris Groen of the Ministry of Security and Justice. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. He acts as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first-term answer and then the second-term answer, if that is possible. Mr Bosman has the floor for his first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The first term of office has already taken place a long time ago. In the meantime, I haven't been idle. The Chamber has requested and received additional information from the Council of State. We have tabled a letter of amendment and I am pleased that we can continue the debate. Even before the start of the Statute in 1954, demands were made for the establishment of Dutch people in Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten on that territory. Demands are made in the areas of income, training and employment. In fact, to cite the example of Curaçao, in the framework of 80/20 legislation, the Curaçaoian is first in turn when it comes to work. Only then can a Dutchman get to work. The motivation for this is safety and viability. I respect this legislation, just as I expect people to understand our real purpose in Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. For no Dutchman will understand that we have not been crossing the border with the Caribbean countries in the Kingdom for much longer. That is what this bill is all about: crossing the border and ensuring that an unprepared departure to the Netherlands is no longer the same for many people as a lack of perspective in our country. As Professor Oostindie said: poor chance in the Antilles is hopeless in the Netherlands. As far as I am concerned, the initiative law before us is so logical and fair that you can ask yourself why that law has not been in place for a long time. That this is not just a wish of mine, let us be clear. This is evident from all the statements made by many political parties in the House of Representatives over the years. Whether it concerns the motion in which Mirjam Strong asked for an admission regime in 2004, or questions from Parliament from 2004 by then MP Dijsselbloem, who wanted to have access to the crime figures. In 2007 D66 agreed with the return of young criminals by then Minister Pechtold and in the same year MP Van Bommel indicated that for the SP I quote "any admission regime for Antilleans is negotiable." So it is a broad shared desire to restore balance within the Kingdom, because that is what it is about: restoring balance. I do not think there are many Dutch people who think it is fair that the Caribbean countries in the Kingdom strictly regulate the arrival of Dutch people, while the Netherlands does not put them in the way. Don't speak Dutch, don't have any connection with our country, be criminal, have no prospect of work or a meaningful participation in our society: so far that was no problem, the door of our country was wide open. This situation isn't good for anyone. Not for Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, because they did not have to take responsibility for their own development and for making young people productive in the power of their lives. The situation is also not good for those who come here from the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom. What's attractive about getting into a country that you can barely turn around with in society? What is attractive about crime as the only future perspective? The unregulated arrival of groups from the Caribbean countries of our Kingdom is, of course, not good for our country either. It is not good for the Netherlands that such a large group of fellow statesmen so rarely find a job and so often fall into crime. The inhabitants of municipalities such as Terneuzen, Zwolle or Den Helder, where Antilleans are overrepresented, can talk about this. The problem is difficult to solve if new people continue to come without perspective. It hurts me to hear and see, but it is a fact. Let me give you an example. At the beginning of this month, the mayor of Terneuzen declared the entire city a security risk area, following the release of a number of persons suspected of being involved in a shooting in Terneuzen. It was a mutual feud within the local Antillean community. It is no small matter if people have such an impact because of their behaviour that the whole city must be declared a security risk area in order to prevent the flame from falling apart again. Then you have to address that. You're just gonna live nearby and face this kind of violence. And it's not an incident. It has been going on for years and unfortunately Terneuzen is not alone in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	Of course, I sympathise with anyone who says here or anywhere else: criminals, criminals, people who commit violence or other forms of crime, you have to deal with. But isn't the essence of the issue we are discussing today that the VVD is trying to place all Antilleans in this corner by the same measure? Is the VVD not trying to do so in advance by saying that a certain part of this group is seriously criminally behaving like this for every other population in the Netherlands, and that is why we are taking measures that all Antilleans are taking? Does this not include the criticism of the Council of State and of human rights organisations that have addressed this issue, and also of me personally?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. It is good that we discuss this, because it is good that we see that there are problems. It's good that we both accept that the problem is so big that we have to deal with it. How are you gonna do that? I will go further in my text as to why I did it this way. Mrs. Gesthuizen refers to stigmatizing the group. I will resume my story with the words that most of the Antillean people have no problem, that these people are very welcome here and that they are seriously working on it, to be present in this society. I warmly welcome that. But over the last 20 years we have been dealing with this problem, and we have not got out of it. Looking at the statements made by many colleagues in this Chamber that something must be done, I have chosen this solution. Of course there is criticism of this, but it must be borne in mind that this solution is as close as possible to the legislation of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. Not so much because I think we should have what they have, but also look a little further: I want to end up with a rich law. In it, all the different laws are placed side by side and transformed into a common law. I think that's the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	The need for reciprocity cannot be met. We all know that, which has been recognised several times, here in this Chamber too. The situation on the islands is not comparable to that in the Netherlands, because the islands are too small to offer 17 million Dutch people a home. It is good that Mr Bosman himself is already using the word'stigma' here, because that is at the heart of this discussion. For me, that's where the problem lies with this bill. I will listen with interest to the further argument, but I do fear that a solution consisting of such rude guns will certainly do more harm than good in the long term, because in my view this is about stigmatizing a large population.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	No, that's not happening here. Reciprocity comes back every time. Is the right with which you do this the reciprocity? "They do it, so we can do it." That applies only to the legal part. I say every time we make treaties for all countries within the Kingdom. If it is allowed for Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten treatyically, then it cannot be that it should not be allowed for the Netherlands. After all, you are covered by the same treaty, the Statute. From a legal point of view, I fully agree with you that it is easier for Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin to explain than for this bill. But I'll certainly try to explain that. I think I have a good story because I think, looking at history, I'm not gonna go ice cream overnight. I didn't just jump into the deep end of this bill. We have given this serious thought and we have talked to a lot of people about it. That is why I have chosen to sit as close as possible to the legislation of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	My party also has very fundamental problems with the elaboration of this law, namely that A-Dutch and B-Dutch are created on the basis of origin. But I would like to take another step back to the problem that Mr Bosman is trying to solve. When I listen to his words, it seems like large groups are coming to our country, or there are large quantities of criminals. Of course, you shouldn't look away when the numbers are negative. The number of Antillean young people coming to the Netherlands has fallen dramatically in recent years to only 4.000 a year. The proportion of suspects of crimes among Antillean youth has also decreased. Isn't Mr. Bosman just too late to come up with a solution? Hasn't this problem largely solved itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr Sjoerdsma points out that there are problems that we must name. That's good. I don't agree with him that the problems have been solved. We can tell by the problems that are still there, whether we're looking at Zwolle or Terneuzen. It's a small group with big effects. That really is a very big problem, which is different from the crime of other groups. With regard to the decline of immigration, governance is also forward-looking. I am very concerned about what is happening in Curaçao and Saint Martin. In Curaçao there will be elections, and then Gerrit Schotte will come to power. I see it happening. We know Gerrit Schotte. He's been convicted of crime. People on Curaçao say, "It doesn't matter if you're a criminal, I'm gonna vote for you anyway, because you're a good guy who takes care of his surroundings. If that's the idea of people in that culture, then we have to look seriously at it when people come this way. If it is said that crime is decreasing, I think: perhaps not in the future. I therefore find it unwise that we would not be able to say: all I ask of you is that you have an income, that you have a job or that you are studying. This is no different from the demands of Dutch people on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, but also of other Europeans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u9	Let me now turn to the stigmatizing thing Mrs Gesthuizen was just talking about. What did Mr Bosman just say? He says: when those people are elected and when it is evidently in that culture to be criminal.... "Culture is about being a criminal." I would ask Mr Bosman to weigh those words again, because I think it is quite something to say that culture on the islands is criminal, that the people on those islands are criminal. I don't think that's wise. This does not solve the problem that indeed exists in the Netherlands. I think all that does is stigmatize. As a Chamber and as a cabinet, we should stay very far away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u10	I find it striking that people trust a man like Gerrit Schotte when he has been convicted of corruption, money laundering and abuse of office. Justice simply calls him corrupt and the judge even says that Mr Schotte is only dealing with himself, with total disrespect for the people of the island. I am very concerned about this, because it only increases the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u11	But you're talking about culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u12	The initiator will speak first and then you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u13	I understand Mr Sjoerdsma's concern and I share it, but we must be careful not to look away from it. This is a thin line, which I absolutely agree with Mr Sjoerdsma, but we have to name it. That's the problem of recent times. We've been working on this for 20 years. I know Mr Pechtold was working on a bill to send back criminal Antilleans. That's a thin line. What makes you say that? How can you handle it? In the end, we want to find a solution to the problem. That's the most important thing for me. I think it is important that this law offers an open door. People can just go in, they're welcome and no one can stop them. All they're asking is, do you have a job, do you have an income, do you have an education? I don't think those are weird questions. If you just participate in society, with all the work and ambition you have, you won't notice the law at all. Who's gonna get hit by this law? People who are criminals. You can't get it much more surgically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u14	Now Mr Bosman is going around it. He's right to appoint corruption. You've got to deal with it. That's perfectly right. But to say that this is obviously in that culture and that we must treat the group of Dutch who were born on the islands differently than the Dutch who were born on the mainland, that is a very big step too far. I see Mr Bosman nodding now. I think that's important, too. When you look specifically at the effect of the law, when a Dutch couple goes to an island and has a child there, that child is treated differently than a child born from people living on that island. I think you're making a distinction on the basis of origin. Mr Bosman has deleted 'descendants' in his law, but he has also said in the explanatory statement that this really does not mean anything and that he finds it particularly annoying that people take offense at the word 'descendants'. I therefore ask the Bosman what that deletion of 'descendants' means and what it means when he talks about a culture. Does he take that back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u15	I have already indicated that I have stayed as close as possible to the LTU. Mr Sjoerdsma is now deeply offended by the debate on origin. The LTU just says "birth." Speaking of birth, that is a very normal statement and it is accepted by everyone and is simply covered by the treaties. That's not a problem at all. That has nothing to do with it. That's how I put it. I stayed as close to that LTU as I could. I did, because I know how important the people on Aruba, Curaçao and St.Maarten feel that they have a connection with Aruba, Curaçao and St.Maarten for as long as possible. They're talking about country kids. That connection is essential. If this law were to be passed, it would be my ambition to speak of a state law. I'd like to put a few things together. If this law deviates so much from what we have achieved with Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, I do not have that conversation at the table anymore. Then there's the dichotomy, the A- and B-Dutch. Mr Sjoerdsma looks at the Netherlands, but you must look at the Kingdom. Mr Sjoerdsma says that it is wrong that we have a division. There are currently two types of Dutch people in the Kingdom: the inhabitants of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, who are also allowed to settle in the Netherlands, and the inhabitants of the Netherlands, who are not allowed to. Then there is a division. If that is a matter of principle, Mr Sjoerdsma must also mention it. After all, that's the same division.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u16	You are being addressed, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u17	This is an argument which the Council of State has really cut off. Mrs. Gesthuizen just said it very strikingly. What is the purpose of this admission regime for the islands? Because they're small islands with a small society and a small economy. Small groups of Dutch people from the mainland can have a major disruptive effect on society and the economy there. That is a completely different situation. There is also a very different way of dealing with origin than here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u18	This is a little shocking. Mr Sjoerdsma accepts two different types of Dutchmanship. He accepts that the Dutchmanship for Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten is different from that for the Netherlands and that this way we deal with each other in the Kingdom. That's inappropriate. I really don't think that's possible. If we think that there is an indivisible Dutchmanship, that is also part of the Kingdom, of the Statute. That means that the Dutchmanship is for everyone. Someone on Aruba has the same nationality as someone in the Netherlands. If Mr Sjoerdsma says that the Dutchmanship on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten is different from the Dutchmanship in the Netherlands, I think it is wise that he should distance himself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u19	One final reaction. The rest will be picked up in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u20	Indeed, I will take the rest with me in the second term or in other interruptions. Of course, there's a reason why the Council of State doesn't like the bill. There is, of course, a reason why international organisations say that the bill does not relate to international conventions, unlike the current admission regime of the islands. There may be something in that, Mr Bosman. I would challenge you, Mr President, if you would do that today to reflect on it and revise some parts of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u21	Article 24 of the Staff Regulations deals with treaties. Treaties of the Kingdom are treaties for all countries of the Kingdom. For me, it is really unimaginable that people say that the treaty applies to Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, but not to the Netherlands. If Mr Sjoerdsma can show me where these exceptions to the various regulations are, I would be glad to hear them. I'll see them in the second term. I like to hear it, because there's no distinction. For the Statute, a treaty of the Kingdom is a treaty for all. Suppose that international organisations say to me 'your law is not in accordance with the treaties', I like to hear them say that about Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, because they are exactly the same rules. The target may be different, and we'll talk about it in a minute. I think the intention is to make sure it's proportional. Are we going to achieve what we want? After all, that is the discussion. If Mr Sjoerdsma says that it is not legally correct, my answer is that the arrangement of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin is also incorrect, legally speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr Bosman has just begun his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u23	Sure. Mr Bosman has spoken for three and a half minutes and is now eighteen and a half minutes in box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u24	Exactly. I take it that the more fundamental side of the matter is how does it relate to European law? The Commission's contribution is still being discussed. He said in the beginning that making the same arrangement was not his main argument, "for they do it too." I'd like to ask you about that. Mr Bosman did not comment on Mr Sjoerdsma's interruption about the difference between the situation of the Caribbean Netherlands and the Netherlands. The islands are home to 15,000 people. 17 million people live here. Then, of course, the absorption capacity is very different. Can Mr Bosman imagine that, in the case of such a small group, it is a very different situation when people come to the islands without work or income than when it happens the other way around? Would he care to comment on the difference in size?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u25	We are in complete agreement. I totally agree with Mrs Voorthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u26	Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u27	Voortman. Sorry, excuse me, I just lost my way. I was just surprised. We totally agree, because there is a difference, but that is not in the legal process. It is not true that Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten may have that legislation, but the Netherlands, legally speaking, are not, because for the treaties they are identical. There are four countries in the Kingdom: Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands. There is no secondary arrangement in the Staff Regulations. There is no secondary arrangement in the Kingdom. So you come to the very simple fact that a treaty that has been concluded applies to all countries in the Kingdom. So I find it really amazing that all kinds of institutions say: it's against tolerance. I will say: very quickly you must tell Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin to stop. I don't think so. I do not agree with that at all. I think it is very sensible that Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin have these arrangements. But don't come up with the fact that it would be legally forbidden, because that also applies to Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u28	There may be circumstances in which you could say: in this case something can apply to the islands and not to the Netherlands; that is what this is about. We also have European law to deal with, but Mr Bosman has just said that he is going to deal with it in this way. The point is that the absorption capacity is just very different. That then justifies the fact that, with mutual agreement, there is no question of mutual agreement in the bill put forward by Mr Bosman, who can say: we are making an exception. That's how you see the current legislation. Mr Bosman does not comment on this difference in absorption capacity, on the fact that the Caribbean islands can bear less than the Netherlands. I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u29	I was quite right to go into that, because I agree with Mrs Voortman that there is a difference in size. Only the Staff Regulations indicate that each country is entitled to legislate on admission and expulsion. That's just in the Staff Regulations, in Article 3. That applies to every country. If Mrs Voortman could now demonstrate where the Statute states that the Netherlands cannot do so. But that's not true. That doesn't say anything. So it's possible. The Statute is above the Constitution, as Mrs Voortman also knows. In all the treaties we have made exceptions to the country status of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin within the Kingdom, precisely to give all these possibilities. I therefore agree with Mrs Voortman on implementation, but I am not keeping the same story as regards absorption capacity; I am not saying that. My problem is crime. I have great concerns about criminal people who have a huge impact on society. I'd like to do something about that. In fact, I say you're welcome. To people who meet the requirements of employment, and who therefore have an income or study, I do not say: you have to stay away. No, they are still very welcome within this Kingdom. They are very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u30	I think it is very brave of Mr Bosman to come up with a legislative proposal to solve a serious problem. I also hear him say that he actually thinks that a state law should have been made. I would actually like to see that a little bit more worked out, because doesn't that huge disappointment stem from the fact that this cabinet didn't make that state law? As a result, we now have to deal with something that many people incredibly say "can't do," which may have pushed that empire law and the solution farther away from us than we wanted. Mr Bosman says that people will have to prove themselves in the Netherlands. The underlying idea is: we don't assume you're any good, but you're gonna have to prove yourself. There is a crucial difference in this, because that is the basis on which we make an exception, as is already happening on the islands. Does this mean that Mr Bosman is not taking this state law much further away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u31	It is said that the government did not implement the state law, but I have to say that the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin refused to cooperate, simply absolutely, pertinently. With reluctant dogs, catching evil is hares. Then you won't come to a state law. I'm really sorry about that. That's also a big disappointment. My idea is that if this proposal succeeds, I am open to criticism. Then we put things next to each other and say, let's see how we can come up with a rich law. I will come back to that later. I think the state law is important because I do not only regulate it for the Netherlands, but also for Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius. Then I can see in a very different way how travel, work and family opportunities can be arranged in a much simpler way, for example with a sédula or with other legislation. Then we can do business. To this day, no one will ever say, "I'm going to talk to you about a kingdom law." That's unspeakable. During the last IPKO, which took place in the Netherlands last time, Mrs Van Toorenburg was there, I think it was said. You can also hear that in the walkways. We've reported it on a regular basis. I've said it every time. My bill is discussed every time during the IPKO and every time I say that people are welcome to talk, to sit down and to cooperate in a state law. But it won't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr Bosman, we have a public gallery. You use the abbreviation "IPKO." What does it stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u33	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. "IPKO" stands for "Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation." That is the consultation between the four parliaments of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u34	What surprises me a little is that Mr Bosman pretends that the state law cannot, by definition, be implemented if the other countries do not cooperate. It is not a consensual law, for which by definition there must be consensus between all countries. We can make this state law. I am only afraid that it will be much further away from us because of this proposal, which deals with the need to prove itself first in the Netherlands. That's very special.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u35	If you're talking about big guns, that's big guns. It's a law of the Empire. It's a law of the Empire. After a vote in the National Council of Ministers, you're done. Well, that's nice for the interrelationships to talk about passenger traffic. I really want to volunteer, and I want people to join me. I see Mr Sjoerdsma laughing. We must then see how we can take that step. It is bizarre: we have recognised this problem for 20 years, all of us. We see it, we feel it, we notice it in society, but we don't do anything about it. Of course we can push through a state law. That's not a problem. But when you talk about interrelationships, I think: that is a means of power from the Netherlands. I don't want that. I would find it very unwise to use that. My route is precisely through this proposal, if it is adopted. In that context, I am listening to the criticism. If the proposal is not adopted, we are even further away from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u36	Cities like Terneuzen have mega problems. I agree that there are problems. I therefore also believe that a solution must be found. I find it scandalous that everyone puts more effort into defending this law than in solving the problems. We owe it to Terneuzen to make a law that makes it. We shouldn't have some pacifier with which we say to Terneuzen: now we've arranged it nicely for you; it's a strong law. But that same law is then set aside by the first judge. Then we'll fool society. Yeah, of course a rich law that pushes you through is big guns. You should not do that on the basis of "proof you but in the Netherlands," but with the help of the handles indicated by the Council of State, namely with a criminal record. We can do much more! We'll talk about that race story later. But now we say: you come from the islands; prove here that you are good, or we will kick you out again. That's what this law does. And then we think it's gonna bring us a realm law closer than we do when we get the law out of the department drawer. I know it's there; it's all set. That law includes reciprocity, the rules for the free movement of persons and a measure that allows you to act when people do not behave. That's a lot less rude artillery, Mr Bosman. Your proposal is rude, because with that we say: prove yourself in the Netherlands, otherwise you can go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u37	That is special, because that does not even deviate so much from what I have proposed. If you're looking at where we want to get out, which is that people get right into place, it's not about proving it. It's just a simple question. I can use the same argument with regard to Curaçao. Apparently I have to prove myself in Curaçao. That is the same discussion: I have to prove in Curaçao that I meet the demands of Curaçao. I don't think it's wise to use those terms, because I'm just asking a question. We all know that the islands, as prof. Oostindie says, have a low chance in the Netherlands. I can only overcome that by asking that question. Mrs Van Toorenburg states that we can also use other techniques. This was also discussed by the Council of State, and also by the question of whether it should be a criminal record or the principle of the country of residence. That doesn't make any difference. That really is not an improvement on the bill I have here. Nor do I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that this law is being set aside, for example by a judge. It's been looked at carefully. The law is sustainable and enforceable. I think it is special that we have already said in advance that the law is not sustainable, because then we will be using the technique and then we will not have to choose what it is about. If you can argue from the technical point of view by saying that the law is technically incorrect, you do not have to choose whether you find the law in principle a good solution and whether you want that solution. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u38	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u39	The difference between what Mr Bosman is doing today and what I propose lies in the fact that one is feasible and the other is not. The Council of State will never say anything can't be done at all. We can even denaturalise Dutch people, for example, if they join a foreign power and commit terrorist attacks on the Netherlands in another area. So we can always do a lot, but I do not think Mr Bosman wants to make this comparison. The point is, you have to have a purpose by making an exception. All the lawyers, the Council of State and the Meijers Commission lead the way, indicate that this is not possible. They even give what they can. That proposal is in the drawer. That's a state law that makes a hook in public order and a criminal record instead of what we have now, namely "prove you." So it's about the difference between a law that helps Terneuzen and a law that is put aside. That saddens me very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u40	No, even if you use a criminal record, you'll hit everyone. Also, handling a criminal record means that everyone has to pass by to prove that they have a criminal record or no record. Whether you hit a larger population or a smaller population, the Council of State was clear: you still hit everyone, because everyone has to explain whether or not they have a criminal record. That kind of thing isn't an improvement. I don't want to opt for an empire law that I'm pushing through, with all the fighting we'll get really bad on Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. That was also a question for me: "Don't you think this is going to be annoying for the people of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin?'. If there's one thing I can estimate, it's pushing through a rich law that's gonna produce huge, really huge animosity. That is why I was working on this law, and that is why I think it is important to stay as close as possible to the legislation of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, because I think that we should come out together and make it a kingdom law together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u41	As Members have noticed, I have given quite a lot of room for discussion and interruption on matters of principle, and we are finally having a debate here. I now propose, however, that we give the initiator, who has not been able to devote a tenth of his time to his own text, the opportunity to continue and finish his speech. Then we can go back to interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u42	It does not only reflect on all those hardworking people from the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom who have found their way into our country, who study or work here, who do contribute to our society and who have become part of the Netherlands. That is the vast majority, I cannot stress it often enough. I give them the world. I do not deny anyone access to our country because of the place where his or her cradle has stood, but the permanent establishment of groups of disadvantaged people without work or income is of no benefit to anyone; the Antilles does not benefit, they do not and the Netherlands does not. The flow of migrants from the former Netherlands Antilles changed in the 1990s. Until the early 1990s, the former Antilleans mainly came to the Netherlands to study. They were motivated children who spoke fine Dutch but had no money to study in the United States. They, like the Dutch residents living in the Netherlands, often appealed to the study grants and scholarships provided by the Dutch State. From the mid-1990s onwards, more and more underprivileged Antilleans came to the Netherlands. A total of 130,000 Antilleans now live in the Netherlands; that is more than a third of the total population of the former Netherlands Antilles. Most of the young people who moved to the Netherlands in the 1990s came from Curaçao. Especially the Antilleans between 16 and 40 years of age went in search of a better life in the Netherlands. I get that. The migration started because things were bad in the Netherlands Antilles at the time. Unemployment was high, wages and benefits were low and the cost of living was high. The vast majority of immigrants from the former Netherlands Antilles and Aruba have normal work and income. However, some of the young Antillean migrants cause nuisance especially in the cities. It is difficult to trace this last group, because they rarely register on arrival in the Netherlands. Many are taken care of by family or in the community. They do not register in a municipality because it may cause family problems with a benefit or other forms of subsidy. Migrants from the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom sometimes do not have an address in the Netherlands, so they also fail to find work or housing. These Antilleans often commit theft, drug trafficking or prostitution because they have no other means of income. Of the Antillean population living in Amsterdam, one in five faces problems. This also means that four out of five do not cause problems, are building a future and are part of Dutch society. Let me stress that again. However, this group of hard workers too suffers from the behaviour of criminals. This group of hard workers is and remains welcome. I want to take a step with my law to stop crime and at least reduce it. In the first period, many questions have been asked for which I thank you all very much. I have also tabled a letter of amendment in response to the questions. I shall go into some of the suggestions mentioned in the first term. For example, the term 'harmonization' has been changed; we have just talked about this. I've made some technical adjustments. I will go into this in more detail in the answer to the questions. First of all, I would like to mention the context of the Statute. The Statute is the basis of cooperation within the Kingdom. The Statute dates back to 1954, a time of violent changes in the world, in the Netherlands and in the relationship with our former colonies. The Statute is the basis of our Kingdom and is above the Constitution. It describes the interrelations and responsibilities of the countries themselves. The basis of my own initiative proposal is Article 3 (1) F of the Statute: The monitoring of the general rules concerning the admission and broadcasting of Dutch citizens. This is in principle the task of the Kingdom, but it states that each country has the right to make rules on admission and expulsion on and from its own territory. Aruba, Saint Martin and Curaçao have had these rules for as long as the Statute exists. In dealing with the Statute, the Netherlands has expressly not waived this possibility. It could not be, because the Statute is always applicable to all countries of the Kingdom. In addition, an important part of the Statute is Article 24 (1): Agreements with other powers and with international organisations, which affect Aruba, Curaçao or St.Maarten, are submitted simultaneously with the presentation to the States General to the representative body of Aruba, Curaçao respectively St.Maarten. This Article indicates that treaties concluded by the Kingdom apply to all countries in the Kingdom. All countries are therefore covered by the same conventions. It's important to keep this in mind. However, the idea of different interpretations of the Treaties appears in different countries within the Kingdom. The College of Human Rights and the Meijers Committee also show this. I therefore disagree with these various explanations because of Article 24. The Treaties apply to the whole of the Kingdom. It is good to read that the Council of State considers my initiative law possible. The Council of State would like further clarification of my motives and the underlying motivation. That also makes sense if the line at the beginning of my speech is drawn. All countries are covered by the same conventions and therefore have the same rights and obligations. It is a question of whether the basis of my own initiative proposal and its proportionality are such that they relate to the introduction of the restriction of establishment. The basis and proportionality can be derived from the history of the concerns we have expressed as a Chamber over the decades and the amount of money we have spent to improve the situation. Since 1985 there has been talk of the wish of the House of Representatives to strengthen the demands of the people of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, often with varying majorities in the Chamber. In addition, the Dutch initiatives to improve the position in the Netherlands come from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten perhaps too much to mention. The commitment of the Netherlands has been really great, at project level but also when it comes to making funds available. The projects were in the Netherlands but also in Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. If I count just as quickly, I come to 42 projects from 1994 in the Netherlands and 12 in the Caribbean countries; a total investment from the Netherlands of between EUR 700 million and EUR 1 billion. Not nothing happened, but with all that effort we see that the problems remain. If we add all this together, I can only conclude that the objectives cannot be achieved by a different, better way, as requested by the Council of State in its information on 2 December 2014 and that it is now time to adopt a law to make demands to residents of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten at their location in the Netherlands. Following the first term of the Chamber, on which many questions came, among others, from Mr Van Laar, Mrs Voortman and Mrs Van Toorenburg on the basis of the initiative legislative proposal, place of birth, country of residence and/or criminal record, the Second Chamber asked the Council of State for an opinion on these options. This information from the Council of State teaches me a number of things. The Council of State continues to question the usefulness and necessity of an admission regime. I see that differently, but I have already talked about this in detail. I see no alternative to the establishment law, but in the long run it would be nice to implement a joint state law. The use of the concept of a country of residence would not be an improvement in the legislative proposal. Moreover, this concept would not be in line with the criteria used by the Caribbean countries themselves. Applying the law to Dutch people with a criminal record or without a starting qualification is not an improvement in the bill either. These criteria can only be workable if all the Dutch of the overseas territories first submit the data surrounding their criminal record and initial qualification. This isn't gonna do us any good. Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Schouw asked why I put this in an initiative bill and not in an initiative-rich law. I think we've talked about this extensively. I have tried to make my legislative proposal as much as possible similar to the regulations of the countries, taking into account the differences between the Netherlands and the other countries. Hopefully that will make it easier to make a kingdom law in the future. If my bill is adopted, all the countries of the Kingdom will soon have a system that is as similar as possible. Then all we have to do is get together separate arrangements to make it one state law. In order to promote this process, I have included in my legislative proposal that the law will lapse as soon as a state law on the movement of persons between the countries of the Kingdom enters into force. In response to Mr Segers' question on the feasibility of this state law, I say that the adoption of this national law, in my opinion, has a positive effect on the willingness of the Caribbean countries not to participate in a state law on this subject. Colleagues Schouw, Segers, Gesthuizen and Van Toorenburg expressed their concern about the terms of origin and origin, including in relation to discrimination and racism, also because the Meijers Committee and the Human Rights College discussed this. I was pleased to hear what Mr Van der Staaij said about this. He called for a little more sobriety in the debate. Sometimes very big words are used, he said. It is not always conducive to good substantive discussion when the accusations of stigmatisation, racism or discrimination are made directly. I'm not running away from that. "Pedigree" is a neutral concept in private law. It indicates the relationship between parent and child or grandparent and grandchild. This concept also occurs in the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. I would point out that the rules already in place on the islands are de facto based on descent. They literally call it birth there. Their admission requirements do not apply to the Dutch who are born on the islands of Aruba, Bonaire, Curaçao, Saba, Sint-Eustatius and Sint-Maarten and their children. Basically, that's pedigree. The rules apply only to Dutch born on European territory. This distinction is also accepted in law. I refer to the ruling of the Supreme Court in 2000, which has been mentioned in the documents. It dealt with the legal acceptability of the rules governing the establishment of the Caribbean countries in the light of equal treatment. The Hoge Raad explicitly states that the rules of establishment do not distinguish on grounds of race, because the concept of "national descent" does not have the political and legal significance of nationality or nationality, but an ethnographic meaning. I note that the concept of "descendant" in my bill has led to misunderstandings and concern. That is why I have decided to change the concept in the letter of amendment to "obligatory acquisition of Dutch citizenship." That is what I mean by that. I therefore refer to the new article. Mr Gesthuizen also noted that the European Dutch are being punished after committing a legal misstep, but are not being punished for that by a return to their place of origin, while that is going to apply to the Caribbean Dutch. In my opinion, there are no additional penalties because the initial situation is that these people have no right to settle here but have done so. In addition, they have engaged in criminal activities. Then the logical consequence could be return. In addition, this is in line with what Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten do. This is also a matter of reciprocity. Mr Gesthuizen also spoke of 'the idea that the rule of law is vibrated here and that something very dramatic is going on'. "Does the petitioner think this is true?', That's what she's asking. The shocking thing about the rule of law is the intensity and, almost thereafter, the almost elusiveness of this group. They can take the plane to one of the countries and then they're under the radar. This law not only makes it increasingly difficult for these people with criminal activities to stay in the Netherlands, but also allows appropriate measures to be taken if crime is so threatening to the legal order that the court wishes to proceed with expulsion from the Netherlands. So what I want is for us to continue to tackle the problems in the Netherlands. Everyone will have to comply with the laws and regulations we have agreed on in the Netherlands, but I do not want to mop up with the tap open either. This group of criminals with strong ties to the former Antilles should not be renewed every time with opportunityless migrants from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. I refer once again to Professor Oostindie, who said: "The island's arms are unopposed in the Netherlands." With that thought in mind, we must prevent the unopposed from moving to the Netherlands. This is an ambition that cannot be achieved by the Netherlands alone; we also need the other countries, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. It was therefore my preference to regulate the movement of persons in a state law. Unfortunately, the countries refused to talk about such a state law. In doing so, they blocked the possibility of a joint solution. After all, we can achieve much more by means of a joint regulation, a real state law on the movement of persons. Then we can also arrange the passenger traffic between Bonaire, Saba and Statia, with Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. Then the boundaries become less sharp. Then the odds will only increase. It is regrettable to have to conclude that the Caribbean countries are standing in the way of this solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u43	What Mr Bosman is saying is wrong. I'm sorry to say that. There's no blockade, because it's unblockable. It's been a choice. It is a choice that Mr Bosman may be defending, I am not defending, but it has been a choice not to settle it neatly by means of a state law. There's no blockade. This cannot be blocked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u44	That is legally correct, but when we talk about our Caribbean countries, we want to discuss it. There has been quite a critical reaction, such as "what effect does this have on feelings in the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin?" It is therefore only right that we should indicate that the matter should not lead to a very warm Caribbean feeling by means of a state law. Let me put it this way. I'll come to a conclusion. The spokesmen congratulated me on my initiative proposal. I'm so proud of that. Colleagues also know that this is an enormous amount of work. I couldn't have done that job alone. I would therefore like to thank the people who have supported me and criticized me, and have made the law even better: my hard-working personal collaborators Maurice Hoogeveen, Priscilla Boonman and Jarid van de Steeg; the indispensable policy staff Désirée de Groot and Jasper Boon; and my great connection with the Ministry of Justice, Joris Groen. Thanks to their commitment, this law is now in the Chamber for discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u45	I have two questions for Mr Bosman. He argued that the Council of State did not distinguish between the different options mentioned. I think the Council of State is calling the one option directly suspicious, or... discriminatory, and not the other option, for example. Well, there's a difference. Now my second question. Has Mr Bosman ever thought that leaving this law hanging over the market made the solution more difficult? Indeed, in recent years any dialogue has been impossible, partly because the frustration about this law has been so great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u46	Read carefully what the Council of State says: initially it seems to be an improvement, but in the end the effect is absolutely the same. If it ultimately produces the same effect, I would like to stay as close as possible to the legislation of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. That is my intention. I fully agree with Mr Van Laar that there are many different ways of shaping this legislation. However, it is my personal choice and thought to keep the legislation as close as possible to that of Aruba, Curaçao and St.Maarten, and in this way to give substance to the conversation I intend to have later on about the state law, where the four different laws lie next to each other. And "let's hang over the market"? I know I took my time with this. I wanted to look at this carefully and I didn't want to rush. We've asked for some advice. I would have preferred this law to have been dealt with before the summer, but neither did the Chamber's agenda. Eventually, you'll have to do it at this time. So I didn't deliberately leave this hanging over the market. I had absolutely no intention of probleming the consultation. We have been in the discussions together with the various parliaments. Mr Van Laar knows that I have always said that we were very welcome to join, and that any option was possible and could be discussed with me. However, there was no response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u47	I believe that at least many invitations have been made from this Chamber to Mr Bosman to talk, but Mr Bosman has not responded. I do not think he has talked to any party about how the design of this law could be different or better, so that there would be a majority. The problems raised by Mr Bosman are widely recognised, although we may not assume the same percentages. It would have been reasonable to talk to the islands and to us, to see if there could be a law that could count on a majority. Now it seems that Mr Bosman has wanted to make a law that would not make it. I wonder what the purpose of that is. And he's left this hanging over the market for so long, that the proportions are just sour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u48	May I make a point of order, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u49	You can always do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u50	I'd love to be critical, but I don't recognize this criticism. I know that Mr Bosman has tried to talk to everyone, and certainly to me. I spent hours in his room. We've been through all this. I therefore find this criticism unjustified. I just wanted to make this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u51	Of which note, although this was more of a personal fact than a point of order. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People have indeed been spoken to. I've sat at the table with people. Eventually something comes out and you ask yourself, do I want to make that choice? Again, Mr Van Laar's choice is not mine. You can say that I want to get the law through the Dutch parliament. My answer to that is that that is only step one. After all, governance is also forward-looking, so I want to move on: I want to go to that state law. Because there was no state law, and that was my frustration. My idea was that maybe I'm not very good, you know, just to sit down and talk about four laws, which are almost identical. I know what will be said: we will get three equal laws, and the Netherlands will have a much smarter or much better law; so, with all due respect, these macambas know better. Apparently, we're gonna have to keep that story. The closer you are to the story of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, the easier the conversation will be. That's my opinion. I think all options are then possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mrs Van Toorenburg asked why Mr Bosman does not want to regulate it by means of a state law. Mr Bosman indicated that it is not good for the warm feeling in the Caribbean Netherlands if you press it that way. Then how does he think his current route is happening? We are now aware of the criticism of the Caribbean Netherlands. Why would there suddenly be support in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u54	I understand the problem. If you don't have anything to negotiate, Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin will always say: I don't want it, I'm not in, I'm waiting. There's got to be a time when you're gonna find out what we're gonna negotiate and what we're gonna talk about. I totally understand Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. If there's nothing to negotiate, they say, "Come up with an idea, tell me." That's why I'm filing this bill because I want negotiating material. Of course I want to solve the problem first. Let's put that first. The problem has to be solved; I want to address it. However, I am looking further. I understand that we cannot solve it alone; the supply of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin to the islands must also be dealt with. That's what we need to talk about. There is, of course, frustration because the idea exists, perhaps it is wrong to say that there is a difference in the interpretation of the different treaties among the different countries, which creates a different picture. I say, wait a minute, let's put that together nicely, all on the same page, and then have the conversation. Of course there will be frustration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u55	So you do not take away that frustration with the route that Mr Bosman has chosen, because in the meantime, as Mr Van Laar rightly pointed out, you leave that law dangling above the market. If Mr Bosman really wants to do something about the situation of young people without opportunities, is it better to look at it and ensure that people get opportunities? You're not gonna do that by shutting them out, are you? I don't think this will increase your acceptance. So I still don't understand how this route could suddenly lead to much greater acceptance and more agreement than a route through the state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u56	The picture that is sketched, even on the islands sometimes the information is not entirely correct... is that it is a refusal law. There would be control at the border and everyone would be returned. That image gets beaten up, and it's a little emotional. That is why it is good that we discuss the bill and clearly state what it means: everyone is welcome; if you want opportunities, they are really in front of you, but you have to catch them. However, I do have a few questions and those are the same questions that Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin are asking. We do that within the Kingdom. The problems have to be solved on the islands; I fully agree with Mrs Voortman. However, I have also indicated that we have spent nearly one billion on this over the last 20 years. We're really working on it. It's not like nothing's gonna happen. Those are things we have to keep in mind. This law doesn't come out of the sky in the vein of "gosh, let me think of something, because then we've arranged it." No, it's a long process. Many parties in the Chamber have always indicated that we must do something with it. So at some point, you have to do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u57	I think we have had the principled side. It is now a question of feasibility and enforcement. In Article 13 of Mr Bosman's bill, I read for a moment that police officers are allowed to hold people up when they have reason to suspect people that they do not comply with this law and do not have a residence permit. Can the author go into that a little more in depth? What would be a reason or reason to keep people standing? How would these police officers see that people don't comply with this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u58	That article of law offers the opportunity to keep someone standing. There must be, legally speaking, a moment when you can say: there is a problem; I want to keep you on the basis of the law. From my point of view, it is only a question of standing up if someone breaks the law, if the judge finds that there is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u59	I am only asking, because it is not clear to me how one can see from someone's face that this law is being broken. I do not really want to say it, but I shall ask the following question. How does Mr Bosman intend to prevent his law from leading to ethnic profiling? Of course, that's a big risk. Mr Bosman says it is a legal article. Yeah, I think so, but it's a legal article that's gonna allow cops to operate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u60	I'm not worried about that. The core is: what do you want to do with it? It doesn't get you anywhere. The essence is that the problems are addressed at the moment they exist. That's the beauty of this law. I'm talking about the moment criminals commit violence, cross the line. The moment when the judge checks that out is the time to say, "Wait a minute, you're under the law." Then the judge can say one more time: is it such that perhaps there should be talk of re-routing? But not before. I'm not worried about people being held here on the basis of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u61	I'm just trying to figure it out. They are not controlled at the border, they are not kept. This raises the question: does Mr Bosman want his law to be enforced at all? Or is it just symbolic politics? It's one of the two anyway. Somewhere the police have to intervene to enforce this law. When's that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u62	The good thing about enforcement is that it happens when it goes wrong. That's the beauty of it. In fact, Mr Sjoerdsma should be happy about this. He should say: I am very glad that it is. Because it's a surgical device when people are really going overboard, that we think these people are a risk to society. There's no way people are gonna stand up here. You can't do that. Legal rulings have been made on this matter. If people are arrested on the basis of the wrong article of the law, they cannot. So I am not concerned that people are being addressed to the face. Mr. Chairman. That was my first-term answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you very much. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice in his role as advisor to the House of Representatives, but not until I have said that the word'makamba' used by Mr Bosman turns out to be in favour of 'Dutch'. That's what I've been whispering. That for the stenography report!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mr. Chairman. It is a special moment when a member of the House of Representatives not only announces an initiative bill, but also makes and deals fully with it. I congratulate Mr Bosman on that. Of course, the Cabinet appreciates it very much when that work is carried out from the Chamber. The cabinet also endorses the objectives of the legislative proposal in an advisory sense. It makes sense to regulate the location of Dutch people from Caribbean countries. We see that this is linked to criteria that the Caribbean countries themselves also apply. On that side, therefore, there is the question of agreeing to the objectives. The cabinet, of course, also reminds the Chamber of the objections expressed by other parties. I would like to mention the legal objections that have been raised and the relationship between the various countries in the Kingdom which may be involved. These objections, which have also been expressed by others, do not lead to a blockade in the government's view, but rather to an opinion to consider them carefully in the light of the objectives of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u65	I see Mrs Van Toorenburg wants to interrupt. Shall we wait and see if the Secretary of State has any more to say about it, or do you really have a pressing question on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u66	I would like to comment on this point. I thought it would be vague, but so vague! I would like to hear from this cabinet how it weighs the legal objections. I want an opinion from the Cabinet stating that what the Council of State says is not true. It is not true what the Meijers Committee says. Room do this. Advises positive or negative. I don't want a story of "weigh it a little."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u67	These questions were also asked by several Members of Parliament in the first term. I'll answer that, too. I will answer the questions and also give an opinion on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u68	I suggest we wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u69	But I don't understand what the Secretary of State is saying now. He's gonna judge the law when it's passed. I'm assuming this isn't true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u70	No. It is customary that, in the case of legislative proposals, first of all, the Chambers themselves give an opinion on the legislative proposal. The cabinet doesn't necessarily do that in advance. It only makes a final assessment of what it does with the bill when it is adopted. However, the legislative proposal must be adopted first. I will answer the questions first, but we do have a clear opinion on sub-parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u71	For the record, we have asked for a ruling. We want a positive or negative opinion based on the legal argument. I assume the Secretary of State will end his speech with a for or against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u72	The Secretary of State doesn't have a question in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u73	A point of order. I assume that this initiative proposal, as well as other legislative proposals, will be the subject of a decision by the cabinet. I'll take a look at you as chairman, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u74	It is common practice for the cabinet to reach an opinion on legislative proposals, but constitutional innovations are always possible. It may also be that the cabinet says: we think it is the judgment of the Chamber. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u75	As President, I would advise you not to encourage the government to come to a state-law innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u76	I'm not. You asked me a question, and I will answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u77	Let me get this straight. You call it state-law novelties. I would ask you to ensure that the cabinet gives an opinion on this initiative law, as usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u78	Of course, I honor that by sitting here and directing it to the cabinet, but you specifically asked me if it was by definition and so on. But there are always state-law novelties possible. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u79	Mr Schouw was asked at that time whether the proposal directly distinguishes between race or ethnic origin and what its legal implications are. In our view, the bill does not distinguish between race and ethnic origin. Like the admission arrangements, which also exist in Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin, the bill does distinguish between national descent and descent. That distinction is permissible if there is an objective and reasonable justification for it. This requires that the distinction is a proportionate and effective means of achieving the objective pursued and that the objective pursued cannot be achieved by other means. The Court must determine whether these conditions are met in the light of the justification given by the applicant. Mr Van Laar asked about the statement of the Meijers Committee. It has indicated that citizens of the European Union should not be forced to leave the Union. Does that have any implications for the bill? As the Council of State points out, European law does not function in situations which are not of a cross-border nature. Antillean Dutch people who have not exercised the right of free movement cannot derive any right of residence under the EU Treaty. If an Antillean Dutchman is not eligible for a residence permit, he will not be forced to leave the European Union permanently. He may still exercise the right of free movement within the Union. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked for an explanation of the judgment of the Supreme Court of 24 November 2000. In that judgment, the Supreme Court makes a number of important statements. First, the Supreme Court notes that the various countries of the Kingdom must be regarded as individual countries in terms of the right of access, because of the reservation made by the Netherlands at the time. Admission schemes for Dutch people are, in principle, admissible for each of the countries of the Kingdom. Secondly, the Hoge Raad finds that the admission regime of the then Netherlands Antilles did not constitute prohibited discrimination within the meaning of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, because the concept of "national descent" does not have the political and legal significance of nationality or nationality, but an ethnographic meaning. Thirdly, the Hoge Raad considers that there is no objective and reasonable justification for the distinction by origin if the distinction made does not pursue a legitimate objective or if the distinction cannot be regarded as an appropriate means of achieving that objective. In particular, the last point is important in balancing. The cabinet has a cautious attitude towards a final judgment in the weighting of all these interests. Mr Fritsma asked what the cabinet thought of the initiative bill on the return of criminal Antilleans which he had submitted together with his colleague De Graaf. The cabinet considers it premature to ask for the opinion of the cabinet on a legislative proposal the written examination of which is still ongoing. We await the authors, like many others, who will answer the questions of the Chamber with a note in response to the report. We do not yet have a position on this. So much for my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u80	I'm really "stupéfaite"... sorry, I'm not allowed to speak French. I'm really stunned. Surely it is not possible for the cabinet to say: these are a few legal objections and we are giving an explanation of a judgment? Does this mean that the amendment automatically meets the criteria of the judgment? If this is it, because of the cowardice of the cabinet to come to the Chamber with such advice, I don't even need a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u81	I would prefer Mrs Van Toorenburg to speak French instead of the last qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u82	Let me try it again in Dutch. A sentence has also been included in the coalition agreement. I actually expected the Secretary of State to say: there have been some adjustments, fine proposal. What's to stop the Cabinet from doing this? If the cabinet is still holding on to this half-judgment, will it come up with a proposal itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u83	I think I'm missing the surprise. However, in my time as a Member of Parliament, I have not defended any legislative initiative. I think I'm gonna miss the link to what the big fuss is about right now. We support the objectives. The legal objections that have been raised, I think, have been examined one by one. We do not consider them to be such that they should lead to a negative opinion. I am perhaps too reluctant, because I think it is neat that the Chamber, with that information from the cabinet, should first allow this process to take place in the Chamber before we take very formal positions. I have indicated that we support the objectives and that the legal objections in the cabinet's view do not lead to a blockade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u84	In the meantime, I have myself defended five legislative proposals here in the Chamber. I think it's really common for the cabinet to indicate what it's like in here. I now hear the Secretary of State say that the cabinet does not come to a negative verdict. Should I take this in such a way as to give a positive opinion to the cabinet? I'd like a simple yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u85	That weighting is now primarily up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u86	I've been allowed to be in "K" twice. I always find it very chic when a cabinet does not go too far in judgment, but an opinion is very common. That is why I agree with the previous speakers who have said: let us have that opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u87	It is a complicated proposal, which also affects the relationship between the countries within the Kingdom. That is why the cabinet wishes to exercise restraint and allow this process to take place in the Chamber. We support the objectives in any case. You could realize that in several ways. This is one of them. We do not see any legal insurmountableities in this. We are not happy either, so our opinion is the lightest degree of positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u88	It's gonna be a verbal search for what the cabinet thinks. Let me explain "the lightest degree of positive" but simply in such a way that the cabinet does not say: we advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u89	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u90	It's not judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u91	You said you couldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u92	So what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u93	So it's... If I have to deal with a motion, I believe "judge chamber" is the highest. So I do not dissuade it, and Court of Justice seems appropriate to me now that this Chamber is discussing an initiative legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u94	Okay. I will not continue this discussion, but I can only conclude that this Secretary of State obviously does not do one thing, namely to implement the one sentence in the coalition agreement. In fact, on behalf of the cabinet, he has no opinion on Mr Bosman's own-initiative proposal. I think that's important to me to name. This bill puts a lot of pressure on relations within the Kingdom, given the reactions from the island governments and the island parliaments. What the Secretary of State is saying here today, and that is actually: let it go on, but I would rather not have my own stamp on it. I know you are not Minister of Kingdom Relations, but I would ask you to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u95	I think I have given an analysis and a weighting on several sub-parts of the bill. I'm not standing here without an opinion. I have highlighted several aspects of the legislative proposal, and I have also given an opinion on them, in the end also on the whole legislative proposal. The reluctance I have shown in this respect is also part of the reflection, just as Mr Sjoerdsma asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u96	I must confess, however, that I have little problem with it in itself if there is no clear operative part of the government. In an initiative proposal we often encounter this and the House even appreciates restraint on the part of the government. However, it is important to hear a clear conviction from the cabinet on the substantive aspects. We have indeed heard some things about this. I have another question about legal sustainability. Political desirability and legal sustainability are very easy to mix. Does the Secretary of State see any risks in terms of legal sustainability to the bill containing the letter of amendment we received today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u97	If I weigh it, I must, of course, make the reservation that in the individual case the judge is the judge. Some legislative proposals or ideas can be considered in advance: this is never going to make it. I can't say that about this. Looking at the case-law and the judgments on this matter, it will ultimately be a matter of whether the court considers that the increased target outweighs the measures taken. I cannot say in advance from the cabinet that this weighting is not legally sustainable. There is no formal obstacle, not in international treaties, not in European rules, nor in the Statute or in the Constitution, to an admission regime for Antillean Dutch. The Council of State has also noted this. There are certain conditions under which such an arrangement is possible. A distinction is then made by definition. That is not absolutely forbidden; it can be permitted if there are serious reasons for such a distinction. In addition, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten also have an admission regime for European Dutch people. A distinction is also made which is considered permissible for serious reasons. So far, these cases are parallel. The difference lies in the fact that this proposal for an initiative raises another major reason than that underlying the regulations that operate from the islands on European Dutch people. That weighting is not an exact science. You don't have the guarantee that that arrangement will last because she's exactly the same as she's working out from the islands to us. However, I cannot say in advance that the importance of the initiative proposal will not be sufficient for this matter. The government's assessment is that the scheme can be sustainable. Eventually, the judge has to make the final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u98	For the sake of clarity, I would like to quote the coalition agreement: "On the basis of criteria such as the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten themselves, including criminal record and income, we come up with a proposal to regulate the establishment of residents from those countries in the Netherlands." It is unbelievable that the Secretary of State is now simply walking away from his own coalition agreement. Why does he put a line through the coalition agreement he has to implement, for which PvdA and VVD have signed? This is absurd, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u99	There's a question asked about something I don't recognize doing. That's what makes things difficult. It is not useful if different legislative proposals exist side by side. The path of the initiative proposal is one that has long run. It is then elegant to leave that to the Chamber. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u100	How it happened doesn't matter. The point is that it needs to be arranged. Whether it comes through you or through Mr Bosman is irrelevant. You agreed in the coalition agreement that this would be settled. Now you say, "Forget it, Judge Room." That's impossible, isn't it? You're gonna wipe the coalition agreement off the table. Despite all the questions, we obviously know why: the PvdA Group has indicated that it cannot live with this. Say that. Then say: it's a bit difficult, we can't get through it, because the PvdA Group doesn't want it and we bow to that group. Say that, then everyone has clarity. Then it went as well as the criminalisation of illegality: the PvdA wins the battle and the VVD bows to that. But then we'll have some clarity. Then there is no point in running away and turning the clear coalition agreement around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u101	If I come up with a bill myself, I'll ask for the Court's ruling. Fortunately, we do so in this democracy. What groups do, then, they have to determine at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u102	The Secretary of State says that it will have to be considered whether the conditions have been met. There are quite a lot of highly renowned lawyers who state that the conditions are not met, because there are foundations under which this bill cannot bear. Why was there no choice in the cabinet for the neat path of a state law, which lies in the drawer and which can be said on the basis of reciprocity: there is free movement, unless, followed by the construction that is actually already a bit in the government agreement? Why wasn't that chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u103	There is indeed another bill from Minister Hirsch Ballin. That was said with a lot of understatement at the time, with little enthusiasm received in the other countries of the Kingdom. Officially, however, efforts have been made to do so with the other countries. This has not exactly led to an increase in hospitality in the contacts between each other. Finally, it was decided not to pursue this proposal, also because there were other discussions ahead of 10 October 2010. At that time, there was no possibility of reaching agreement with the other countries. Of course you can say: just push it through. But the question is whether that is proper, considering whether the admission arrangements are a matter for the Kingdom. Formal supervision is a matter for the Kingdom and not the imposition of those rules. That's what the Council of State is pointing out. Then you need consensus. A state law doesn't lead to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u104	Last.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u105	There was no need for consensus. Of course there was no dancing on the table, because the Netherlands wanted to offer a solution to the problems. What I find so regrettable is that the cabinet is letting it happen, that we will have a law, that we will tell Terneuzen: now we are going to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u106	This seems more like a second-term thing to me. You can put a question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u107	I'm gonna finish up. However, Terneuzen has no solution to the problem at all. Why did the Secretary of State not ensure that we have a final proposal that is already in place, so that we can solve the problems, and should we do it now with a law that is so critical that it cannot pass the legal test?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u108	That wasn't a final solution. Otherwise, it could have been chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u109	This brings you to the end of your advice to the Chamber and that brings us to the end of the first term. I propose that we proceed immediately with the second term, so that the initiator in the next pause can consider his answer and we can complete everything today. I will be the first to give the floor to Mr Azmani who will speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the author for the comprehensive answer to the many questions raised in connection with this bill and the State Secretary for his opinion. I would also like to thank the author for the attention he has given to this legislative process. At the request of the parties, there is now a second opinion from the Council of State and the applicant has not hesitated to amend its legislative proposal by submitting a letter of amendment. This shows that the petitioner has taken everything out of the box in order to deal with this not undisputed bill with due care. The parties can continue to settle in legal arguments, but in the end I say as a lawyer, weighing everything up, that this is a political issue rather than a legal one. It is a long-term political issue. Do we want to continue to muddle, even in the future, with the Netherlands as a drain for underprivileged or criminal Dutch people from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, or do we want to put a stop to the problems by imposing requirements on people from these parts of our kingdom, equal to the demands they also make on European Dutch people? No, this bill does not prevent the good guys and, yes, it prevents problems such as those in Terneuzen neighbourhoods, but also, for example, in the Holtenbroek district of Zwolle, which are part of the security risk areas, from persisting and we can tackle them. In the past, we have invested many millions in this, but without results. This increases the urgency for these countries to start working on their own in order to give young people a better perspective on the islands. This will benefit everyone, including the people who live here and who come from other countries of the Kingdom. The petitioner also stated it himself, a state law would of course prevail, but if the other countries do not experience pressure that we really mean it once, they will not quickly proceed to the necessary cooperation. In this light, it is good that the applicant has, by letter of amendment, formulated the horizon clause that the present law will expire when the State Act enters into force. If you look at how long we've been running around politics, while many politicians from various parties in this house have already spoken out for regulating this flow of migrants in the past, it's really not too early in 2016. It is proportional, because we have given them time and we have discussed it extensively in this house, after which we have finally come up with a settlement arrangement. In 1954, we already kept open the possibility of introducing rules in the Statute. In 1980, in a motion by Erica Terpstra, the government was asked to consult with the Antilles in order to achieve a regulated migration policy. Several Cabinets have been working on it. We heard that again in the debate today. The Cabinets-Balkenende III and IV have examined possibilities for a state law. However, the countries do not want to cooperate to this day. We can change that. Let us not shy away, as we have done over the past few decades. Let us also, as the House of Representatives, see that we are serious about these problems in both the Netherlands and the other countries within the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u111	Indeed, it is a pity that the other countries in the Kingdom do not want to cooperate in achieving this. Does your coalition partner, the PvdA, want to cooperate? I'm not asking this for nothing, Mr. Chairman. Mr Azmani made it clear in the first term that the coalition agreement is leading, including on this issue. This has been agreed in the coalition agreement. Please clarify: is the coalition agreement still leading, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u112	I think you should address these questions to the spokesman of the Labour Party, not to the spokesperson of the VVD. In any case, I note that the initiator wanted to table this bill before the coalition agreement was reached. I think we're handling that bill here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u113	But Mr Fritsma is asking you his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u114	Yes, and I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u115	And not for nothing, Mr. Chairman. This question was also put to Mr Azmani in the first term. At that time, he made it clear that the coalition agreement is leading with regard to the establishment requirements. If you say something like that in the first term, you may be called upon in the second term. I want a clear answer: is the coalition agreement still leading on this point, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u116	Yes, let us be clear that the coalition agreement is leading on this point. I think Mr Fritsma has received an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u117	So it's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u118	As I said, what was agreed in the coalition agreement is leading. I think we are currently dealing with an initiative by an initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u119	It's a little faint to keep turning around by pointing out things that don't matter. It is a question of establishing requirements for people from Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin. I don't care how. Mr Bosman's initiative law is fine, but the question is: is it going to happen or not? With the coalition agreement, you have raised the expectation that it will happen. So my simple question is: is it going to happen or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u120	As far as I'm concerned, it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u121	"As far as I'm concerned."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u122	Don't mix it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u123	No, we shouldn't, Mr. Chairman. It is very clear and clear what is in the coalition agreement. It is very clear and clear what the VVD wants, namely to set up requirements, rather today than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u124	Well, I guess I'll have to rephrase the question. Does the VVD Group accept it when the PvdA votes against this law? After all, that is above the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u125	Let us be clear that the agreements in the coalition agreement apply. It is up to the Labour Party, on the basis of the agreements we made in the coalition agreement, to consider the extent to which it can accord with Mr Bosman's bill, which is an initiative bill proposed by a member of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mr Azmani said that it was up to the PvdA Group to consider the matter. He agreed with that group that this should continue. It is starting to get a little sad, after the reaction of the Secretary of State, who is also unclear. Now we have the story of Mr Azmani again, which is unclear. In fact, it is quite clear: the PvdA Group does not support the proposal, despite the fact that the signature is under the government agreement in which this point was agreed. The VVD Group seems to just let it happen that after the criminalisation of illegality, under pressure from the PvdA Group, one point simply disappears from the coalition agreement. Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u127	This really is nonsense from Mr Fritsma. He's trying to turn it into a political game and put down some pretty frames. It is up to the author of the bill to deal with the problems that have arisen in the Netherlands in a decent way. It is clear and clear what is at stake. I think we should discuss this with each other in the Chamber, rather than think of political ramifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the author for his answers to the many questions put by the Chamber in the first term and during the interruptions. I welcome the fact that after two and a half years the petitioner has continued his proposal. That requires perseverance. Thank you for that. However, my group has expressed several reservations about this proposal, legal, practical and principled. There are clear legal objections to the distinction between birth and origin. This seems to be contrary to several international conventions, such as the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the European Convention on Human Rights, and the EU Directive against Racial Discrimination. But one can also mention, for example, the contradiction with the EU's right to free movement. My group is not alone in this. These objections were also raised by the Human Rights College, the experts of the Meijers Commission and, not least, the Council of State. I therefore find it striking that, after all the first-term questions, the author has had the wisdom to put the questions to the Council of State, for which thanks, but then does not really do anything with the answers of this High College of State. The Council of State has serious doubts as to whether the distinction according to national origin can be considered justified. The Council of State also has strong doubts as to whether the conditions which the applicant intends to impose are appropriate, necessary and proportionate. Therefore, the Council of State does not consider the distinction by origin to be justified. In view of the importance of this debate, I would like to ask you once again whether the author can respond to it. In its letter of amendment, the author has replaced the term "descendant" with the term "automatically" but the distinction between national origins remains unchanged. Again, does the applicant consider that this is proportionate? I'm here for enforcement. Looks like it's not happening. People can work here without control, live and receive assistance. It is only after a judge is involved that enforcement will begin. It may be difficult for the VVD, but that sounds a bit like tolerance policy. Can Mr Bosman answer that? Let me now turn to the points of principle. In my group's view, this proposal introduces a kind of second-class Dutchhood. My group believes that this division cannot be justified. After Turkish Dutch had to pick up first, the VVD now says: Antillean Dutch, stay out of the Netherlands. This applies only to Antilleans of Antillean descent with Antillean parents, but not to Antilleans with European-Dutch parents. That is very difficult, because these Antillean Dutch are just as much part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and also have a Dutch passport. For D66 this distinction between A-Dutch and B-Dutch is unacceptable. That weighs the hardest. I have no choice but to conclude that this is also the case for the cabinet. The Secretary of State did not wish to discourage this bill and slowly bowed to the lightest possible form of positivity. Does the author consider his own proposal to be justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u129	Mr Sjoerdsma always talks about a division. I think there has also been an interrupting debate with the author. But does it make sense for disadvantaged inhabitants of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin to settle here, when they have no chance of developing and growing here, while they are thus unopposed here? What does that do to the division in society? How does D66 look at the problems that exist in Terneuzen and Zwolle, for example? How does D66 intend to put an end to the problems that have grown over the years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u130	I'll give you two answers to that. I shall begin with something I have just said to Mr Bosman. I agree with the author that this is a difficult phenomenon. The real key to a solution lies, of course, with the island governments, because these young people are leaving because of a lack of perspective. They don't want to leave at all. They're not in the mood for that at all. They want to stay with their families and friends, but they still leave because of a lack of good education and opportunity and perspective on the labour market. Then you can say: that is only the responsibility of the island governments. Mr Bosman might have said that this is the new situation. I think that you can also see whether the Netherlands can do something, for example, to make the international labour market more accessible to the islands, to assist the islands to improve that perspective. As has rightly been said, that will not happen overnight. I would point out to Mr Azmani that this law is not a solution for the disadvantaged young people who are already here. He also has to admit: this law doesn't really do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u131	With all due respect, if you keep the gate open for underprivileged young people...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u132	The gate? They're Dutch!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u133	It's not a mix-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u134	If underprivileged young people from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten can simply take a ticket to the Netherlands, we are all fine with that and ensure that they grow up with a benefit in a certain neighbourhood and come into contact with crime, then those countries do not feel any urgency to, if the problem young people can easily go to the Netherlands, do anything about the perspective and the opportunities for the young people there? I even believe that these young people are even better off there, that there is a better future for them there than when they grow up here in the neighborhoods that have just been mentioned. That is precisely when we talk about division and segregation in society, when we bring in the integration debate. I do not yet hear a solution from D66 on how to prevent these unchuckled young people from growing up here without a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u135	The real sad thing is that the VVD and the initiator present today something that actually means that there will be an A-Nederlanderschap and a B-Nederlanderschap, which they present as a solution for these disadvantaged young people. That's very sad. I was in a radio debate with Mr Bosman this morning. Actually, the VVD doesn't come out so well. In fact, after consulting the Council of State and all the international clubs, the VVD knows that this proposal is not the solution. I would like to give you one thing, Mr Azmani: I share your frustration that this proposal is unfortunately not the solution. It is indeed something we all, I think Chamberwide, want to do about, but something other than what is proposed by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u136	It is maintained that there are A- and B-Dutch, but all we do is what the countries themselves are doing...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u137	Well, that's the proposal!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u138	Mr Sjoerdsma, don't confuse! I call Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These countries themselves make demands for the establishment of European Dutch. The only thing the petitioner does is to make those demands to the Dutch who are from those countries and want to come to the Netherlands. That's all that's gonna happen. I think that's what we call reciprocity. Everyone is free to build a good future here, but it is not everyone who is free to go down the criminal path or just use social services. That is what the establishment requirements are for. One is free to stay here in the first six months and can build a future here. If we take advantage of this, then we will no longer be able to claim benefits and rights in this country. That is what the initiative proposal says. There is no division between A and B, but we prevent problems in the neighborhoods from getting bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u140	Is this your last argument, Mr Azmani, that the islands also have an arrangement? As you know, this has also been discussed extensively in the debate that the Council of State has absolutely shattered. The Council said: small companies, small economies have a different absorption capacity and are not so shock-resistant. I don't think this is the winning and closing argument. I wonder what the PvdA is doing so soon. I hope she would rather turn halfway than go completely astray and decide not to support this bill. We will have to wait and see if Mr Fritsma is right that the coalition agreement on one part is not going through. We're gonna have to see that. I hope that this is the case and I trust that this is the case. I do think that after that, as a Chamber, we should look at how we proceed with this if this law should eventually fall. I would regret that for the author, but I would find that quite right in view of the content of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u141	With that, I have the feeling that you have come at the end of your second term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u142	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u143	Mr. Chairman. In the first term GroenLinks was very critical of this bill. We still are, because the changes made by Mr Bosman have not convinced us. He himself stated in his explanatory statement that it was mainly a word change. The principle that a distinction is made between Caribbean Dutch and Dutch Dutch, remains with this bill. There is therefore a distinction. Mr Bosman says: yes, but I have joined in the wording used by the islands themselves with regard to Dutch people. In doing so, he ignores the difference between the Caribbean islands and "Dutch Netherlands." An admission regime there does not yet justify an admission regime here. He then pretends that this would solve the problem of unemployed Antillean young people, but if they no longer come here, that does not mean that their problems in terms of training and employment have been solved or that they by definition remain on the straight track. Finally, GroenLinks has serious doubts about the feasibility and enforcement of this law. This proposal reminds me of other proposals, such as the restriction of the right to vote for migrants, which only gives people the right to vote after seven years, or the restriction of access to social housing for status holders. Both proposals have been discussed recently and a distinction is made between different people in both proposals. Those laws really give people the feeling that they're not part of it. That's exactly how you create a bigger division instead of solving it. We find that undesirable. That is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u144	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiator very much for his input and for his perseverance to come up with an adjustment of the proposal and to continue the debate on it today. I have already indicated in the first term that the SGP Group also considers this to be a serious proposal for a serious problem and that this should not only be seen as a negative measure. This should also be seen in the total of measures, also of a very positive nature and both here and there, to improve conditions for disadvantaged young people from Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. This does not alter the fact that, when it comes to zooming in on this law, it is clear that the legal margin is very limited and that the political sensitivity is very high, as this morning proved to be very sharp in the debate. That's a tough combination. I think it is important to go back to the point that is perhaps the most important and that is both political and legal, namely the question of proportionality, because there is also a great deal of confusion about what is political and what is right. We have received many negative opinions, including from lawyers. We have also heard the debate in the Chamber about this. I would like to challenge Mr Bosman to address this crucial point of proportionality: is it necessary to propose a law with such a broad scope to address this problem? Does he wish to clarify his arguments on this key question of proportionality? That will help my group to weigh it up. The second and final point concerns the question of why not opt for a state law. I said, and so did the initiator in his reply, that a state law would be preferable. He added, however, that if they did not want to, it would be entirely a matter of pushing down the throat. Isn't the disadvantage of this variant of the law, i.e. not a state law, but a law of only the country of the Netherlands, which you are actually saying: it is about you but without you, also in the formal creation? Will this disadvantage not continue to be attached to this arrangement? Wouldn't it be wiser to initiate the procedure for a state law? I would like to see the initiator shed light on these two important questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u145	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Bosman and the Secretary of State for their first reply. I can be quite brief, because the PVV Group is in favour of the establishment requirements for persons from Curaçao, Saint Martin and Aruba. That is why we will be voting in favour of the legislative proposal, which is an improvement on the current situation. The debate is actually also about the fact that the coalition agreement seems to have struck a line. I have already said that the establishment requirements have been agreed on. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has also signed up for this. It makes the case very strange if that party is going to torpedo that appointment. In view of the contribution of the PvdA Group to the first term, the contribution of the Secretary of State and that of Mr Azmani, it seems that this is the case. Then the VVD has gotten a lot of beeping, because after the criminalisation of illegality, another part of the coalition agreement will be wiped off the table at once. If the VVD Group allows that, that's a weird situation. I hope it doesn't happen. I am waiting to see what the PvdA Group has to say, but I am not positive in the light of the above.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u146	Mr. Chairman. Of course, thank you very much to the author for his reply and to the Secretary of State for the advice of the cabinet. The vast majority of the Antillean Dutch contribute to our country, both in the Dutch part of the Kingdom and on the islands. A valuable contribution, I must say. But there are also problems, both in the Antillean countries of the Kingdom and here. I am therefore pleased that the VVD and the SP are working together with a majority in parliament to solve these problems, for example by tackling criminal and corrupt politicians on different islands. Fortunately, however, I say again, many people on the islands and in the Netherlands are doing well. That is precisely why the SP Group is not enthusiastic about Mr Bosman's proposal. The reason for this is the proportionality and effectiveness of its proposals. I think that we have had enough extensive exchanges of views on this subject in the first term. With the lack of proportionality and effectiveness of the proposals, the legislative proposal seems to me to be too stigmatising at the moment. If the proposal were introduced and implemented in this way, it would do more harm than good. In short, this is not a real solution to the problems if you form one Kingdom together, and we do so together with the Antillean Islands. That is why my group will not vote in favour of this proposal. Despite the good intentions, we find it unacceptable to turn the Antillean Dutch into second-class citizens in this country for five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u147	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the author for the first-term reply and also thank you for the advice of the cabinet. This summer I showed my daughter Janna a picture of her and her best friend almost four years ago. They sat together on a large wooden squirrel at the entrance of her favorite playground. Her eyes lit up and a big smile appeared on her face. She pointed to the picture and she said, "Daddy, look, we're the same." I asked her a little surprised what she meant. She pointed at the picture again and said, "Look, we're both wearing a pink coat." And indeed, they were both wearing a bright pink coat. Kids give us adults, often the right example. I'm telling you about that picture and my daughter's reaction, because this room has to be like my daughter Janna. Because my daughter and her best friend are in many ways the same. They're equally tall, they're equally heavy and sometimes they're both wearing a bright pink coat. Yet an adult would never have pointed to that picture and said that they are the same, because Janna's hair and skin are almost white and her best friend is brown and has black frizzy hair. They're both beautiful kids. They have the greatest fun together and they have beautiful adventures, but they're not the same, despite that pink coat. I want this room to be like my daughter Janna. As she thinks a pink coat is enough to find someone the same, we should consider our red passport sufficient to treat someone the same. In the laws we make, every Dutchman is treated equally in the same way as the Constitution demands of us. I have already indicated in my first term that I would not support Mr Bosman's initiative law unchanged, because his law makes an unjustified distinction between European and Antillean Dutch. The Meijers Committee concludes that the Dutch of Antillean origin are disadvantaged in their freedom of movement and social protection, not only as regards the right to live in the Netherlands, including family reunification, but also as regards the possibilities of deprivation, expulsion and access to social services. In the second letter of amendment, the author has changed a lot, but nothing fundamentally changed. We conclude with the Council of State, the Human Rights College and the Meijers Commission that the distinction made by Mr Bosman in his law between European and Antillean Dutch people is not sufficiently substantiated. Where the legislator wishes to distinguish on the basis of race, national origin or origin, that justification must be heavy and extensive and meet the highest requirements. The serious justifications are lacking. The applicant also failed to provide us with any indication of this in its first reply. At the heart of this is now the same law as in the first term. Now that the law has reached its final form, at least as far as the petitioner is concerned, we can also make our final assessment of that law. This law makes an unjustified distinction between Antillean and European Dutch based on origin. It is therefore a discriminatory law. The PvdA is therefore against this law. We adhere to Article 1 of the Constitution and for us a red Dutch passport is enough. We wish to treat all holders of that passport equally. And we hope that the Chamber will continue to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u148	It's a clear story, but there's one thing I don't get. Why in God's name did the PvdA Group sign a coalition agreement with exactly this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u149	We also had an exchange of views on this in the first period. There's not exactly this point in it. There is another fundamental point. It says that we require the inhabitants of the islands to be established. That's different than judging someone on the basis of origin. Arrival is a very different criterion than main residence. So does the Council of State. It states that, according to the European Convention on Human Rights, if you look at the basis origin, you are immediately in the strongest possible position to make such a law because it is, by definition, suspicious or discriminatory. However, if you look at the base main residence, then that does not apply. That is why we have explicitly put 'inhabitants' in the coalition agreement and have not chosen the basis of Mr Bosman, which is origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u150	Okay, and how are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u151	It is up to the cabinet to make proposals to implement the coalition agreement. If the cabinet comes up with a law based on the citizenship, we'll look into it. But even then... you just said in an interruption that you don't care how that happens, but I do care how that happens. In the first term, I indicated that we have two fundamental objections to this law: a distinction based on origin and the fact that it affects all Antillean Dutch. We have mentioned 10 other objections relating to the content. Some of them have been processed by Mr Bosman, but many of them have not. A law that deals with this issue must meet high standards if it is to be approved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u152	With all due respect, this is the most absurd story I've heard here today. The coalition agreement states literally that this will be settled as the other countries within the Kingdom regulate it. Well, the other countries of the Kingdom have establishment requirements for the Dutch and the government agreement requires the Netherlands to do the same. Mr Van Laar is simply saying: we are not doing it. Then tell me the truth! Then say: we simply do not do this; we have won the battle with the VVD Group, just as we have done with the criminalisation of illegality. Then everyone knows what he's up to. But please don't give me this kind of crap.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u153	Mr Fritsma does not read accurately. The government agreement states that we have the same kind of establishment requirements for all residents. This means that the requirements for establishment can be comparable, but that the basis is another. We're looking at residents. That means that every Dutchman who lives on an island and wants to move to the European Netherlands, goes through exactly the same procedure as any other Dutchman who wants to, whatever he looks like and whatever he descends from. Mr Bosman's proposal does not lead to that. This means that some Dutch people who live on the island do have to go through a procedure and other Dutch people do not. That is the difference in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u154	Of course, no one believes this. Look at what the other countries of the Kingdom are doing. They make demands on European Dutch people. They make demands on Dutch people who live in this country. In doing so, the other countries within the Kingdom, the Dutch of this country, are already treating differently from the Dutch of their own country. That's exactly what needs to be turned around. That is exactly what Mr Bosman is trying to put into effect. Mr Van Laar is always talking about that, but it is the same thing. Then be honest. Say: 'We have signed for this in the coalition agreement was a mistake; we do not do it; put a line through it.'
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u155	You're repeating yourself a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u156	Congratulations on winning that battle. It's too bad the VVD allows it, but don't come up with bullshit stories that just don't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u157	It has been said before, but the argument that we have to do it because other countries are doing it is about the weakest argument that has been put forward here. There are also countries that prohibit religions; neither do we. There are countries that prosecute gay people; neither do we. And we don't want a settlement law based on origin either. The other countries that do have it is up to those countries. By the way, they never made it themselves, but they just inherited it, but that aside. That's up to them. Those laws have been tested in accordance with the same conventions and comply with the same legal requirements that are imposed on all other laws. Those laws stand. It's possible. We believe that this law will not stand. In any case, we do not wish to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u158	Mr Fritsma does, of course, have a point. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has said that it can accept a system of establishment in itself. What effect did the PvdA Group have on that point of the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u159	We have said this in the first place, and the Council of State has been asked for its opinion on this. The applicant chose not to do anything with that opinion. It's a law that oversees all the inhabitants of the islands. Every Dutchman who comes from an island to the European Netherlands will see if he has a criminal record and if he does not have a diploma. If so, certain requirements apply. That is what we proposed in the first term. That's something that could be. We could agree to that. The applicant has chosen not to do so and to pursue its own proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u160	I understand the point made by Mr Van Laar, but on the other hand you can read in the legal responses that it also entails legal risks if it is undifferentiated by making it too broad and covering everyone. How does Mr Van Laar look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u161	That is exactly what we have proposed. We have proposed to narrow it down. Only those who have a criminal record or those who do not have a diploma would be affected by such a settlement scheme. All the other people who want to come from the islands to the European Netherlands will not be affected. This narrows the scope of the law a lot. That's what the Council of State concluded. Then you get, as it were, two phases. The first stage is true for everyone, but that is a very slight review. The location requirements are then only set to a very specific group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the author for leading us through the whole process. It was not for him; let me have said so. However, I think that we are facing a very terrible situation, namely that we want to solve something and we now have something in our hands that is not a solution. Of course, there are problems with Antillean youth. Our Zeeuw rightly indicates that they are violent in Terneuzen. If those problems exist, you want to find a solution to them. Fortunately, there are several possibilities, but they do have to meet certain conditions. If they do not comply, they are not solutions. I do not think there would be a solution if we had had a proper state law, with the criteria and structure to which Mr Van Laar referred. I'm so sorry. It almost seems as if we are shouting out here in the Chamber that we have come up with a solution to a major problem, which ultimately turns out to be a pacifier, a dead sparrow. I see that happen all the time. In this way, everyone gets terribly disappointed in what we, the politicians, do here. I see that there are a number of points in the cabinet. I see that when it is said that you have to meet integration requirements, because otherwise you will not get a residence permit. We keep shouting that, but people then just get a residence permit and it just goes on. You also have to meet all kinds of language requirements, otherwise you will not receive benefits. That is said here with dry eyes, but that also goes on. So it's not true. I find it so horrible that we now have another law and we say that we have come up with a solution, when that law is not a solution, because it just goes on. The CDA thinks that's our honor too much. I really think we should make laws here in the Chamber that we are sure they can pass the legal test, especially when it is difficult and complicated. And yeah, maybe you get into a fight sometimes. That's not crazy at the lawyer's office. But we must always ensure that we have properly arranged it, otherwise we will end up empty-handed. Again, that's our honor too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-4.u163	That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting now. In the suspension, the applicant may consider his replies, which will follow after that suspension.
