ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Due to the Belgian toll 8% more trucks across the A58 between Etten-Leur and Tilburg and 8% more trucks through smaller villages and smaller municipalities such as Baarle-Nassau, Alphen-Chaam, Zundert and many more villages. We went to see for ourselves. Together with Mr Mulder of the VVD, I am the rapporteur for the Belgian toll in the Benelux Parliament. We have been there with Parliament. The feeling that we all had there is now supported by figures. The minister and the provincial leaders used to hide behind the lack of measurements, but now what everyone saw with the naked eye has been substantiated. According to the VID, it is a permanent problem that because of the toll freight traffic chooses cheaper roads from Belgium via the Netherlands. 8% more is a huge problem for a small village. We saw it with our own eyes. It causes dangerous situations. The village roads are not suitable for that. A problem between two countries is now literally being put on the doorstep of smaller municipalities. It is not the first time we have discussed this subject here and not the first time I have asked questions about it. The Minister has always said that he should take action or take a little action. He also said that the Belgians know how we feel about it. However, nothing has happened yet. Rapid action would be taken, but nothing has yet been done. Can the Minister state what has happened so far and why we have not yet seen it at all? I would ask for a detailed plan on this issue. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Is the Minister prepared to carry out an in-depth investigation into the number of lorries crossing the border at the villages and the number of lorries crossing the border via the highways, so that we can better understand and find more targeted solutions? Now each small municipality individually with small surveys has to show that it is busier in the village. This is a country problem. The Minister must take responsibility for this. Is the Minister prepared to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Since 1 April 2016 toll or mileage pricing has been applied in Belgium for trucks over 3.5 tonnes. The measurements indeed show that this leads to an increase in freight traffic. However, if we want to address the Belgian authorities successfully, we need more research to show that connection. After all, there were also problems with the amount of traffic around the A58. Mr Van Helvert has already asked questions about this. Minister Schultz has instructed Rijkswaterstaat to find this out to the bottom and to involve the measurements of the VID, as also mentioned by Mr Van Helvert, at the various border crossing points, together with the difference between the eastern border crossing points and the western border crossing points. From this you could indeed derive a link between the toll in Belgium and the traffic here. What Mr Van Helvert says about the effects in village communities is very dear to me, and also to the cabinet. Think of the situation in Chaam, for example. There have long been concerns about the effect of freight traffic in a very small municipality or, as you should almost say, in a very small community. The solution often also requires customization. A city can never do that alone. It must be done together with the province and, where necessary, with the national government. For example, if you want to regulate access to the main road network via those flashing lights, you need the national government to do so. We are in close contact with both provinces and municipalities. We'd be happy to intensify that contact. Moreover, I can tell you that Minister Schultz is in virtually permanent contact with her Belgian colleague on this subject, to make it clear that the Netherlands is not only following closely the effects of the pricing there for our country, but also has a view on that. That view is well known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thanks for the answer. I would like to make three points. Can't the cabinet see that what's happening here is particularly painful for residents along the border? All trucks are first of all invited by the increase in excise duty on fuel to refuel on the other side of the border and once the tank is full, these loaded trucks pass through the Dutch asphalt through the small villages. Does the Cabinet see that connection? Does the Cabinet see that this has made the situation particularly painful? I come to my second point. Does the cabinet see that these small municipalities drive mainly old Eastern European trucks? We've seen that with the naked eye. Are there any figures of that? The toll is differentiated. The dirtier your truck, the more toll you pay. Most dirty, often Eastern European, trucks drive through these small municipalities. Does the Cabinet recognize that? And if so, what will the cabinet do about it? I come to my third point. Will the Minister inform the Cabinet that this can be taken as a chefsache? On the one hand the Netherlands deepens the Scheldt, so that the boats can better reach the port of Antwerp, but on the other hand the Netherlands gets this back from the Belgians. Can the Prime Minister take into account in bilateral talks with the Belgians that this is not the way in which two countries that both make money from the transit of goods deal with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u4	I think, regardless of the connection with other policies, that if you have concerns about safety and emissions in your village because you want to be able to safely cross with your children to their school, it doesn't matter what else is going on. You don't want all those dirty trucks driving through your village. I think Mr Van Helvert and I are very much in agreement on this. This also applies to Minister Schultz. The question is, however, what is the most effective way to do something about it? It would be the easiest thing to do if Belgium were to stop doing this, but that is not a great opportunity. After all, we have seen that this is in line with European rules. Therefore, it is probably not very likely if we ask them to stop doing so. What else can you do? You will soon come up with a fine-measuring package of measures that you could and, I think, should take. For example, it is about obstructing traffic by means of thresholds, making it unattractive to take certain shortcuts and better regulating the access and disposal of the main road network. These are all things with which we have good experiences in themselves, but we also know two things about which we know. First of all, it is important to have sound research, hence the assignment to Rijkswaterstaat. Let there be no misunderstanding that the measurements as they are and as they develop are also involved. Secondly, appropriate measures must be taken in close consultation between municipalities, provinces and the Empire. If it were more effective to use another ministerial delegation for this purpose, we would not hesitate to do so. The Prime Minister is also very well aware of this dossier, which has also been discussed in the cabinet. But it's not that. There is good and clear contact between the Minister and her Belgian colleague. If we look realistically at what is to be done, most of the profits can be obtained from discouraging this sneak traffic. I very much agree with Mr Van Helvert that it is completely undesirable for old and dirty Eastern European lorries to take the route through the villages in Brabant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u5	It's nice to hear that the Cabinet sympathizes with all these things and wants to take fine-meshed measures. But that was said a while ago. We just don't see anything in front of it; that's the point. The problem in the villages we all mentioned was already there. We went there, it has been addressed, there have been questions about it and the cabinet has given answers. But then it just goes on. What can we do now, so that we can see next week that the cabinet is going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u6	I am glad that Mr Van Helvert points out that we have discussed it before, not with me, but with Minister Schultz. Before the toll was introduced in Belgium, questions were asked about this issue, for example in Chaam. The situation there is not new. Around the A58 traffic has been increasing for a long time. We are now seeing percentages of 8%, and they are causing extra concern. It remains important that you do not decide from The Hague how to solve it locally. It's really gonna have to be in consultation. In fact, the initiative and the lead must be with the municipality itself, both the smaller and the larger municipalities, in connection with the province. There are also provincial roads and therefore the municipality cannot take unilateral measures. I say, on behalf of the Minister, that we will intensify contact with the provinces and the municipalities so that we can take action if possible. The effects of this can then be included in the discussions with Belgian colleagues. In this way, we can step by step ensure that the viability there gets better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. At one point, I wonder if this is the entrance we're looking for. The Minister says that the initiative must lie with the municipalities. I believe that the responsibility for examining figures lies not with all individual municipalities, but with the Minister's own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u8	I very much acknowledge that. That research assignment was also given. Rijkswaterstaat is going to conduct research and involves the information of the VID. However, we know that this will take months. The situation needs to be looked at for a year in order to have good numbers. But don't wait for that. If there is a nuisance now, you can already see what measures are possible. I believe that we understand each other very well in this respect: do not wait and in the meantime order that investigation; that is the responsibility of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u9	I would like to thank the Minister, who is allowed to speak this time about road traffic. The CDA and the VVD have already drawn attention to the way the Belgians deal with pricing. There are proposals to introduce mileage tax at all. The Minister knows the position of the VVD in this regard. But I think we're looking for two things. First of all, can concrete measures be taken to discourage sneak traffic? We should not wait for the municipalities to do so. We really care about road safety. What can we do? Can Rijkswaterstaat directly deploy road inspectors or whatever? Secondly, for the longer term it is about the conversation with the Belgians, but also about the infrastructure with the Belgians. The Belgian government has just announced that it will step up its own road network. Are agreements being made to ensure that we do not have the burden of the Belgians' mileage tax, when they only have the will?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u10	It is very good that Mrs Visser makes a distinction between these two responsibilities. The main road network is a primary responsibility of the cabinet. The same applies to the consultation with Belgian colleagues to ensure that you do not create a problem on the one hand because of an increase. That conversation's on. The Minister has made it very clear how the Netherlands feels about the effects of the measures there. I would add that they have done so in accordance with European rules. In itself, therefore, there is no legal objection to this. If you still want to draw more attention to the negative effects here, it is important that the research of Rijkswaterstaat is there. Then you not only have the measurements of the VID to which reference was made, but then you can also show that it has to do with the measures in Belgium. On the second point, I made a commitment to Mr Van Helvert. There are contacts with the province and the various municipalities. You have three levels of authority there. The municipality can put down a traffic threshold in a street, the province goes over the provincial road and the main road network and regulating the drainage and supply is with us and with Rijkswaterstaat. As far as the latter is concerned, the commitment is that we do not have to wait for research to see how we can contribute to improving road safety, but also to improving the quality of life in these municipalities and villages. That commitment stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u11	The negative effects of the Belgian measures in the Netherlands are discussed. However, the Belgians do this because of road safety, public health and the climate. Should we not be much more consistent with the positive effects of the Belgian measures and consider harmonising our system? Then we'll be out of trouble right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u12	I understand that very well, but we are not talking about what the Netherlands could do, but simply about the fact that there is a fear that the dirtier trucks in particular will run over Brabant. There is every reason to take that fear seriously, because that is extremely undesirable. They often turn around a kilometer or 50 extra. Can you check, if it's worth driving 50 kilometers, what that costs in terms of fuel, labor and extra traffic? I don't think anyone wants that. You can't separate this from the effects on local living in those smaller communities in Brabant, where people also want to take their children safely to school. We are not in favour of this. We cannot blame the Belgians for not having done so in accordance with the rules, but at least we want to prevent this traffic going through those small routes. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you.
