ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	Welcome to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We've had a good AO on emergency aid. This is urgent, because there is a lot going on in the world: 60 million refugees and displaced persons. There is also a group in the no-man's-land between Jordan and Syria. Can the Minister state the state of play on this matter? For those people the basic needs are lacking, they are difficult to reach by the NGOs, so I put that question to the Minister. I'd like to file the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Relief Alliance budget is only EUR 7.5 million for the rest of 2016 and 2017;]] [[noting that the midterm evaluation shows that the Dutch Relief Alliance is an efficient funding channel and is in line with the government's policy to provide emergency assistance as efficiently as possible;]] [[Considering that the Court considers it desirable to continue the Dutch Relief Alliance as a long-term funding channel within the humanitarian aid policy (Motion Voordewind et al., 32605, No. 178);]] [[Considering that the Dutch Relief Alliance's emergency services must plan their activities far ahead and that the continuity of emergency aid in affected areas will be compromised if the Dutch Relief Alliance is only given financial clarity when the budget is published;]] [[whereas humanitarian needs are expected to be at least as high in the coming years as in 2015 and 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to make available a similar budget for the Dutch Relief Alliance for 2017 as for 2015 and 2016 and to clarify this as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Laar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32605-185]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	I agree with what Mr Voordewind has read, but is this not some kind of amendment? Aren't we taking an advance on what we're all supposed to do in the fall?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	The motion is intended as a kind of reminder, or as a back-up for the Minister, who himself set up this fund. She herself is enthusiastic about the fund. It would therefore be a good signal to the organisations that the fund will be continued in 2017 in accordance with the adopted motion in the Chamber. This requires clarification from the Chamber and the Minister that the fund will still exist next year, given the plans that the organisations will already have to make for next year. It is therefore a kind of 'direction' to the budget and a kind of encouragement to clarify it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	You have 16 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. The world around us is on fire. Conflicts and natural disasters call for emergency aid. The Netherlands has contributed to this in recent years by the Dutch Relief Fund and the Dutch Relief Alliance. As a CDA, we attach importance to the efficient and effective use of these emergency funds, which are brought together with taxpayers' money. As the Minister himself has pointed out, both sides have enjoyed this form of work. That is why, in February, together with the Christian Union, we tabled a motion to ask the Minister for Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade to continue this process and funding for a long time. In general consultation, the Minister, after our conviction, was not yet able to clarify how she is actually going to implement this motion, while it is important for continuity that it becomes clear as soon as possible. That is why I ask the Minister once again: when are you going to clarify to the Chamber and the emergency services about the continuation of this type of emergency aid? That is what we think is very important. We'd have liked to have signed with you, too. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the worrying situation of the many refugees in the no-man's-land near Jordan. These are people who have to fear between the different fires for their lives because of the conflict and hunger. Concerns are high, as are the concerns of the CDA Group. We would like to hear from the Minister what the current state of affairs is and how the international community can react together and what role the Minister sees for herself. We hope, of course, that the Minister will carry out the motion by Mr Van Laar and Mr Voordewind, which has just been tabled. We will wholeheartedly support it, because it is important that we continue it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. I almost brought an earthquake motion, but it's for the next debate. I do not need to repeat the importance of emergency aid. I have two motions. I hope the Minister can see them as support. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Development Cooperation and Policy Review Inspection indicates that there is a need to recognise the efficiency of emergency aid spending through the United Nations, inter alia due to the high transaction costs involved in sub-contracting;]] [[Calls on the Government to use the resources on the basis of effectiveness and efficiency and to launch an independent follow-up study into which investment channel is best suited and how to further improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the humanitarian sector;]] [[calls on the Government to further indicate in the 2017 budget as precisely as possible why emergency aid is being spent through the United Nations, through the Dutch Relief Alliance or through other possible actors, to underpin the expected efficiency and effectiveness of this channel choice and to return to the 2018 Accountability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the World Humanitarian Summit has set many priorities, but it is all paper for the time being;]] [[Considers that, unfortunately, emergency aid has become structural in nature and therefore requires more than sending blankets and medicines after a catastrophic event;]] [[calls on the government, expertise in knowledge institutions, the Dutch Relief Alliance and others to mobilise them in such a way that the use of the tool "emergency aid" is lifted to a higher, more comprehensive and more human-oriented plan and the effectiveness of our efforts is not only measured but also shared with the Dutch population,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32605-187]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32605-188]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. First, I will deal with the situation in the Berm, the no-man's-land near Jordan. According to some, this zone is in Jordan. In doing so, I immediately reflect part of the problem. It is an area on which Jordan has a great deal of security concerns. The fact that this is not unjustified is demonstrated by the fact that there has been an attack there recently. The refugees have been trapped there for a long time. The Netherlands has been working since the beginning to improve the situation of these refugees there. This was done on the one hand by advocating humanitarian access at the Jordan counterparts. Minister Koenders and I have argued for this. In the conversation that Prime Minister Rutte and I had with the King of Jordan, we also raised this issue and, on the other hand, we offered help from the Netherlands in addressing these security concerns. I say again that they are not imaginary, witness the attack. Yesterday I spoke with my colleague in office from Jordan, Minister Fakhoury, about the issue. In part at the request of the Netherlands and fortunately also at the insistence of others, food aid has been needed again since 30 June. That aid was shut down in the days following that attack. We continue to draw Jordan's attention to the situation and also cooperate with the UNHCR. In recent months, 20,000 people have been taken from the Berm to Azraq refugee camp. This was done, among other things, under pressure from the international community and certainly under pressure from President Obama. He and Secretary of State Kerry have direct contact with the Jordans. I am not going to say here that the situation has improved. All I'm saying is that there has been since June 30th. It is also important to ensure that aid is given to the refugees, that international pressure is maintained and that we really understand the security concerns of the Jordans. Analyzers have been done to find out who's in that zone. This shows that sometimes they are defenceless refugees, but it also shows that there are IS-sympathizers among them. You cannot blame Jordan, which takes in so many refugees, for looking at these security issues as well. The Netherlands has also offered to develop, together with the United Kingdom, a project to train the border guard on the Jordan side, so that, on the one hand, they are better able to facilitate this assistance and, on the other hand, they are better able to monitor the security situation. So this is a matter that has our full attention now, and it will continue to be so. My Jordanan colleague, Fakhoury, is also taking this up with his colleagues in the cabinet. In doing so, we hope that humanitarian access will at least be guaranteed and that the most vulnerable people can be brought from that Berm to safer places. As far as we are concerned, these safer places are mainly refugee camps in Jordan. Four motions have been tabled. The motion in part No. 185 of the Christian Union relates to the survival of the Dutch Relief Alliance. The debate between Mr Voordewind and Mr Smaling already referred to the budget debate in November. I hear that many Members of Parliament are sympathetic to this motion, but we are indeed discussing this kind of thing in the budget debate in November. Then there's plenty of time to discuss things. My request to Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Laar is therefore to hold the motion. Otherwise, there is nothing left for me but to discourage the motion and I can imagine that we would rather not see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	I have already indicated in my speech that these NGOs are waiting for clarity. They can't wait until November. As of 1 January, they will have to continue their projects. If I hold the motion, it could be considered mustard after the meal. It's really some kind of signal from the Chamber to the Minister. I therefore say to her that she must see this motion as support and ask her to at least leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u10	I would love to do that, but we have to take responsibility for what we say here. "Judge Chamber" would mean that I would take action now, and I simply cannot undertake to do so. My request is therefore: hold the motion. These organisations are used to dealing flexibly with financing needs. An additional amount is reserved for 2017 which we can handle flexibly. I'd be happy to say so. I really want to argue that we should look at it in the whole of the budget debate. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. Perhaps in abundance: I share the concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u11	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u12	I also have a question on this point. In the middle of September, the budget will come to the Chamber. Is it possible for us to bring this item out of the budget so that we can discuss it at the end of September? Otherwise, it will take a long time for November to come before we discuss this subject again. It is very difficult for the organisations to regulate everything in a good way. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u13	I hate to say no to Mrs Mulder, but I am going to say that now. I'm trying to wrap it a little nicely. My plea is: let us deal with it in conjunction with all the other issues that undoubtedly arise around the budget. I would like to await the official report as part of the evaluation of this instrument. From what I've heard, the first signs are positive. It seems to me that it is a good idea to have this discussion in the context of'measuring is knowing'. We all appreciate'measuring is knowing' so that we can also argue about the debate. I would really like to call for it to be seen in conjunction with the rest of the budget. Again, especially in the field of emergency aid, organisations are used to being flexible. For my part, I am also willing to be flexible with the remaining amount for 2017, if necessary for the organisations. I come to Mr Voordewind's second motion. 186. It is not the day of Mr Voordewind and I, I believe. I would advise against this motion. We have already talked about the pressure on the budget of the costs of first-year asylum reception; there is no misunderstanding about that. Last year or the year before, the Slob/Samsom motion was adopted, which sets out how to deal with these costs, while ensuring that additional cuts are made. That motion is being carried out every day, so to speak. I see no reason to change the OECD/DAC criteria we use. At the same time, the Slob/Samsom motion is always on the retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u14	If I can understand the Minister that she considers the Slob/Samsom motion to be applicable to the forthcoming budget and will do everything in my power to keep the extra costs for first-year asylum reception outside the budget, at least not to the detriment of the current programmes, then I am prepared to hold on to my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u15	My understanding of a motion is that it applies until the petitioner says "stop it" or until the situation has changed so that the motion is no longer applicable. That is not the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u16	That's why the motion was withdrawn? Hold on, I hear Mr Voordewind say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u17	I come to Mr Smaling's motions. We too have had happy days, Mr Smaling and I. What he's proposing, I'm not gonna embrace now. His first motion, in part No. 187, it's about the IOB's report. The recommendations are clear. We have previously exchanged views that we are going to carry it out. That's what we're doing. The way we report on the results meets that need. In the context of the report on results, we are also going to indicate what we have achieved with the use of financial resources for emergency aid. In fact, therefore, the motion is superfluous and I would advise against it. The same goes for the next motion. Mr Smaling says in that: make sure that emergency aid is taken to a higher level. That's what we do. Mr Smaling is right that this is necessary. That also makes the motion superfluous, because we have exchanged it before. In my memory, we have also adopted motions for resolutions on this subject. So this is what we do. At the request of the Chamber, I am more precise in my judgment than before, because if it is not necessary, it is unnecessary. I dissuade her, but with this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u18	Then I will take both motions and follow up over the months on how it develops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u19	At the request of Mr Smaling, I propose his motions (32605, Nos. 187 and 188). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u20	I've been watching my count, but I'll do that with those motions in the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you. There is one more motion that will be put to the vote. That's the first motion. We shall vote on this tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon meeting.
