ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u1	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u2	Madam President. I wish I could summarize it as briefly as you can, but that is a little more difficult for me. May I begin by complimenting Mrs. Klip on her maiden speech? It's wonderful to be able to tell Tanja Klip now that she's making her maiden speech. It was a solid story, as we expected from her. I would like to congratulate her on her membership of this Chamber. I wish her a lot of beautiful years and lots of beautiful summers between the lemons. We have a complicated matter to discuss. Three laws put together, overlap and have come together in a rather special order. We are dealing with a licensing system that is anything but easy and quite complicated. I'll try to tear that apart in the course of my story where it's necessary. We are also dealing with the many actors involved in the area of Groningen that we are talking about. That is understandable, because there is a major social problem in Groningen that has arisen over decades. Basically, we have benefited from natural gas extraction throughout the country and its disadvantages are concentrated in Groningen. This has become clear in recent years. We are now doing justice to the people of Groningen. I've been working on it in every possible way for four years now, with conviction. I think that's what people should expect from me. We've come a long way, but we're not done. These legal changes will help, but we will be working together for years to do what is necessary for Groningen and the people in Groningen. I will reply to the contributions of the spokesmen following a brief introduction, with a few technical comments. I will focus on the transition to renewable energy and the gas building. I also deal with the damage handling, the reinforcement and other things that play above ground. Then I'll go into the legal evidence we used to call "reversion of the burden of proof." Then I come to the licensing procedure, so it becomes really complicated. Finally, I would like to deal with a few other points. There are three legislative proposals on the table, firstly the offshore safety bill. That is actually a very simple legislative proposal that has been complicated by the fact that a number of amendments have been tabled on very different subjects. Secondly, it concerns the safety and direction bill. That bill is an elaboration of the valuable recommendations on Groningen that we have received from the Security Research Council. The third bill concerns the Evidence Presumed Gas extraction Act Groningen, where we made changes to the offshore security bill and immediately shaped the evidence suspicions in a manner consistent with what has been advised by the Council of State. The three amendments to the Mining Act that are now under discussion have a long and moving history, as Mrs Klip, Mr Flierman and Mrs Vos have said. We will now try to deal with each other as best we can. I'll deal with the offshore security bill first. It's been in the Chamber since April 2015. The legislative proposal aims to implement a European Union directive. That Directive lays down additional rules on the safety of workers working in the North Sea, following a major incident in the Gulf of Mexico. Those additional rules should include reporting on security policy. These reports also refer to the protection of the environment. That protection must take place if we are to win at sea. I've decided to extend those rules to land. Mr Kuiper was right to ask whether other countries have extended these directives to countries. That is not the case. As far as is known, only the Netherlands has done so. I think it is logical that when you put people to work in the North Sea, you want to monitor the environment and safety and set rules for it. The same rules should apply on land. I have therefore moved on to land to ensure that there is one uniform whole for the extraction in the Netherlands at sea and on land and what is going on there with regard to the safety of workers and the risks to the environment. Mr Kuiper asked about the consequences of the Brexit. I can't see it right now. These consequences are being mapped out. In the United Kingdom, the implementation of the directive has been somewhat less difficult; that was already the case there in 2015. It is part of the legislation in the United Kingdom. I find it difficult to imagine that if the Brexit is implemented in the near future, those provisions will be removed from the law. I don't think that's what I'm expecting. I have not received any signals that something like this could be happening in the United Kingdom. Mr Kuiper asked whether the Brexit affected our safety regime in the North Sea. That is not the case. We are implementing this directive. We make sure it works on our part of the North Sea. The Brexit has no influence on that. Mr Kuiper also asked about the consequences of the fisheries directives. They have not been discussed. It's about the safety of mining operations. I implemented that directive one-on-one. Fishing has not been in sight and has not been consulted. On the second legislative proposal on the strengthening of security interests in mining and control of search, extraction and storage permits, I will go into further details later. That bill contains a number of changes based on the recommendations made by the Research Council for Security with regard to Groningen. An important recommendation was that citizens' security should be given greater attention in decision-making. Of course, for me, the safety of the inhabitants of Groningen is paramount. We have accepted that recommendation, as recommended by the Security Research Council. In addition, the Research Council recommended that the citizen's perspective be taken more into account in decision-making and that other public authorities be given a role in that decision-making. In addition, the Research Council recommended strengthening the independence of State supervision of the Mines. That is also what we have done. Mr Verheijen asked for a vision on the further separation of the responsibilities of the government as a licence holder, competent authority for the extraction plan, client and supervisor in the role of the State Inspectorate, and owner of the shareholder position within the gas building. He asked for a better balance between security interests, gas extraction and financial importance. We must be aware that the situation in Groningen started in the 1950s, especially since the 1960s. For many decades, the rules around the gas building have worked and functioned. We are now in the phase-out phase of the Groningen field. We must realise this, also in the light of the life cycle phase in which this field is located, when we talk about further changes that we need to make. With the present bill, I will ensure that the independent position of the SodM is further strengthened. In practice, there were no problems in this respect. It's important to note that. I didn't want to influence SodM in his independent attitude. Nor do I have any indication that my predecessors wanted to do so. Materially there was no need, but that does not mean that it is formally not wise to make improvements on this point, as the Safety Research Council has also advised. That is what we have done. I will come back to that later. The authorisation itself lies with the Ministry. SodM advises on the permit application at my request, but then I have to make my own assessment. I have to do the same with regard to the assessment of the extraction plans. It seems to me very useful that one minister should be responsible for that whole, so that he can be addressed by the First Chamber and colleagues on the other side of the Binnenhof. SodM is completely independent in advising the Minister. Once the licences have been issued, the Minister may intervene if those licences are not complied with. It seems to me that in this way we have a fine separation between, on the one hand, licensing, which is carried out under my responsibility in the Ministry, and, on the other hand, supervision and enforcement. The tasks of the SodM are clearly defined in the legislative proposal. This means that some tasks that are still carried out by SodM in my order are assigned to SodM by law. Moreover, under the law, tasks are also entrusted directly to the Inspector-General of Mines. This means that both SodM and the Inspector-General of Mines, who is in charge of SodM, see their own position further strengthened. The possibilities for the Minister to give instructions to the Inspector-General of Mines are limited. I've never done that, but now I can't give any more clues as to how SodM conducts research. It has also been established that the findings and assessments of SodM can be reported unchanged. As I said, this was already the practice, but now we have committed it. So that means a strengthening of SodM's position. I believe that on the basis of this bill, it is now ensured in all circumstances that SodM can function independently. In addition, ministerial responsibility remains fully in place. That is very important for the Chamber, in order to be able to control and address the whole process and everything that is happening in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u3	In view of what the Council of State has said, my question was as follows. If the government also carries out market activities or owns sales, resale and supply within the gas building, shouldn't the consideration be to turn the inspection into a ZBO, as has been the case with other supervisory authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u4	Not all inspections are a zbo. This applies to a single inspection, but not to other inspections. What we have arranged for SodM, the current practice and what we now legally lay down, offers a whole with which SodM's position, also compared to other supervisors, is strong. Given that in practice, where there are a lot of checks-and-balances, there are no problems and that this is also laid down by law, in my opinion we have arranged the matter in such a way that there would be no improvement by choosing the ZBO form. That is why, also in view of the general policy with regard to ZBOs, no more zbos than is necessary that we have not done so. It is very good that it is done this way, I think, because it guarantees the independence of SodM, while maintaining the responsibility of the ruler, who can be held accountable to the Chamber. There can be no further misunderstanding. I'm accessible to the Chamber at all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u5	Still, to the ownership role within the gas building. The Minister writes that he is studying it more closely and that he wants to come forward with proposals on this matter. I understand that I am now asking a complex and also financially responsible question, which needs to be looked at carefully, but would the Minister still like to address the question of how this relates to ownership?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u6	Mr Verheijen means the ownership of the gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u7	From EBN.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u8	EBN is a State participation. We could have been directly in the gas building. We didn't have to use EBN for that. It could also have been done directly by the government together with other parties, the NAM, who is working there, GasTerra, the Gasunie.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the time, we chose to set up EBN, to gather expertise in it and to give it an independent role. EBN is 100% owned by the Empire and therefore also works under my responsibility. But it's an organization where you can gather specific expertise and play a constructive role. That's what was chosen at the time. The question I am now faced with is whether I want to make major changes in the aftermath of the gas extraction in Groningen. If you're making major changes in something that's been going on for 50 or 60 years, where it's big amounts and you're dealing with parties like Shell and Exxon, you can't just set up a conversation. These are things that specialist lawyers think deeply about and advise about, in which positions are defended and interests recognised and defended. I need to see if an improvement can be made for us and ultimately an improvement for Groningen. Those conversations are going on right now. We'll see what comes out of it. EBN itself is an instance that is there. In practice, I can work well with that, especially because the shareholdership lies with the Empire and I have the opportunity to let EBN do what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u9	Mr Verheijen, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u10	The minister says he's giving the inspection limited orders. The State owns EBN. There's at least tension there. I assume the Minister understands that, too. If EBN is placed in a retreating movement outside the gas building, this could lead to the lifting of that tension, but I do not hear the Minister making a clear statement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u11	Do I now hear Mr Verheij say that I am giving the inspection he is referring to the State surveillance of the Mines Agency?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u12	No, I said the Minister's orders were limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u13	Excuse me, Madam President. I ask Mr Verheijen to whom I give limited orders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u14	The Minister gives limited orders to the SodM. There's a work plan, isn't there? There's a budget and there's an appointment...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u15	I am responsible for ensuring that the SodM has the means to do its job properly. I do not say to the SodM what it should advise, how it should do its job, what expertise it should attract, how it should report to the Chamber and how it should set up its opinions. None of that is on the table. I am not doing anything about the content of the SodM. I'm just making sure that the equipment is able to do its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u16	I'll come back to the gas building. The Minister says it has grown over time. We now see the disadvantages of this. He also says that he is discussing whether and how he intends to adjust it in favour of an improvement in the gas problem in Groningen. This is how I summarize the Minister's words. At the same time, the design of the gas building can have consequences for the transition from fossil to sustainable. That's why the facility has its drawbacks. What is the Minister's commitment to this? That it's precarious, we all understand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u17	It hasn't grown. At the time, the gas building was so furnished. My predecessors then worked on this for decades. It has been arranged, among other things, that the ownership of the gas in Groningen lies with NAM. So NAM owns that gas. It has also been arranged that the vast majority of the proceeds will benefit the Empire. It has been arranged that there are certain partnerships, including EBN. So that's all taken care of. When I look at it this way, I have to say that it is not a whole where I would have come up immediately if I had to fill it out from white paper. I could also imagine something else. The question is, if I'm going to strive for something else or work on something else, eventually I'm going to do well for the people in Groningen and for the Empire. After all, I have to stand up for their interests. We are now looking in the conversations at how the other side thinks about that. I bring in my own views and then we consider whether we can agree on an improvement. Then I must judge whether it is an improvement for the people in Groningen and for the Empire. I don't know what's coming out. I do know that the conversations have begun now and that they are complicated conversations. It is about a situation that has existed for a long time and which I believe is not financially bad for the Empire. It's about the amount of gas that's being extracted and everything that's going on around it. I think I also have the powers I need. It's just a less transparent construction. I think transparent constructions are necessary if the government is involved. As far as I am concerned, the consultation on the gas building is also aimed at making it as transparent as possible for anyone who is interested in it and who wants to have an opinion on it. Mr. Chairman. I was at the point of the divorce that Mr Verheijen was talking about. In order to give a more prominent place to the citizen's perspective, opportunities for participation and advisory rights are extended. We are doing so by extending the grounds for review and by also balancing mining permits with respect to the safety of residents, nature and the environment. There are several permits. You have an APB. You have the notification that follows. You have a mining permit and a extraction plan. The environmental permit is dealt with once or twice. All this business. It is important that, whenever necessary, the importance of nature and the environment and the safety of the people living around are taken into account, and that this is also done from the citizen's perspective. In order to fill this in as well as possible, I have put forward concrete proposals in this legislative proposal, with the aim of ensuring that we also do justice to the recommendations we have received from the Security Research Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u18	I have a specific question about the exploration permit. I think that's the same as the BOLO. The EU Mining Directive lays down specific requirements for participation. The Minister himself wrote in the explanatory memorandum to the bill that this means that an extensive preparation procedure is needed. But as far as I can see, the exploration permit doesn't require an extra duty. Participation in, for example, the environmental component is not really covered. The Minister said that environmental testing is not at all covered by an exploration permit. How is he going to foresee that this review will take place? Would it not be appropriate, at the very least, to impose an environmental impact assessment obligation on exploration facilities in order to provide for what is required by the European directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u19	I think it is particularly important to ensure that extraction permits are subject to an M.E.R. procedure. An investigative licence is only a question of whether there is anything eligible for extraction. If you go to extraction, there are all kinds of activities around it, not only to realize the necessary installation but also to allow extraction to take place for a number of years. I think you should concentrate on the environmental impact assessment. It seems to me that it would be useful to look at the environmental aspects in the search permit. I shall come back to that later when I respond to what Mr Kuiper has said. The drilling is already subject to a reporting obligation. You have an APB. Then you want to use that and you want to drill. You can arrange that now by reporting. A reporting obligation is now enough. We're gonna scrap that, and we're gonna get an environmental permit instead. This environmental permit also looks at all aspects, including the environment and nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u20	I fully agree with the Minister. Of course, in all these other phases, especially in the mining process, nature and the environment must be an important touchstone. But my question is specifically about the exploration permit. There is no "e.g. obligation" because it is often not about very large quantities. The research concerns the question of whether there is anything in that place. The disadvantage, however, is that there is only drilled at that spot. No alternatives are being investigated. As far as I am well informed, it is precisely in the European directive that there should be an extensive preparation procedure. This means that you have to compare multiple alternatives and see which alternative will cause the least damage to nature and the environment. I do not think the Minister has provided for this in his bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u21	We're maintaining a very complex of permits. We'll start with a search warrant, with all the participation that goes with it. The next step is the notification requirement for drilling, but that is what we are now making an environmental permit of, again with all the possibilities for participation. A mining permit is then required. After that, a extraction plan is needed to determine how it will be won. In order to determine exactly where the winning is going to take place and under what conditions, another environmental permit is needed. It is a system of five licences which must be completed in succession. With this package of permits, supplemented by this bill, we are more than complying with what is contained in the relevant European directives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u22	There's a lot to say about this. I have specifically removed the issue of the exploration permit because it can be clearly stated in that context that, since no alternatives are being investigated and only one place is being looked at, a permit is being granted for this purpose, at least one m.e.r. obligation must be required to force the examination of more alternatives. Does the Minister really think that he is complying with the European directive if he does not investigate more sites and organise extensive participation on the subject of the exploration permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u23	Yes, I am convinced that I am complying with the relevant European directive on this point. You want to know if there's gas in the ground somewhere. Let us take gas as an example, although it can also be about other substances. You want to know if there's gas in the ground somewhere. Then we need to invest in this. The company is looking at where that gas is possible and where it's best to drill. This may or may not be subject to an investigative licence. If it is granted, then the environmental permit will be added. This ensures that all aspects relevant to the environment are considered. The requirements laid down in that framework must also be met. After that, the other permits I mentioned still have to be granted. This makes things even more complicated at the right moments than it already is. We are already going through the two separate permit procedures for the first drilling. For the subsequent licences, we also have the m.e.r. procedure. On that m.e.r. I am talking about the very first phase and the European rules that apply to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u24	The minister said he'll come back to my questions later. I am specifically concerned with the possibilities for local authorities to participate. Shall I wait for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u25	I think it would be a good idea for Mr Kuiper to wait for my response in that context. In my introduction, I only mention what I'm going to talk about later. So I will come back to his questions in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u26	I have a question about the BOLO. How does that work? Will Parliament be able to see the granting of that search permit? The approval of the test drilling at Schiermonnikoog has caused quite a stir. Did the Chamber know about granting that search warrant? How does that process work? Does this law still provide in any way for submission to the Chamber of Investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u27	As far as I'm concerned, I have my own responsibility as far as the search warrant is concerned. Of course, I have to be transparent in my work for the Chamber. In my opinion, this is sufficiently clear to the Chamber, also in view of all the publicity in this regard. If there are applications, they will be published. They are also dealt with in public. I'm gonna stay inside the room I got from the room. I enforce the laws as laid down by the Chambers. That is the way it is going, but I have my own responsibility for the handling of permits. I trade within the space I've been given for that. I would like to mention the third bill as separate. That's the bill... Probable Gas extraction Act, Groningen. This is the legislative proposal which amends the draft law implementing the offshore safety directive and immediately introduces the presumption of evidence, in line with what the Council of State has advised on this matter. With these three legislative proposals, I believe that there is a balanced package of measures, with the emphasis on safety, as it should be, minimising risks through the various permits to be granted, while ensuring even better the independence of State supervision of the Mines. All in all, this will enable the whole process, as well as confidence in the role of State surveillance, to be improved. I now turn to the transition to renewable energy and the gas building, where I have already said a few words. In the Lower House the demand is always raised, and now also in the Upper Chamber, whether we can switch to renewable energy even faster and step away from gas even faster. I am very motivated when it comes to switching to renewable energy, but I am also very motivated to keep our society going, to keep the houses warm, to keep the factories running, to keep the offices warm, and to keep transport going, in short, to keep the economy going and to maintain employment. The aim is to ensure that the transition to renewable energy is made as quickly as possible, but in a responsible manner. This means that we need a longer period of time. The targets are set for 2020, 2023, 2030, 2040 and 2050. By 2050 we must have both a low carbon society and a society based on renewable energy. During this period, there are many intermediate steps to be taken, but in order to keep things going, we will still need a lot of fossil energy. The cleanest form of fossil energy is gas. I have dealt with this in my Energy Agenda. The energy agreement that I concluded with all the parties concerned in 2013 applies until 2023. The Energy Agenda with which I have come now has a duration of up to 2050. It maps the period up to 2050. It also shows how we are going to make the transition, what steps we are going to take to achieve this, and what about the declining role of fossil fuels? It is good to realise the importance of fossil fuels in our economy today. We are going to create five very large wind farms off the Dutch coast. These are good for the electricity consumption of 5 million Dutch households. The total amount of energy supplied by the five wind farms in one year is comparable to 1.5 billion m of low-caloric gas from Groningen. We are now at a level of 24 billion m. 1.5 billion of that 24 billion is equal to the total energy production of the five wind farms. This means that if we are going to reduce gas consumption in the near future, a lot will have to be done for that. That is why we are not only dealing with windmills at sea, but also with windmills on land, using geothermal energy more and better and making better use of available residual heat. We also need to do much more in isolation. All kinds of things are necessary for that. As far as wind at sea is concerned, it is already foreseen that, after five wind farms of 700 MW in the period up to 2023, seven wind farms of 1,000 MW will have to be built in the next seven years. There will therefore need to be very large investments in order to enable the reduction of fossil energy sources, including in particular gas. I have already said that gas has relatively low CO emissions and that it is a good transition fuel. That is why we will need a great deal of gas in the coming years, preferably gas, insofar as fossil energy sources are still needed. It is a question of whether we can win that gas safely and responsibly. In the small gas fields it appears to be a good way to do that. There the risks are very limited, incomparable with the risks in Groningen. In Groningen, the whole of the Netherlands is connected to the specific gas that comes only from the Groningenveld. That is a fact that we must take into account. Nevertheless, during this cabinet period, we managed to halve the amount of gas won in Groningen, even compared to the year 2012, so before the cabinet took office. That is a very big step that has been taken in this cabinet period. 24 billion m of natural gas less a year: you will realize what action that is if you take that 1.5 billion m of natural gas in mind that I have just mentioned. 1.5 billion m is the energy value of the five offshore wind farms. Do you also realise that there is a reduction in natural gas revenues for the Empire through the reduction of natural gas and the lower price of natural gas, from EUR 12 billion to EUR 2 billion per year? That is a very big difference, and it indicates what a huge operation we are doing, both financially and in terms of energy transition. The gas from the small fields is interchangeable with gas that we extract from other countries. The reason why I want to win this gas in the Netherlands, apart from the Groningen gas, as much as possible, both at sea and on land, is that it can be safe. We are not dependent on other countries as a result of this gas extraction either. You don't know what's going on in the world. If you are not dependent on other countries for your energy supply, that is an extra security you have as a country. I think it is important to do so where gas can be safely and responsibly turned into gas. Mr Pijlman asked whether it would not be wise to use the Groningen field for the transition. I don't know exactly how he imagines that. We now have the line of sitting at the lowest possible level, 24 billion m a year. That was also advised by the State surveillance of the Mines. We strive to win as close as possible from year to year, but also within a year. As a result, we believe that, with that low level and flat extraction, there is as little seismicity as possible. Using the Groningenveld for the transition would mean that we would use more or less Groningengas, depending on what is required at some point in time. That would mean that the extraction would fluctuate. According to State supervision of the Mines, fluctuation in extraction leads to more seismicity. That is what we all do not want, especially not Mr Pijlman, who has indicated that, apart from his responsibility as a member of the First Chamber, he also experiences daily in Groningen what impact this has on society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u28	That wasn't at all what I meant. What I mean is that, as I explained this morning, it is still possible to make the transition from fossil to sustainable for households, even if it requires a lot and a lot of investment. I have pointed out that it can be a much greater task for industry and horticulture. There are companies that are really holding hands and for which no good ideas are yet available. I am asking whether it would not be wise to gradually move away from a major operation, too, to allow households to move to a sustainable one, while in all likelihood we will have to maintain the gas supply for industry even longer. I asked for a response to that. I advocated a study of this conversion, because I predict that industry is the real problem for the Netherlands when it comes to the transition. We need them very much if we want to continue working in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u29	I fully agree with Mr Pijlman and share his analysis. The transition in industry is one of the transition paths we have described in the Energy Agenda. I'll come back to that later. We have four transition paths. One concerns energy. We indicate what the current situation is, what the final desired situation is in 2050, how we can grow there and what all the problems we have to overcome. Mr Pijlman has rightly outlined it. Solutions can be proposed in the form of biogas. It is also possible that you will continue to use natural gas, but that you will capture and store the CO. It is also possible that there will be very new techniques. That's all conceivable. We are talking about the period between 2016 and 2050, so a lot can happen. If Mr Pijlman says 'there are big problems here, you will probably need natural gas for the longest time and you need to find solutions', he is quite right. I agree with him and it will be further developed in one of those four transition paths in the Energy Agenda. Mrs Teunissen asked how I would like to shape renewable energy, wind energy, tidal energy and solar energy. I think I can say the same thing I have just said to Mr Arrowman. I'm already working on that transition. I'm not just talking about it, I'm putting it into practice. You know what happens with windmills on land, with windmills at sea, with geothermal heat and with manure fermentation plants, of which, according to FrieslandCampina, 1,000 can be placed with dairy farmers by the year 2020. There is a wide range of renewable energy options that we are currently working on. How exactly we are going to do that, starting with the year 2023, I have laid down in very detail in the Energy Agenda. We are still six years in the process of carrying it out. For the period after that, I have also included this in the Energy Agenda, which is, of course, also available to Mrs Teunissen. In this way, for the short and long term, I have set the line very detailed. I am already busy implementing this at a high rate in practice. Mr Kuiper asked about the small fields. He said not everything that is technically possible should be wanted. I fully agree with him, but if something can be safe and responsible, which makes you, to a lesser extent, dependent on what happens abroad or not, I believe that you should do so. If you have a small field, little happens in the subsurface. If the gas disappears from the sandstone where it comes from and the pressure gets less high, it just happens much less than in that huge Groningen field. All the studies carried out so far show this. When the Groningen field changes, you get big moves there, as we, and especially the people in Groningen, have noticed in recent years. In small fields, that's very different. Wherever it can be safe and responsible, I think we should do it too. I already said something about the gas building. Mr Pijlman asked me to indicate whether that gas building could stand in the way of the transition to renewable energy. I do not think that the transition to renewable energy is in any way hampered by that gas building. I see the gas building as a construction, a structure that is necessary to allow the extraction of the gas, which is owned by the NAM, that the NAM wins there and that we need for the Netherlands, to take place in a responsible way. It is also a question of the fact that the bulk of the proceeds are for the benefit of Dutch society. That's what the gas building's for. In the transition to renewable energy I feel in no way hindered by the gas building, by the NAM or by the parties forming the NAM. I'm just doing what's necessary for renewable energy. Everyone, including the NAM and the parties that form the NAM, understands that we are in the process of transitioning to renewable energy around the world and that it is better to be at the forefront of this than at the back. I've been talking about the transition paths. In the Energy Agenda, we make a distinction between low-temperature heat and that is what Mr Pijlman talked about when he talked about the houses. He talked about this when he talked about the industry, power and light, which includes the electricity that everyone should have, and transport. Now all transport is still carried out with fossil energy carriers. We have about 10 million cars in the Netherlands, of which 12,000 are completely electric. So we now have 12,000 full electric cars at 10 million and we have the ambition that all cars that are sold new in 2035 will be completely electric or hydrogen cars. We also have a very great ambition in this area, which is part of one of the transition paths further developed in the Energy Agenda. Mrs Meijer asked if I could send a letter about the delivery contracts with the Belgians and the Germans. She established a relationship with the number of cuub gas that should be won in Groningen. There is no relationship between contracts and contracted volumes with parties on the one hand and the decisions we take on the scale of gas extraction on the other. Determining the scale of gas extraction is what is all about equipment in the Netherlands, Germany, France and Belgium that is fully adapted to Groninger gas and is also suitable for this purpose only. That's a physical fact. Of course that has to change. There must be equipment suitable for high-caloric gas or equipment suitable for both, or the existing equipment must be completely removed and replaced by other equipment, such as electrical equipment or geothermal equipment, but all this must be organised. We in the Netherlands have our thoughts about the pace at which this can be done. We have agreed to this with France, Belgium and Germany. It's purely about the physical need. It affects the volume we win in Groningen. The contracts concluded with Belgians and Germans are not relevant to this. GTS has given me a very good insight into what is physically needed for gas. In my letter to the House of Representatives of 24 June, a letter which was also notified to the House of First Instance, I explained in detail what happened to the supply of gas to the countries around us. I also raised the question of what is possible in this area in the short term to bring about a change, how long it will take and what arrangements have been made. I think it is already clear and I see no reason to send another letter on this. Mr Verheijen asked me to include SodM's position in the review of the gas building. He referred to the position of EBN, as Mr Pijlman has already done. As I said in my introduction, EBN plays a typical role as a 100% state subsidiary. I could have imagined that we would have done it differently, but EBN is there. I believe that EBN has a useful role to play at the moment, not only in relation to the Groninger Field, but also in relation to the North Sea, to the small fields and to geothermal energy. As long as we can influence developments for the better, we must continue to do so. There is a direct relationship with the gas building, because EBN is part of the gas building. In the discussions we have with the other parties that are also part of the gas building, we will see whether we can agree on a transparent future construction and how EBN is or is not part of it. In any case, I believe that, regardless of what we conclude with regard to Groningen, the other tasks that EBN carries out are also important tasks. Mrs Teunissen asked about the reduction of revenue from Groninger gas. I told you, that's a big deal. We have reduced the revenue from EUR 12 billion to EUR 2 billion. Mrs Teunissen says that it would be wiser to reverse gas extraction to 12 billion m. If I did, I'd have two choices. Choice 1 is to leave a large part of the country in the cold for much of the winter. Choice 2 is to go out of 12 billion cubs, to establish in winter that you need much more and so much more to win, so you are shockingly winning. To the conviction of SodM, and also to my conviction based on advice from SodM, you create seismicity, while we are doing our best to reduce precisely that seismicity. What I can do at the bottom, how far I can go back, is 24 billion m. That is also the advice of SodM. By doing this through the years and within the year, you can do the most justice to the legitimate safety demands and safety requirements of the people in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u30	To my knowledge, there has also been talk in the Lower House about possible scenarios if we take those 12 billion m. In the end, these scenarios have not been outlined by the Cabinet. The Minister is now setting out a scenario here, but does he agree with me that this is simply based on a political choice and that we should have that debate in the House of Representatives very well before we can say what is possible and what is not possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u31	No, I totally disagree with that. It's not a political choice. There is a very detailed calculation by GTS of the minimum gas requirement in an average winter. In a colder winter I have to get over it, but in an average winter I can do with that. I was advised by SodM to keep that level of 24 billion m and also to win as flat as possible within a year. Those are the advice I've been given. So I'm not going to make a scenario of 12 billion m, because that's totally irresponsible: either I have to leave people in the cold, or I'm going to have big fluctuations in natural gas extraction, with the immediate consequence, according to SodM, more seismicity. I've been trying all day to get to less seismicity. I am also pleased that we can see that the seismicity in Groningen has been halved compared to the year 2011, two years before this cabinet took office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u32	I appreciate the Minister's efforts, of course, but is it true that the Minister is basing this on the current energy needs? If we were to link scenarios to the climate forecast we also have, with the energy savings that go with it, wouldn't you come up with other scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u33	Sure. It is quite conceivable that the demand for Groningen gas will decrease in the long term if we do what I believe is necessary, i.e. move as quickly as possible to renewable energy and isolate as much as possible. I see that after the year 2021, until then, the current extraction plan is at issue, and that also offers opportunities to reduce production in Groningen. However, we have established for a clear period of five years that this is the need, given our desire to avoid fluctuations, in order to avoid seismicity as much as possible. This is what I believe I can do to the fullest for the next five years. We've seen three things in four years. First of all, a halving of the extraction of gas. Secondly, a halving of seismicity. Thirdly, government gas revenues have fallen from 12 billion to 2 billion a year. These are very profound changes and have occurred over the last four years. Certainly the first two were absolutely necessary in the interests of the safety of the people in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u34	Finally, Mrs Teunissen on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u35	According to the calculations, at 24 billion m there is still a risk of tremors. In this respect, I wonder why the Minister did not choose to simply set a quantity of m per year instead of sticking to the EUR 24 billion for five years. To be honest, I think that is a little under-ambitious, because we see that developments are going very fast and that we can do a lot with efficiency gains. Take a look at wind energy, too. Why aren't we just looking at the amount of m that can be won every year as the transition goes so fast?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u36	I told you, we are now winning 24 billion m less than in 2012. I've indicated how much that is, less than 24 billion m of gas. 1.5 billion m is already comparable to those five huge wind farms that we are going to build off the coast. 24 billion m less is very moving, very ambitious, in accordance with SodM's opinion and in accordance with the analysis of GTS that we need this minimum. If I don't do this, I have two options: either I put people in the cold and let the economy stagnate, or I'm going to cause great fluctuations from year to year, which is unsafe and leads to more seismicity, which is what we need less of. It has been suggested by a single Member that I would have been forced by the Council of State to reduce the extraction of gas from the Groningen field. I can assure the Chamber that that is not the case. From the first day I was in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I've been working on the gas extraction in Groningen. I made sure we had all the facts on the table first. Some members of this Chamber have played a role in this. From that moment on, I have consistently worked on improving safety and reducing gas extraction. Of course I was influenced, first and foremost by the people in Groningen, but also by the directors of Groningen, the Lower House, the Upper Chamber, SodM of course, the Council of State and everyone who feels involved. Everyone's had an influence on that. It has been a constant movement that we have used in this cabinet period to ensure that we would dramatically improve the unacceptable situation in this northern province. We're not there yet, but we've come a long way. The second part of my reply concerns the handling of damages, the strengthening and some other above-ground measures. Members have made critical, sometimes very critical, comments on the progress of the resolution of the damage. It was said that it was completely stagnant and that nothing of that damage treatment actually came to pass. I think we're gonna paint the wrong picture if we say so. Hundreds of damage reports per month are coming in to the Centre for Safe Living. The vast majority of them, 80%, are completed with one expert report. This means that an injury report comes in, an expert goes in and draws up a report and establishes an amount, and that amount is accepted by the person who reported the damage. In addition, if you damage more than €1,000, for example a damage of €1,200, you get €1,200 plus €4,000 for value-added investments in your home. Then you can put down a pallet stove, you can implement insulation measures or you can put solar panels on the roof. This means that €1,200 damages will eventually result in you getting a discount of €5,200. That is a very good arrangement that has been made there. 80% will therefore be dealt with in practice within eight weeks. Then you still have 10% to 15% of the claims reports in which a counter-expertise leads to an agreement between a damage detector and the Centre for Safe Living. This leaves 5% to 10% of the damage cases where there is a more complex situation or persistent disagreement. That is why extra effort is needed. Let us realize what is going well. Let's not make the problem bigger than it already is and make the people in Groningen even more worried than they already are. That doesn't help anyone. There's a lot going well in that damage settlement. We're aiming at getting that last part right too. We do a lot for that last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u37	However, I would like to return to what the Minister has already said about the handling of damages. In my speech, I said that we understood that a lot of small damage cases are handled satisfactorily and smoothly. I don't want to take anything away from that. At the same time, the Minister repeated an example I mentioned, where you can see that many well-meaning schemes also have perverse effects. These perverse effects lead to a great deal of frustration and disappointment. Well, that's all about the increase in value. The Minister outlined it exactly as I understood it. If you have a little more than €1,000 damage, you will be compensated for your damage plus an amount to improve your property in other ways. Of course, that is very good for the people involved, but for the people who suffer from their damage just below €1,000, the frustration is only increasing. So you get an interest in having more than €1,000 damage to your property. I wonder if this kind of arrangement, if you look at the whole of it, would improve the credibility of the settlement of damages in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u38	Mr Flierman has put his finger on a sore spot a number of times in his speech. This is one of them. You can certainly think of this as Mr Flierman is suggesting. Mr Flierman knows what discussions we have had in the House of Representatives. He also knows the views of the municipal and provincial leaders in Groningen. The people in Groningen who give their views on what is going on there in various civil society organisations have also been expressed. I had a long discussion with the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives has said that this arrangement was there and we unanimously believe that it should remain. I then tried to find support in Groningen for a change to that arrangement. Turns out there wasn't. Once in a democracy, it's over. If the directly elected parliament in the House of Representatives unanimously says that something must be done, it will be done in the end. That is the case with this value increase scheme. In practice, more than 60,000 damage cases have already been dealt with. In more than 40 000 cases a concession has already been granted under the value increase scheme. At some point, there's not that much left. This arrangement is gradually coming to an end, because you cannot get such an arrangement for one house several times. In the end, what remained in that arrangement has the disadvantages that Mr Flierman mentioned, but it is the result of democratic decision-making. That's worth something, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u39	I accept, of course, the outcome of that discussion in the Lower House. Nevertheless, I think that for drivers, thinking should never stop. In another context, I said that this morning, in response to questions from Mrs Vos. I can imagine that there will be a moment to review the whole of these arrangements. I suppose, also on the basis of a number of discussions we have had earlier today, for example, on the improvement of housing and on the housing that needs to be dealt with thoroughly, that discussion will be resumed in the near future. Then I would like to suggest to the Minister that these arrangements, including the shadow side of them, should be reviewed to see if this is what we wanted to achieve with each other. That is what I am asking him, because I can actually tell in his words that he agrees with me a little bit on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u40	That is what Mr Flierman can conclude. The same goes for what he says about the strengthening task we stand for. He suggests that a relationship could be established between the increase in value and the strengthening that should take place. I think that Mr Flierman is right to combine it. I have talked about these matters with the directors in Groningen, the people in Groningen and the House of Representatives. Yet this had come out of it. We have to realise that as a responsible minister, I am in a disadvantaged position with regard to the people of Groningen. They are constantly confronted with the problem. These people have seen this problem grow for years. They have had the idea, I do not think that the seriousness of this problem was not sufficiently understood. Now that we can see it, they also want satisfaction. They have strong views on what the people's representatives are listening to. That's how it's supposed to be in a democracy. Eventually, after a very long, repeated discussion in the House of Representatives, this came out. There is a problem in the last 5 to 10% of damage cases. There may be disagreement. If you have damage, the first possibility is that you agree with the first valuer. Then you can appoint a valuer yourself. That might come out again. It was true that a third valuer could be used. Then, if you still disagree with it, you can submit it to the arbitrator. He'll decide. If you don't agree with the arbitrator, you can also go to court. If you can't agree, it's gonna last a long time. That does not mean that the other side would not be prepared to deal with the matter, but for that willingness you need two sides. We think it is necessary to do a number of things for those complex cases and cases of persistent disagreement. The first is that the National Coordinator is going to interfere. He'll take over a case of complex damage. He takes over the direction of finding a solution in the matter. So if the National Coordinator doesn't get out of there eventually, we've set up an arbitrator. The arbitrator shall give a ruling. That ruling is binding on the NAM and on the Centre for Safe Living, but not on the damage detector. So the damage reporter can still go to court if he wants to. The legislative proposal that is now under discussion provides for a reversal of the burden of proof, i.e. a presumption of evidence. It's complicated, but it's all about the people reporting damage. Even if the case is complex or if people cannot agree with those who have to assess the damage report, we have arranged for them to be properly listened to at a number of stages, to have a good look at what they want, whether they are right and whether they can be met. I am convinced that we are doing justice to all claims.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u41	The Minister actually says: we should not exaggerate, things are going well, 70% to perhaps 80% is going well. Yesterday's Bröring report, which was written by the University of Groningen on behalf of the province, gives a very different picture. The picture is that the damage treatment has been organised in such a way that 13 bodies are now working on it and that the public is not aware of it. Due to the lack of transparency in the handling of damages, citizens have little confidence that they will be assessed fairly. These are the conclusions of the report, followed by recommendations. It seems that the Minister is completely ignorant of this and says: there are only a few more difficult points. Then I haven't even mentioned the new and remodeling scheme. This does not go as smoothly as the Minister suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u42	The minister's just going to give us a heads-up on what the facts are. I wasn't talking about 70%. I was talking about 80%, which in the first instance already comes to an agreement with the person who assesses the claim. I referred to 90% to 95% of the valuer's agreement in the second instance. I was talking about 5% to 10% of the claims remaining and that there is a careful procedure for those cases to do justice to the interest of the claims detector at a number of stages. I would certainly like to comment on the report of the University of Groningen. A number of master students from the University of Groningen have prepared that report. I got it yesterday. So I can only say a few words about it. You can, of course, describe what has been set up by us and then call it complicated. You can talk about thirteen parties, but one of those parties is Shocking Groningen and another party is the Groninger Soil Movement. So those are just people in Groningen who organized themselves. They wished to have a say and have been given it. It's hard to say that these bodies create complexity and nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u43	Does this mean that the Minister says: be satisfied with it, I am satisfied with it and the damage handling is going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u44	I'm not happy with it. I'm just gonna give you the facts as they are. I'm always looking forward to improving things. The three legislative proposals now before us are proof of this. I think there is still a lot to be done, both in optimising schemes and in optimising implementation practice. I think it is important to have a strong public direction on this. We have also appointed the National Coordinator Groningen. It has drawn up a multiannual programme in consultation with all concerned. It does justice to the interests of the people in the area. That's how we're working on it now. We are doing this as best we can, but I am convinced that further improvements are possible. We will certainly make use of these opportunities in the future. "Satisfaction" is therefore the last word I would like to say in relation to the situation in Groningen, but if it is said here that the settlement of damages is stagnating and is actually on its way, I would like to give you the facts. It is said that it is quite complicated. We've set up an independent counsel. You can call that complicated. We have set up a committee to assess particularly poignant situations. You can call that complicated. We removed the damages at the NAM and set up a separate organization, the Centrum Secure Living. Is that complicated? We've put the public direction in the hands of the National Coordinator. Is that complicated? Is the minister complicated? I think we've tried very carefully to do justice to the people in Groningen. Where there are opportunities for improvement, we will certainly make use of them. The most important thing that we have done is to have a National Coordinator set up there, with an intergovernmental service consisting of people from different ministries, provinces and municipalities. In the meantime, several hundred people are working under the guidance of the National Coordinator to ensure that NAM does not take things off in practice and to prevent people from knowing what to aim for and feeling at the mercy of the person who caused the damage. No, instead, the governments put together someone who can do what is necessary. I shall come back to this later when I say that we are going to strengthen the position of the National Coordinator even further, what we have done before and what will be discussed here in the First Chamber on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u45	I think the Minister is going to say to me: I will come back to that in a moment. This is what I wanted to ask him. I spoke this morning about the intimidating role of the NAM towards the victims of earthquakes and the like. Now I hear the Minister say that the NAM is completely out of it. I hear complaints from Groningen, among others from politicians of the Republic, that the NAM still has a very big finger in its mouth. So I would very much like the Minister to go into this again in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u46	I'll be sure to. In anticipation, the NAM is the party responsible for the extraction of natural gas. As a result of natural gas extraction, there are earthquakes. As a result of the earthquakes, there is damage. The NAM is bound to compensate for that damage. The NAM remains in the picture, because it is liable to damages. Now it's about how you handle that damage. We removed it from the NAM and deposited it at the Safe Living Center. We then transferred the supervision of the Centre Safe Living to the National Coordinator. We had an independent committee for that at first, but we have now created the National Coordinator for that. I will indicate later, and I can do so now, that we will also use the National Coordinator for the protocols, the working methods and so on of the Centre for Safe Living. The National Coordinator is also going to remove the complex cases from the Centre Secure Living to handle them itself. I think that in this way and by legally anchoring the position of the National Coordinator, we are gradually moving towards a situation where there is maximum clarity. This means: the NAM is liable for damages, the execution is at the Centre Secure Living and the direction over the whole process has the National Coordinator. Eventually, we're gonna get to that model.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u47	I have a very short question. The Minister is now describing a situation. If I understand correctly, that's the situation he's working on. That situation has not yet entered into force. Should the position of the National Coordinator be further strengthened in future legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u48	We have come a long way, because the National Coordinator is already in full swing. In practice, he brings the various things together and ensures that there is guidance from the government. He has the confidence of the province, the municipalities and the cabinet. We very much appreciate and support his activities, but think that he can be further strengthened by legally anchoring his position. Moreover, we think he should have perseverance and be able to give instructions when necessary. We have also worked out arrangements for this. A bill has already been passed by the Council of State. I will no doubt have another discussion about that bill here in the First Chamber. The distribution I have just indicated to Mrs Meijer must ultimately be simple and applied consistently. We're already growing to that at a high rate. We've made some progress in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u49	It is, of course, those 5 to 10% of the cases that the Minister mentions where parties cannot agree immediately. Of course, the feeling of this is very easy: savings are being made here; they do not want to give us what we are entitled to. In practice, the feeling is very easy: the NAM is behind it, he does not want to pay too much for it, which ensures that it has to be negotiated over and over again. Is the Minister now explicitly saying that the NAM has nothing to do with it and does not interfere with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u50	We're not there. We've already removed the damage settlement from the NAM by the Center for Safe Living. I didn't have to do that against the will of the NAM. The NAM has worked with conviction in this respect. So we have created a separate organization. That organisation was under independent supervision. Now we have said: we need to make that even clearer, because public control must be clearly in the hands of the National Coordinator. This means that we will also leave the supervision of the Centre for Safe Living with the National Coordinator. Then the experts are sent out with protocols, with pieces showing how to act and what to do when to do in what way. I believe that these should also be determined by the National Coordinator. In this way, I think we are rapidly growing into a situation in which one is liable to damages, the other does the execution and the third provides public direction on the whole. This is being discussed further at the moment, because it is not a matter of its own accord.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u51	From the complaint so far, from that point on, the NAM is behind it, so we can't just say it's not true. The NAM could be behind that. It affects the Center for Safe Living. It affects all the protocols that need to be completed. That means that there has indeed, so far, been a big finger in the porridge of the NAM. The blames can therefore be at least partly justified in this respect. But you're willing to take care of it differently, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u52	If something is done by the NAM, it does not necessarily mean that it is done wrong. I think a lot of good is being done by the NAM, with a good intention. They're acting the right way. They're cooperating. When I started out as Minister of Economic Affairs, I only dealt with the NAM in relation to the settlement of damages. Back then, the Center of Safe Living wasn't there yet. The Center for Safe Living was set up in my period. Now we're working on further self-sustaining in the way I've just described it. The relationship with the NAM can be arranged in different ways. You can say: every bill that has to be paid goes to the NAM and she has to pay it. Another possibility is that you get a budget for a year, that the NAM pays and that within that budget you will settle the business that needs to be done and at the end of the year you will see whether additional money is needed or whether there is money left that can be moved to the next year. That's a possibility. You could work with a fund. I am not in favour of that, but it is a possibility. Those are all technical performances. From a situation with only the NAM and the damage detectors we now have a situation with the NAM, the National Coordinator, the Centrum Secure Living and the damage detectors. What I'm doing right now is to optimally organize that over three bodies, namely NAM, Centrum Secure Living and the public direction, all acting for the benefit of the people in Groningen. We are in that process now, and we are well advanced in that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u53	My group has expressed the wish that the Centre for Safe Living should operate completely independently of the NAM. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says that the Safe Living Centre operates independently of the NAM when it comes to dealing with the damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u54	That's not the case at the moment. I've indicated the ideal final situation. One is liable for damages, the other is responsible for execution and the third is responsible for direction. That's where we're working. We've made some progress. Are we there yet? No. Are we working there? Yeah, and I'll do it as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u55	I understand from the Minister that we are not here yet, but that he is going to ensure that there is an independent Safe Living Centre that operates independently of the NAM in the damages settlement. That's the target he's working towards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u56	I have already mentioned, including with regard to the gas building, that I consider transparency to be of the utmost importance. Everyone must be able to see and understand what is happening. This is important with regard to the gas building. It is also important with regard to the handling of the damage. The NAM is liable for damages, but also has rights to which justice must be given. But above all, the NAM must ensure that the damage it causes is compensated. That damage must be determined and dealt with by the Centre for Safe Living. That's gotta be public direction. I think you can organize these things optimally if you take these different roles apart and let each one play its own role. I have to answer to you for all of this. The best way to answer that question is if the case is well organized. So I'm working on an optimal organization, in line with what you just described, Mrs. Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u57	Finally, Mrs Vos, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u58	Finally. That is quite clear, Mr President. When will that situation be achieved? How fast does the Minister work in this? When can we hear from him that the Safe Living Centre is indeed operating independently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u59	I can't report that. If you want to work with protocols, those protocols need to be drawn up. The case needs to be organized. It has to be agreed. We have already made some progress in a period of four years. I'll try to finish it as soon as I can. When it's done, I don't know. I think it would be useful to inform the Chamber about that process. I intend to do so as a result of Mrs Vos' comment, to outline a perspective, including in time, of when we want this to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u60	I welcome the improvements the Minister wishes to make. By the way, he is in line with Bröring's report. The minister just said he wants to give the National Coordinator more powers and perseverance. He's got a bill with the Council of State. I'm assuming that the positions he just outlined will be taken care of. When can that bill reach the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u61	Not only with this bill, it can be arranged. It's more complex. There must also be practical organisation and regulation outside the legislative proposal. As soon as we have a legislative proposal in the Council of Ministers, it goes to the Council of State. Then there will be an opinion from the Council of State. Depending on this, it will be discussed again in the Council of Ministers. How long will that take? It may be two or three months with the Council of State, depending on the complexity as assessed by the Council of State. Then it will return to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. That's usually a matter of weeks. Then it goes to the Lower House. I have the ambition to get a long way with that during the period when I am allowed to bear this responsibility, including to you. I'm counting on July next year for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u62	Does this streamlining of the process also mean that the costs of the process itself go down? Now about 36% of the costs and the cost of damages go to the trial itself. Can that percentage go down? Does the Minister have any ideas about that yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u63	I could bring that back, for example, by deleting the second expertise. After the resident has made a claim, he will be given an expert from the Safe Living Centre who will determine the damage. If the resident disagrees, he may appoint a second expert himself. I could get rid of that second expert. I'll have less expense. I could delete that you can go to the arbitrator. I could delete all sorts of things, but I don't think I should do that right now. There's a lot of distrust in the area. The trust must be regained. That's what you have to do with careful procedures aimed at doing justice to the people. The price we are currently paying for that procedure is high, but I think it is justified. As we experience it, we will regain the confidence of citizens, the case law will develop further, the process will streamline and the costs will be reduced. But first of all, I am now focused on making sure that we do the right things and regaining people's trust. Mr Flierman spoke about the desirability of a fund filled by the NAM. I'm not convinced yet. I'm looking at how best to do that right now. Once I've separated those three different functions and worked with them, I can see how that works best: the accounts each to the NAM, an annual budget or a fund. I haven't figured that out yet; I'm looking at that. I shall come back to that in the direction of the Chamber, once I have drawn my final conclusion on that. Mr Pijlman asked about the report of the University of Groningen. I already told you I got it yesterday. It is a report in which master students interviewed stakeholders. On this basis, conclusions have been drawn. The report calls for further examination by me before I can come up with a response. In general, I can say that we have come a long way, as I have just indicated. I believe that the role of the National Coordinator is important in itself, but also very important is the multiannual programme with which it is working. He did that after talking to the people in the area, the administrators in the area and the ministries. The multiannual programme has been dealt with in the Council of Ministers, it is dealt with in Deputy States, the colleges of B & W and municipal councils. So we have a wide-ranging programme that aims to do what is necessary from the government in that area. We are well aware that much remains to be done. If we get reports with recommendations, I will study them with pleasure and see what can still be done to further improve what we are doing. Mr Dercksen spoke about the Christmas tree, with thirteen organisations. I have already indicated that this includes the Groninger Gasberaad and all kinds of civil groups. You can identify them all as stakeholders, then you can say it's all so complicated. I think what we have now plays a role. I'm sure I can see opportunities to streamline. These possibilities will initially be seen by the National Coordinator, who will undoubtedly make proposals for them. But for the time being I focus on the quality of the performance and doing justice to the people in Groningen. I spoke immediately about the handling costs. Mr Flierman asked how I estimate the role of the two shareholders of the NAM, from their perspective. It is companies that have to act responsibly. Do they commit themselves to the settlement of damages? In general, I can say that I have never felt obstructed by the NAM and/or its shareholders in respect of the proper handling of damages. I have always noticed that they are very well aware of their responsibility, to which they want to do justice, always wanting to deal with me and my staff in a solution-oriented way. I see the attitude of the NAM, Shell and ExxonMobil as supporting the process. Mr Pijlman wondered what was against disclosure of the agreement between the NAM and the Centre Secure Living. Agreements with which I am involved must be transparent, because I am accountable. But if companies or private organisations make agreements between themselves, the Centrum Secure Living was established on behalf of the NAM. It is not for me to make those agreements public. However, I believe that the whole process should be transparent. So I will look at, as soon as those relations I have just described have been clarified, how we can make the underlying documents transparent for everyone. The reinforcement notice has been mentioned. This task is very great. It is not the case that a pilot inspection of 1,450 homes was carried out, as Mr Pijlman said. Those 1,450 homes are the homes in the priority areas, which we thought were: we have to look first at those homes in those areas in order to know what is necessary in terms of strengthening and strengthening. That's what happened. The conclusion has been drawn that almost all these homes need to be strengthened. It is understandable that it is now being said: it is a lot more housing in its entirety, so you can extend your conclusions to the total number of homes. I'm careful with that. In the past, I have seen a report commissioned by the Deputy States of Groningen, in which more than 100,000 homes had to be strengthened. I later saw pieces in which there were hundreds of homes that need to be strengthened. Now I see pieces in which there are several tens of thousands of homes. It is still on the move, which also depends on the inspections and on what we hold for risks we run. Do we still have to assume 5 on the Richter scale, or should 4.5 on the Richter scale be the strongest indicated earthquake ever in the world.............................................................................................................. Should we consider the current NPR, with the standard of reinforcement, or should we also take into account the fact that next July there will be a new, adapted NPR, which may still contain refinements? It is all in motion, but I do think that reinforcement is a very big task, which is very deep in the area. I am pleased that we have a public direction on that process, in cooperation with municipalities, provinces and ministries, in the form of the National Coordinator. That is really necessary in this whole process. I've learned to think in large numbers of homes. I am thinking first of all of someone who lives in his house with his family, and suddenly hears that the house must be fortified, so that he must get out of that house, after which that house will be fortified. What does that mean for a family like that? We need to discuss with that family how and when that can be done. I am well aware that it is mainly a sum of people for whom this is very far-reaching. It's about large numbers, but it's about individuals in the first place. I have to make sure they're done justice. That means we have to make speed and strengthen a lot of houses. Furthermore, these individual citizens must be treated very carefully. That is what the National Coordinator is doing; I appreciate that very much. Mr Flierman and Mr Pijlman questioned the buying-in arrangements. I must say that I am not in favour of the government buying up all the housing in that area or that the government is offering anyone who wants to leave there the opportunity to sell the house. I am not in favour of that right now. I think it is important that we maintain the area. The area has a social structure. If you get large-scale movements from the population there, you disturb that structure and you just have to wait and see what you get in return. It is important to deal with this very carefully. We must ensure that risks are reduced as far as possible by reducing natural gas extraction. We need to reduce the risks by strengthening houses in a good way, flanked by all kinds of compensatory measures. For distressing cases, we need to find practical solutions. I can imagine that a buy-out scheme could also play a role in this. That is why we have set up a pilot, which is currently being evaluated. If that evaluation is there, I will draw conclusions from that and then we will see what we need to do in the interests of the people in Groningen and of the proper functioning of the housing market in Groningen in order to improve there. I don't want to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u64	I am listening to the Minister with increasing amazement. He says not to be in favour of a buy-back scheme, which distorts the structure. The current structure is that people are trapped in their homes. They often want to sell that place, but they can't get rid of it, because nobody wants their house. We have seen that there was a buy-back scheme, which was empty within no time, because everyone wanted to use it. People looked at each other ugly, because one did and the other couldn't use it. And then the minister says he's a little disappointed to destabilize the structure. I believe that this destabilization has already taken place by wanting to continue to win 24 billion m3, which has made the area unsafe. It's been proven. That's what they say in Groningen. I am actually listening to the Minister with increasing amazement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u65	I am listening to Mrs Meijer with increasing amazement. That 24 billion m is a half cut of the extraction that was there before the cabinet took office. I didn't say I don't want a buy-in at all. I told you, I don't want a buy-back arrangement right now. I also said that I am concerned about social cohesion in the area. It is one of the old coherent rural areas of the Netherlands, a very beautiful area that I like to maintain in its social structure. I said that we are working on a buy-back scheme and that we will evaluate it. Based on the outcome, we will see what we have to do to do justice to the people in the area and to make the housing market function properly. Mrs. Meijer says there's no house being sold. Why does she say things like that? The housing market in the area has recovered. The prices of the houses are again at the level of 2012. There is still a serious problem with regard to the level of sales prices and the length of time a house is for sale. So there is certainly another problem that needs to be resolved, but prices are back to 2012 levels. These are positive developments that we are working on together. Increasing value, reducing natural gas extraction, strengthening, economic improvements in the area: we all do that to achieve this kind of thing. I also said that, as far as the buy-in is concerned, the future is still open and depends on the evaluation of the pilot we are going to carry out. On the basis of this evaluation, we will see what can still be done, in the form of buy-back, in a responsible way, to further improve the situation in the area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u66	Mrs. Meijer, one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u67	Very briefly, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u68	Very briefly, please. I'll look at the clock, because I don't want it to be midnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u69	I want it to be the middle of the night, but we'll be out of here by then. I'd like to draw two conclusions. The 48 billion m is halved to 24 billion m. That could still be a dangerous level. The Minister always shields with it, but I think he should be honest about it. My other conclusion is that people are trapped in their homes. People are talking about that. They don't feel safe and live with a suitcase under the stairs. Then I think it's a little nice talking to say that we need to maintain the structure. That's really out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u70	Mr. Pijlman, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u71	Mr President, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u72	Mrs Meijer says I'm a beautiful speaker and I should be honest. I do not think Mrs Meijer does justice to my commitment. I'm being honest and I'm trying to paint reality to the Chamber as best I can. Beautiful talk and that I wouldn't be honest with you, I find wrong qualifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u73	I believe the Minister is sending a somewhat double message. On the one hand, he says he's trying to imagine what a family like that is going through that needs to get out of his house. We need to talk about how things are going to go on. On the other hand, he says he wants to maintain the structure of this beautiful, original area. That's what we all want. That's what he connects to the pilot buy-back scheme. However, that was not the way the pilot was designed at all. That pilot buy-back scheme was just as organized as the minister just said, namely that he wants to support the citizen. It was an arrangement for people who wanted to sell their homes, for example because they got another job or wanted to move through family conditions or went to a care centre. They'd be stuck with their house that wasn't sold. There was supposed to be an appraisal. One would not get the value of the valuation, but something below it and with that they were helped. That was the scheme, and I do not think it has anything to do with the structure of the area. This arrangement does exactly what the Minister says: he wants to be for the good of the people, because he wants to do them justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u74	I do not understand where Mr Pijlman and I have different views. I have said that a general buying-in scheme, which is advocated, does not seem to me appropriate at the moment, since such a general buying-out scheme could be at the expense of the social structure and cohesion of the area. The second thing I have said is that we need to see how, with a certain kind of buy-back scheme, we can make a responsible contribution to improving the housing market and how we can do justice to the inhabitants of the area. That's what we've targeted that pilot, where more than 50 homes have been purchased. That pilot is currently being evaluated. Let's see what comes out of it. On the basis of the outcome, we will see whether my conclusion that a generic buy-back scheme is not desirable remains valid. If it is maintained, we will also see whether specific forms of the buying-in scheme can contribute to the improvement of the area. That's what I said. I do not see very clearly the difference between what Mr Arrowman is trying to identify.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u75	May I ask the Minister a question? You're getting a lot of interruptions. We're gonna try to narrow that down a little bit. How much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u76	The way it's going now is an hour or two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u77	No, no, you look very serious. You're getting a lot of interruptions. I'm trying to cut back on that. Mr Ten Hoeve, don't interrupt now, I'm just having a conversation with the Minister. I just said it shouldn't be midnight. I'm very serious. How much longer do you think you'll need yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u78	If I could speak undisturbed, I think I'll be through it in 45 minutes to an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u79	I'll take a look around the room. You know what we're up to. Mr Ten Hoeve, a very short question, a very short one. Then, for the time being, I'll have the Minister tell his story without interruptions. Everyone still has their second term and it will take 45 minutes. Then we have the Minister's second term. So it's midnight!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u80	Coming back, however, to what the Minister said...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u81	Briefly, Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u82	He said he doesn't want a buy-back arrangement right now. I agree with his point of view. The buy-back scheme that was in place was targeted and such a buy-back scheme could be restored. However, if we have to wait for all sorts of evaluations, do we not want the people who are in trouble now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u83	We have already seen that the housing market is recovering in the area. The prices are at the level of 2012. We have already seen that in particularly distressing cases more than ten houses have been bought up. We've seen that with the pilot we buy over 50 properties. All in all, this gives an insight into the situation in which we strive to make the housing market in that area the same as in similar areas where there are no earthquakes. I do not think it is acceptable for people in Groningen to be burdened with a worse housing market than elsewhere in the country. I need to make sure that this isn't the case and that the housing market is just as good. I need to see what measures can contribute to this. On the basis of the pilot, I will see if any kind of buy-back scheme can contribute to this. I will try to get through the various subjects more quickly, bearing in mind the President's encouragement. If the Members want a floor, I am always prepared to do so. Mr Pijlman asked what one can expect from the economic programme. For the economic programme, an amount of EUR 97.5 million has become available, part from the province and most from the NAM and hence from the government. 97.5 million for the period up to 2018. The Economic Board has focused on this. The results achieved and reported up to September 2016 are that 200 additional jobs have been created, 140 entrepreneurs have been supported with their investment plans, an earthquake-proof building testing centre and an investment fund has been opened up. This investment fund also benefits entrepreneurs. I have the feeling that the program has gotten off to a good start. There is a real increase in activity in the region. Moreover, I believe that there will be much more activity in the region if the claims and compensations are also converted into works awarded to contractors. At the moment, 70% of people choose to get the damage transferred into money. Those people don't choose to let the Center of Safe Living fix the damage. They also do not choose to have a contractor repair the damage and send the bill to the Centre Secure Living. They choose to get the damages paid in cash. That is their right, but I think there is a lot of extra activity to be achieved in this area. Mr Verheijen asked if I could indicate how and to what extent the need for a long-term perspective can be met in consultation with the various partners in the region. He also asked if I would be willing to make proposals for that. What Mr Verheijen wants is exactly what we all have the National Coordinator Groningen do. He has come up with a multiannual programme and has talked to everyone about it. The programme has been recently adopted and will then be implemented. That is exactly what Mr Verheijen wants. This is designed in such a way that the various authorities involved work together. Whoever is in charge of the public direction has the lead in that direction. The updated version of the multiannual programme will be published in the near future. Then Mr Verheijen can take note of this and have an opinion on it. Mr Dercksen spoke of an amount of 68 million for Forum in the city of Groningen, which would have been rustled by Mr Alders. Mr Alders has indeed been chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Groningen Forum in the past. He resigned that post prior to his start as National Coordinator Groningen and was in no way involved in the negotiations, also because he wanted to do so himself. After all, Mr Alders knows very well how to act with integrity. He is very capable of separating responsibilities and taking responsibility. I have dealt intensively with the Forum issue and I have not received the impression in any way that Mr Alders would have played an incorrect role in this. I got the impression he didn't play any part in that. Now I come to the legal evidence conjecture. Mr Flierman put his finger on a number of points, as I have already said. He indicated that the Juridification of Damage Treatment is also a danger. He says that the reversal of the burden of proof is well-meant, but wonders whether this could eventually lead to an increase in population and entrepreneurs in the area. It's my job to relieve as much as possible of the damage caused by the Groningers. So I really don't want to end up with a judge. Nor do I wish to end up with a suspicion of evidence and the reversal of the burden of proof. If anyone has any damage, I want an expert to go to him. It must determine the damage independently and sincerely. The damage must then be paid and the damage repaired. That's what I want. So it must go well for the very first time, as it is now in 80% of the cases. It is my ambition to get as close to 100% as possible in this area. But if that doesn't work, we're obliged to listen to the people in the area and do their justice. That is why we have organised a number of steps behind that. The first step is for a second expert to go. Then the arbiter gets in the middle. Then there is also the possibility to go to court. In doing so, we have strengthened the position of the damage detector by introducing a presumption of evidence. We have done so with the best of intentions. We need to make that work now. It is my permanent duty not to let the people go to court, but to do them justice in advance and to ensure that they are compensated for the damage. The damage actually suffered must be compensated as quickly as possible and the damage must be repaired as far as I am concerned. Mr Flierman asked if I am prepared to follow the whole trial with the arbitrator, the reversal of the burden of proof and the fact that cases are brought to justice. He also asked if I am prepared to solve the problems that arise, depending on the findings. I'm prepared to do that. We will review the case by default after five years, but I will continue to follow it in the interim. If I think it is necessary to intervene and to do what Mr Flierman said, I am prepared to do so. Mrs Vos and Mrs Meijer addressed the limitations on the presumption of evidence. The first limitation is the limitation to gas extraction from the Groningenveld. The Advisory Section of the Council of State wrote an information report, so you call it, in this case, the amendment on the reversal of the burden of proof which was finally legally withdrawn in the form of a presumption of evidence. It is important that the Advisory Section of the Council of State indicated that, if it is established in a large number of similar cases that by far the vast majority of these cases have one particular cause, it may be suggested that in other similar cases that cause should also be recognised as the cause of the damage. A legal presumption of evidence makes a deviation from the main rule that states: anyone who claims something must prove it. In the situation I have just described, a presumption of evidence, or reversal of the burden of proof, is justified according to the Council of State. In the situation of gas extraction in Groningen, it is clear that there are a large number of damage cases with all the same background, at least in the vast majority of cases. There is therefore a reasonable basis for the application of the legal presumption of evidence. Elsewhere in the Netherlands there are other types of mining activities, including gas extraction in much smaller fields. Then there are other damages. Then no large number of similar damage cases can be identified and there is no single cause to be identified. It is then very good to apply the normal legal rules in this country for this kind of thing. If a judge considers that he should place the burden of proof with one body, for example the one who extracted the gas and possibly caused the damage, the judge can say that the whole burden of proof is deposited with the potential causer and not with the damage detector. That's what those rules mean, and that's what the judge individually cares about. I think that's a good system to apply across the country. The second limitation I have to address is the limitation to physical damage to buildings and works. This physical damage to buildings and works is common, similar and probably has the same cause. Other forms of damage must, of course, also be compensated. It's not just the physical damage that needs to be compensated. All damage must be compensated. In case of damage other than physical damage, there are very different forms and causes. So there's not one big line out of that. The normal procedure we have before us is that the judge can lay the burden of proof on another party. I think it can all be applied properly and that we should leave it that way. Eventually, the area where the damage occurs is also at issue and the way in which it should be delineated. We have previously decided that we determine the area of impact by defining it. The area described is covered by the reversal of the burden of proof, i.e. by the presumption of evidence. But further discussions with all those involved showed that such a hard border was perceived as very arbitrary. The view was that the possibility should not be ruled out that even outside such a so-called hard border something was actually caused by what was happening within the so-called impact area. At that time, we opted for a new proposal, which is now laid down in the bill before us, in order to leave it to the court to determine whether the damage caused by the gas extraction from the Groningen field was reasonably caused by its nature. This means that there is no fixed hard limit, but that in the course of time the case-law will show exactly how to implement it. I think that we are doing justice to the wishes of the people in the area. It is true that one gets fixed on hard limits. There is a conviction that no justice is done by stating: it is about the Groningen field, that is the field where the problems are and for which a settlement must be made. How this should be applied to border cases in practice, let us leave it to the judge to decide. It will form a case law. After a thorough preparation and a great deal of consultation, I think that is the best way forward for us to achieve this at the moment. Mrs Teunissen asked what additional measures I see for citizens who do not suffer physical damage. This does not require any additional measures. Whatever damage is caused, the person causing the damage is liable to damages. The presumption of evidence for physical damage does not change the rules for other forms of damage at all. They're being applied. In addition, the Commission's Special Situations also applies to these types of damage. It has been set up by me to find a practical solution in distressing cases. People who have certain financial, medical or psychological problems, which often occur in combination, can refer this to this committee. She can see if anything else is needed, except for what's neatly regulated by law. That will then be done. Mrs Teunissen asked whether the demarcation of evidence does not lead to legal inequality. In the case of equality of law, equal treatment is a matter of equal treatment. This was also the subject of the Council of State's opinion and information. The proposal I have made is also aimed at this. I think there is an exceptional situation in Groningen. It doesn't occur in the rest of the country. There is a very different situation with regard to the extraction of natural gas from small fields. It would be wrong to project the Groningen situation on that. That is why I believe that the distinction that is now being made is very good to judge. Mr Flierman asked if I would once again explicitly confirm that the introduction of legal evidence does not infringe the existing possibilities to hold the NAM liable for damage other than physical damage in this case. I can confirm that once again at the request of Mr Flierman. I have received another question from Mrs Teunissen. She asked about extending the presumption of evidence to the whole of the Netherlands. I have already addressed this in an earlier reply. I do not think that is desirable. I will then be able to deal with the licensing procedure. I have already indicated to the Chamber, particularly when Mrs Vos mentioned it, that there are two stages in the case of natural gas extraction licences in particular. You have the phase of detection and the phase of extraction. In the search phase, you're gonna need a BOLO. That's a market organization permit. Then you have a notification. I say to Mr Kuiper that we are going to replace that notification with an environmental permit. This is still being discussed in the Chamber by means of a follow-up procedure. The fact that we are going to replace the notification by an environmental permit means that all procedures and the possibilities of taking action against them will also be available at the detection stage. This therefore applies twice: the first time with the search permit and the second time with the environmental permit. Next, extraction itself will be dealt with. The first time there is a complete procedure with all the possibilities for participation and research requirements in the mining authorisation. Then there is the extraction plan, which deals with how to win. Then there is the environmental permit which states exactly where the winning is going to be made and what conditions will be imposed on it. It's a complex whole. I think it's a complex whole. I also think that a number of things seem to be done in duplicate. In particular, the nature and environmental requirements that are being imposed and which come into the picture each time are not given such a strong emphasis at the beginning of the search permit. That's what it's all about, and that's what it is. If you really want to win, with everything that comes up, this gets a much heavier accent. The various aspects and testing criteria are therefore constantly being discussed, but to a greater or lesser extent. Moreover, the various procedures are as uniform and aligned as possible. I believe that we have in this way set up a complex but also necessary in-depth whole. The end result is a careful decision-making process in which both citizens have had influence at a number of times and governments in the area could have their influence. I think that complexity is the price we ultimately pay for care in something that has or can have a major impact on people's living environment and well-being. Mr Flierman commented on the trade-offs made in the various licences. So I have now responded to that. Mrs Vos asked why I decided not to include the permits for nature and the environment in the search and extraction permits. So they will be taken, but in the way I have just outlined them. Mrs Vos asked if I can confirm that an investigative licence cannot be used to derive a right of extraction. I can confirm that. What Mrs. Vos says is correct. Only investigative activities may be carried out on the basis of an investigative licence. Next, all the other permits I just described come into the picture. Mr Kuiper spoke about what needs to be done with the market organisation or investigation licence. He also referred to the situation in which a notification could ultimately be sufficient. I have indicated that this will be replaced by an environmental permit. Mrs Vos asked why no direct advisory right is granted to water boards, drinking water companies and municipalities. In the case of search and extraction permits, the Deputy State has a direct advisory right and municipalities and water authorities are involved by the Province. The county administration is genuinely trying to do the job right. If there is an application anywhere for a search or extraction permit at the very first stage of the process, it is not yet clear where exactly what is going to happen. It was said: we see all the gas fields in the structure plan, don't we? No, that's not true. There's only the known gas fields in there. There may also be unknown gas fields where suspicions exist and where test drilling will take place. Then these gas fields could turn out to be on a map. So at first you don't know what's going on. It could be a larger area. It makes sense, then, for you to give the county a direct say. Municipalities and water boards are involved through the province. As soon as it is clear where exactly certain things are going to take place, the municipalities and the water boards are also directly involved. I think this is a very good way of doing things. Mrs Meijer asked whether you should not give the drinking water companies an independent advisory role. We have not given drinking water companies a separate role, because the provinces have a legal role to play in protecting the quality of groundwater. Provinces often also have a very direct relationship with the drinking water companies. This means that the provinces, which want to carry out the legal task of protecting the quality of groundwater well, naturally also involve drinking water companies in this type of business. This is primarily their work and their responsibility. I have no doubt that they will fulfil that responsibility properly. In this way, the contribution of the drinking water companies is also well regulated. Mrs Vos asked what the provinces will do with the advice of the advisory bodies and how they will show what they have done with them. It is important that this is clear. We have section 3.3 of the General Administrative Law for that. It regulates how administrative bodies should deal with advice. Deputy States have the responsibility to carefully consider and incorporate the advice in their final decision. They must also account for this in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Law. Mr Kuiper noted that the municipality had an indirect role in the phase of the search and extraction authorisation. The province has a direct role. In particular, he mentioned the point of the small gas fields, which I have just addressed. Indeed, we know of a large number of small gas fields where they lie. We don't know all the gas fields where they are because some of them aren't known yet. It is only after this has become known after test drilling that they can also be added to the inventory. In the case of intended drilling, this can be a new gas field that you do not know exactly where it is located. It is then logical to allow the direct influence of the government to take place from the province. Mr Kuiper asked whether the residents could not be consulted early, for example in the mining plans. I came up with my vision of environmental management earlier this year. In this context, in line with what Mr Kuiper says, I have indicated the importance of involving the environment in energy projects at an early stage. This is a task for the government and for the initiators. Any concerns about a planned mining activity should be addressed in the lead path. If an activity is considered necessary and desirable, governments and initiators must do justice to the views of the people in an area by addressing them, by indicating how they have been judged and by letting them know what is or is not done with it. Residents are thus involved at that time and also later, whenever permits are to be issued. A first point of view can be made. If one does not agree with the response to that view, one can go to the Council of State. That can happen a number of times in the process. The sum total of government and initiators involved at the beginning and the repeated legal possibilities of participation with a professional capacity are a good whole to do justice to what Mr Kuiper has advocated. Mrs Vos wondered who is testing the criteria of the law relating to the environmental impact assessment, which is mandatory in projects where more than 500 000 m of natural gas is extracted. Who will see to it that more or less than 500,000 m is won? The environmental impact assessment is mandatory when applying for an environmental permit if more than 500 000 m of natural gas may be extracted. The environmental impact assessment is also mandatory if less than 500 000 m of natural gas may be extracted but a project does meet the criteria set out in Annex 3 of the EU Directive on environmental impact assessment. These criteria relate to the characteristics of a specific project, such as the method of extraction and the vulnerability of the environment, for example when it comes to a water extraction area. The Minister for Economic Affairs, therefore, I, will review those criteria. If it is complied with, an environmental impact assessment will also be required in the case of less than 500 000 m of natural gas. Depending on the circumstances, this is the case. Mr Dercksen said that the coordination of licensing as outlined in the legislative proposal is okay, but he wondered where the citizen is. I have just indicated where the citizen is in that process and how he can be involved in various ways, with views and professions, at an early stage and in a number of subsequent stages. Mr Dercksen asked if I could explain why nature and environmental organisations should be allowed to cut trees for windmills in Natura 2000 areas, but mining companies should not be allowed to win. Apart from the details of that question, my view is that the effects of a particular activity should always be assessed in advance. After that, there must be a balance of interests. Only then can there be decision-making. The final assessment of the implementation of an Natura 2000 site activity should also include the conservation objectives for the site concerned. So you have to see if what you're doing in such an area is in line with our ambitions for maintaining the quality of that area. It is therefore not the case that something should not be done in advance, whether it is about cutting trees, placing windmills or carrying out mining activities. It is not the case that Natura 2000 sites are by definition excluded. It is only a question of maintaining quality and of assessing whether or not something can be done. I think this is a good procedure. It would not be good if we excluded these Natura 2000 sites altogether from activities, or if we were to say that much more activities could take place in these Natura 2000 sites than is currently permitted. Mrs. Vos asked me how I look at drilling from the coast below the Wadden region. I think she also means drilling from the high seas obliquely under the Wadden region. Shackling drillings under the Wadden Sea are only permitted under strict conditions, which are laid down in the structural vision Wadden Sea. They are only allowed if the natural values in the Wadden Sea are not damaged. In order to ensure this, an extensive measurement and monitoring programme shall apply under the supervision of an independent audit committee. If a natural value is at risk, the extraction is limited or stopped. We call that the "hand-to-the-crane principle." I think this is an excellent principle. We have now said from the coastal zone north of the Wadden Islands, the whole world heritage area, that there is no more extraction. Drilling it obliquely from another area under the Wadden Sea, we only do so in the way that we have legally established and to which we have attached conditions. Mrs Teunissen asked me to make a proposal to exclude protected world heritage and Natura 2000 sites from mining activities. I have indicated how we look at this. For that area itself, we have made the proposals before us. No new mining works can be set up there. There are opportunities to do it from the sides within the balancing framework I have just outlined. Mrs Vos asked if I would issue search or extraction permits for the Wadden region, given my claim that we need to get rid of the gas. We must get rid of gas, oil and coal insofar as they cannot be used in such a way as to eliminate CO emissions. We need to achieve this in a longer transitional period. During this transitional period, we must keep things in hand and going. We will need fossil energy carriers for that. Gas is the cleanest fossil energy carrier and will therefore have to play an important role under conditions for the time being. Mrs Meijer asked if I would exclude detection and extraction in drinking water supply areas. On the use of the subsurface, I have worked with my colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment, in consultation with the local authorities, on a structural vision for the subsurface in recent years. He was sent to the House of Representatives on 18 November and is currently being consulted. This structural vision focuses on mining activities and groundwater extraction for drinking water, as these activities have a national interest. The draft structure vision stipulates that mining activities should not take place in the current drinking water collection areas, in groundwater protection areas and in the drilling-free zones around existing winputs. The detection or extraction of minerals or geothermal energy is not allowed in these areas, but it is allowed inclined drilling, which I have just mentioned. I'm going to the last block with several other points. I'm asking if you could take a short break, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u84	Five minutes, or two minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u85	Five minutes is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u86	Once again, I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u87	Madam President. Mr Dercksen and Mr Ten Hoeve discussed the situation in Limburg. Let me tell you what the situation in Limburg is like at the moment. In Limburg, coal mining has taken place for centuries. In the municipality of Kerkrade there are 50 to 55 historical shafts. These are often wells, sometimes several dozen meters deep, which have been dug vertically. Furthermore, in that area there are six industrial shafts, horizontal shafts. There is concern in Kerkrade about possible sinkings, problems with groundwater and everything related to it. I have asked a very renowned German institute to examine the situation thoroughly. That institute has been working on this for almost a year and has produced an excellent report on it. It's done all kinds of fieldwork, but it's also done archival work. There's been a good report. I submitted that report to the Coal Authority in England, which also has a great deal of expertise in this area. He advised me on that. Finally, I have had a separate study of how the pumps that pumped up the groundwater have been stopped. So I had a good overall picture of what was going on in the area in question. The report was not alarming, by the way. A number of recommendations have been made, but if they are properly followed, the situation can be kept manageable. I discussed this with the provincial and municipal authorities in the area and agreed with them on an approach. This approach means that the recommendations made will be followed. The resources needed to achieve this, measurement equipment and the like, I am responsible for all of them. I will make sure that what needs to be done in the area becomes possible and that the resources are made available for that. Furthermore, I leave the execution to the province and the municipalities. They have the most sense of it, are closest to it, have the most interest in it and also have the most direct contact with the people in the area. We have agreed on this division of roles together. This is what we agreed on. If the various shafts I spoke about are examined and the conclusion is that something must be done that is proportionate, then we do so and then we pay it from Economic Affairs. We have found that the problem of groundwater quality, groundwater levels and groundwater levels is manageable. We will monitor and monitor that. If there is a need for something that we do not now foresee, we will discuss it and then we will find a solution together. I think it is right that the authorities in this area have come to the same conclusion. This is also very important for the people in the area. For possible damages occurring, there is the Mining Damage Guarantee Fund. If there is damage and it is clear who caused that damage, then the company in question must compensate for that damage. However, some companies no longer exist. In that case, we can no longer claim the damage on them. In that case, there is the guarantee fund. Any damage will have to be compensated for. If there is insufficient money in the guarantee fund, it will have to be replenished by the sector again to an amount on the basis of which the further processing can take place. There is also a calamity fund. I set this up with the province over a year ago for situations where there is a need to intervene quickly. This fund has already been used in a number of cases. In consultation with the province, I have extended the possibilities of using that fund. If necessary, more can be done from the fund. In the next three months, if we continue to develop the measures with the province and municipalities, we will look at how we will proceed with this disaster fund in the future. It is also possible that we will then draw certain conclusions as to the size of this disaster fund. We will work together to find a good solution to this problem. I think this is how we got it right. Mrs. Meijer asked if there was enough money. I hope that I have made it sufficiently clear in the foregoing that it has been arranged in this way. Mrs Klip and Mr Flierman asked for one window for mining damage. In Groningen, people now know where they can go, namely at the Safe Living Centre. The view of the House of Representatives was that there should also be a one-stop shop for the rest of the country. A motion has been tabled on this subject, which I have carried out. This means that as of January 1st, this single point of contact will be accessible, also via the website ruralstoopmijnbouwschade.nl. There you can get all the information you need. Contacts with those involved are sought to tell them where to go with a certain amount of damage. It is therefore clear. The point of contact shall not bear any substantive responsibility for the settlement of claims and for the assessment of claims. It does ensure that the citizen is not confused, but can go to one place and is referred from there to the place where he has to report her or his damage. Mrs Klip asked me if I could tell you when the knowledge programme effects mining will be a fact. That programme will also start in January 2017. The research programme is in concept. In January, further coordination will take place with the National Coordinator Groningen to ensure that questions about the effects of mining activities on the part of the National Coordinator Groningen can also form part of the knowledge programme. The National Coordinator is involved in a lot of things and also has views and questions. The knowledge programme focuses specifically on the risks of mining in the Netherlands, including gas extraction. The knowledge network is independent of government and industry, is supervised by an independent scientific board and will develop relevant, authoritative knowledge. In order to ensure that the research programme referred to by Mrs Klip actually contributes to knowledge development, I appoint a scientifically authoritative and independent committee of experts. In addition to quality assurance, it will provide support for the programme and will ensure that the results of the research are disseminated. In this way, the Committee will contribute to accelerating knowledge development in the field of the effects of mining. We know with each other that we are primarily concerned with the extraction of natural gas. In this way independent knowledge will become available, which will enable us to assess the risks of mining authoritatively and independently of the mining companies. That is of the utmost importance. There was a crisis of confidence in Groningen. There is still a crisis of confidence in Groningen. People's trust must be regained. We want to regain confidence, first and foremost by reducing gas extraction as much as possible. We reduced it by half. We have found that, compared to 2011, seismicity has been halved. In the meantime, we have arranged that between the damage detector and the NAM the Centre for Safe Living and the National Coordinator are active. We will clarify the roles of these three parties. There are still a lot of things that need to happen in Groningen. We are not ready with the three legislative proposals currently under discussion, but with these legislative proposals we are contributing to a further improvement in the quality of the work of the government in Groningen in the field of the problem in Groningen, in order to do justice to the people in Groningen. I can see from the spokesmen's approach that they have approached this in a positive way. I can assure them that if these proposals become law, I will do my best to manage things further in the spirit of these laws and, of course, in the letter of the law. Once again, I say to Mr Flierman that if we find in the interim that further improvements and changes are possible and desirable, I will not hesitate to come back to the Chamber with proposals to settle them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u88	Thank you, Minister. We have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u89	Mr. Chairman. Involuntarily, my thoughts went back to the same evening exactly a year ago when we also had a debate in this Chamber with this minister. In any case, I am pleased to conclude that there is a much more pleasant outcome to this debate. I thank the Minister for his answer to our questions. In the opinion of the CDA Group, this is adequate. I'd like to bring forward three more things. I note that the Minister has said that he will come forward with proposals to further optimise the procedures for dealing with damages. I would just like to mention, on the assumption that the damage obligation remains with the NAM, that the Safe Living Centre will become an independent centre, that there will be a directing function at the National Coordinator Groningen, including the perseverance necessary to give that direction function proper hands and feet, and that the Minister will still consider whether a fund should be attached to it or another financial arrangement in order to obtain the funds for compensation. This is partly through legislation and partly through other measures, but I am confident that the Minister will put this into practice as soon as possible and as well as possible. We have specifically asked about the perverse or undesirable effects of certain arrangements. I assume the Minister will look into that when it comes to the matter. In any case, he has made a very explicit commitment that he will monitor whether the reversal of the burden of proof and everything related to it will lead to unwanted judicialisation. If that is the case, we will have to look again at whether this should lead to additional measures or other measures. The latter also applies to the fact that the limitation of the security area will ultimately be determined by the courts through a number of procedures. I still have the most concerns about that myself. This means that there will still be a lot of discussion and perhaps uncertainty among people. Legal procedures always have an element of uncertainty and disappointment in them. The minister says for a reason that he prefers to deal with it outside the courts as much as possible. In this case, therefore, there could still be judicialisation. But, as I said, we are very pleased with the Minister's commitment. Finally, I come to the licensing process. That is not the case in this Chamber. I have heard Mrs Vos argue in the first place that she actually believes that some aspects should be taken into account more clearly and more clearly in the licensing process. I've just expressed my concerns about that. At a number of times, the Minister told me that I had put my finger on the sore spot. I have not heard him say that in this case, but I have heard him say that the process has become rather complicated. The way I hear it, this too may well be a point of discussion. I note that, in my role as spokesman on the Environment Act, too, Mr Kamp's colleague, Mrs Schultz, clearly had a very different picture of the process of licensing and its simplification and streamlining than we now see in this legislation. I have a clear preference for the way it was designed in the Environment Act. Therefore, I do not want to rule out the possibility that we will discuss a further simplification of the licensing of mining activities in the near future. But for the moment, we are satisfied with the Minister's commitments. I will advise the group to vote in favour of the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u90	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his extremely comprehensive reply. He has dealt with virtually every aspect and has also tried to answer all kinds of questions in such a way that the only unrest there was can be removed. The Minister spoke about gas extraction in Groningen as a major social problem. I can say that he also sees it as an honorary debt to do justice to the people in that area. I would also like to thank him for his commitment to the incredibly difficult file he inherited. He's been very committed to that. In the first term, I have pointed out that in all probability, even if we would like to do otherwise, we will still be connected to the Groningen gas for a long time to come. This morning, when the debate began, we would have generated renewable energy for 62,000 people, but now at the end of the day we are less than 180,000. That is all renewable energy in the Netherlands, so solar energy, wind energy and biogas, which has been generated today. There is little wind and it is in winter, but it indicates exactly what problem there is left. We do not need a geopolitical debate today, but the value of our natural gas is still strategically important. A lot of initiatives are being taken. Mr Flierman referred to the unfortunate debate on wind at sea which took place last year. Even then, the Minister had to put all sorts of things into effect so that this Chamber could not get back on the right track for me. The real problem is not the homes or the individuals. The real problem is to organise industry and horticulture in a much more sustainable way, if we also want to work in this country. Many industries are struggling with this immense issue. The Minister recognizes that, too. He says: one of the four transition paths in the Energy Agenda is precisely that theme. After 2021, when a new decision has to be made on the extraction of gas, there will also be room to look at it in a new way. I hope we can anticipate that with each other. For example, it could be extremely beneficial if we could use the billions we have invested in gas infrastructure to convert it into hydrogen. This could be a very big and important step for Dutch society and industry. As far as I am concerned, we cannot invest in this early enough. I'll come to the damage settlement. The Minister acknowledges that many points can be improved. A lot is going well, but there are a number of points that really need to be improved. The same applies to the involvement of the NAM in the new and remodeling scheme. It concerns the perseverance of the National Coordinator and transparency, which does not exist in a number of dossiers. I mention, for example, the relationship between the Centre for Safe Living and the NAM. Those agreements are not public. The minister says he can't take care of that. I understand that, but it does lead to unrest and mistrust. The Minister noted that he would hopefully come up with a proposal during his period to at least unravel the relations in the handling, give the National Coordinator a firmer position, make the Centre Secure Living independent and let the NAM get the bill. That appeals to us very much. I believe that this is much clearer for the citizens and for the companies that are affected than the relationships they are today. The minister wasn't clear about the reinforcements. I conclude from that that he can't really be clearer than he is now. That's not an easy conclusion. The National Coordinator Groningen says it will be a huge task. That's all we know. There's no timeline. Contractors are ready, but a roll-out of the reinforcement notice that should have been completed by 2020 is not included. The Minister is not clear about that. That is why I am asking in a different way. What are the steps to arrive at a clear plan so that we can get started on that as soon as possible? In this context, I believe that the Minister also needs a buy-back scheme, not only to help people in need now, but also in relation to the call for reinforcement. 1,400 homes have been inspected. There are houses that, if you had to strengthen them, couldn't actually be strengthened because of the value. You don't get away from talking about a buy-back arrangement, because you just need it. We agree that we do not want a generic buy-back scheme. That's not what this morning was about either. I advocate a specific arrangement. I think it's necessary now in relation to the reinforcements. There are people in need now. There are now people who have other jobs outside the area and therefore have to leave. They're now with their hands in their hair. I'm not just saying that. That's what Provincial States of Groningen, Deputy States of Groningen and the King's Commissioner in Groningen say. They don't say that for nothing. Those people need help now. The housing market is recovering somewhat, but this is particularly true for the lowest category of housing. For the category that is slightly above it, that is by no means the case if you compare it with the reference area. On that point, I'm filing a motion. I believe that this can be an important contribution to the restoration of confidence, which the Minister rightly refers to. The President shall: Mr Pijlman, Mr Vos, Mr Teunissen, Mr Meijer, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Verheijen, Mr Dercksen and Mr Backer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the earthquakes in the province of Groningen leave behind the development of the housing market in the area, making it difficult for people to sell their homes;]] [[Whereas this gives some inhabitants the feeling of being locked up in their own homes;]] [[noting that in the past a pilot buy-back scheme was chosen, which focused on the amount to be spent, which meant that it was necessary to include those who were allowed to participate and wrongly excluded citizens;]] [[noting that this did not address the social problem of unsold properties in the earthquake zone, but even caused unrest rather than calm;]] [[calls on the government to follow up on the (pilot) buy-back scheme, thus helping people who are eligible for it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34041-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u91	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. He was clear on a number of issues surrounding the damage. We are also very happy that he wants an independent Safe Living Centre to deal with the damage, which means "independently" also independent of the NAM, that the National Coordinator Groningen should be the supervisor of the whole and that the NAM of course remains liable for damages. The Minister's working on that. He has promised the Chamber that he will keep her informed of the progress of the operation towards that independent Centre Safe Living. We are pleased with that. We are happy to await the reports. The second part concerns everything relating to licences. The Minister has clearly indicated that he is the one who grants the mining licence, as well as the search or exploration permit. He stated in the written reply that he would assess the overall impact on the safety of the inhabitants and the possible adverse effects on the environment and nature at the stage of the mining authorisation. Only in cases where it is clear that a given area is not suitable for drilling because of its adverse effects, there is a reason not to grant a permit. The Minister has also pointed out that this will not usually be the case and that only when the environmental plan is being discussed will it be clear where exactly it is going to be drilled, when it is clear how it is going to be shaped and what measures are being taken, there will be a very concrete assessment, including on safety and on nature and the environment. Then there may be reasons not to grant the licence. My group is left with the question of why there is only a global review, so I understood it in the first phase of the granting of the mining authorisation. It's the Minister's move. Why isn't the Minister doing what he can at the time? Then why does he not look as much as possible at the effects on nature and the environment and safety? Then why not look at whether it is really justified to grant the mining licence at that stage? I expressly ask the Minister to go into that again, because I find it strange that he makes it so clear that he will first only test globally and that he will actually do it later. I am pleased that the Minister has clearly indicated that a company which obtains a mining licence cannot derive any rights to drill in that area. The Minister has ruled that out, because for that the environmental permit is still absolutely necessary. We think that's important. I asked a specific question about the m.e.r. It will be dealt with in the environmental permit. The Minister has just indicated that. There are then a number of criteria for the quantity of oil to be extracted or the quantity of gas to be extracted. The Minister also states that in other cases there is always an obligation to check the selection criteria, as they follow from the European Directive. The minister is the one carrying out that review. However, certain case law shows that where there is an exploration or detection licence, there is a problem when the Minister does not apply an obligation to do so, because the Mining Directive does require participation and the Minister in the explanatory memorandum to the law, which today itself states that, in order to comply with it, he must use an extensive preparation procedure. At the moment, because there is no "e.g." requirement for the exploration permit, it does not in any case comply with the extended preparatory procedure on the assessment of environmental boundary conditions. The Minister is only testing one alternative, only the place where one wants to drill. I think it is crucial for the Minister to go into that again. Does he not see that an M.E.R. obligation or any other specific review at the time of the search permit is absolutely necessary? I'd like some clarity on that point. As far as I am concerned, when it comes to a unique and special area such as the Wadden Sea, there is every reason to stop all drilling, including the drillings that fall obliquely from the sea or from land under the Wadden Sea. The Minister said: I simply need that, because in the transition phase we still need gas. To be honest, my group does not consider that to be a convincing argument. As far as we are concerned, you should certainly say for that area: we are not going to use this gas anymore; we are going to come up with alternatives to that. Finally, I come to the reversal of the burden of proof or the presumption of legal evidence. We regret the restrictions imposed on the original amendment. We continue to find it unusual to say that there is a 'whoever states, proves' rule, which is normal and if you want to deviate from it, that is very exceptional. In our neighbouring countries, but also in various judgments of the Supreme Court, it is very often said that it is not always 'who states, proves'. The Minister said that this would be a question of individual judicial review. In this case, it is a larger overall scheme. There seems to be the difference, but my group still wonders whether there is no legal inequality, for example where only physical damage is concerned, which is now covered by this legal presumption of evidence. There are, of course, all kinds of other forms of damage, such as psychological damage, which has just been mentioned by several spokesmen. Furthermore, I call damage because you have to close your store for a while because it has failed and so you have no sales. There's all kinds of damage to come up with. Surely there is no question of legal inequality, since the Minister does not take it with him? Can there be any legal inequality if other parts of the Netherlands, where damage can indeed be caused to a greater extent by mining activities, are excluded in advance from this legal presumption of evidence and that this only applies in the case of gas extraction? My group continues to have a problem with that. Nevertheless, we consider this Mining Act to be a number of steps ahead of what was going on. So we will not abstain from supporting this bill, but we would very much like to await the Minister's answer to a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u92	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I thank him for the information on Limburg. I would like to thank Mr Pijlman for being kind enough to emphasise how uneconomic wind energy is and how uneconomic solar energy is. Even if we set up 100 more wind farms, if it doesn't blow, we don't have any power. Even if we fill the whole country with solar panels, when the sun goes down, we have no power. Then I'm thinking, how are we going to charge all these cars in 2035? There's still a lot of confidence to be regained in Groningen. I believe that the dominant role of the NAM still plays a role in this. I hope that the Minister will take adequate measures to regain Groningen's confidence. There's another question open from my first term. It concerns the amendment of the Mining Act on the withdrawal of existing permits. When it comes to physical safety and serious environmental pollution, the Minister finds us on his side to withdraw a permit, but how can we prevent an unfounded aversion to fossil energy from being a reason to withdraw an existing permit? There can, of course, be all kinds of arguments that may or may not be provable, about climate and nature and the environment. I asked the Minister in my first term if he could frame this more firmly. I'd like to hear that from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u93	Mr. Chairman. My group would like to thank the Minister for his very thorough and careful reply. Our questions are also largely answered. I have one element on which I would like to ask one more question in this second term, namely the role of citizens, the citizen perspective, which is, after all, taken into account in the decision-making process of mining activities in a structural and recognisable way. I am talking about the place of municipalities. It concerns local feelings, local control and local participation. The Minister has responded to this. Thank you for that. He discussed the licensing system and the steps it takes. He has indicated that there is always a role for governments: provinces and municipalities, of course next to the Empire, which is ultimately decisive in this regard. For provinces there is an advisory role. I indicated that the role of municipalities in the phase of search and extraction permits is much more indirect and I asked: is that so? Can't you do it more directly? The Minister indicated in the reply that if there is a search and extraction permit, he would like to come up with a step that is not there yet, but which will soon be supplemented, namely an environmental permit. I assume that's why the local government is fully involved and in the picture. So I would have liked to have confirmed that, or at least to have an answer to that. That is the moment when, after the province has already spoken, the municipality can also play a role itself. The next phase is that of the extraction plan. These are specific activities. Then it really goes towards exploitation. Then there's another environmental test, so the minister indicated. There is also room for consultation and participation and a role for municipalities. I would have liked to have that image confirmed and strengthened. I am particularly concerned that when this decision-making process and these licensing steps are completed, this does not take place above those municipalities and the local population, but that at that stage they have the opportunity to speak and have the right to be consulted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u94	Mr. Chairman. I have outlined how people in Groningen are doing: living with a suitcase at the bottom of the stairs and a house that is unsaleable. I also mention the emotional damage and the goodwill damage. The minister here tonight says he doesn't want to disturb the structure. I think it would be wise to bring air into that structure. Whoever wants to leave must be able to leave and get a fair price for his house. Whoever has damage must be taken care of and not harassed by an intimidating NAM. The strengthening of houses must now be tackled vigorously. We must not forget the fact that there is a great deal of delay. The SP supports the proposals in this direction and welcomes the commitment on the independence of the Safe Living Centre. Then I'll come to Limburg. The Minister again emphasizes those common similar damages cases with clearly the same cause and appoints Groningen as an exceptional case. My point is that this is also the case in Limburg. I wonder what the judge's gonna say when someone in there is claiming legal injustice. The Minister refers to the guarantee fund when operators are no longer there. That is, of course, very nice, but I wish people would not get caught up in a lengthy procedure if the operator is still traceable. It seems to me very good and very reasonable to have a mine damage fund, which is well-stocked, partly by the operators, from which it can be used. Moreover, I have not received any answers to my questions on the limitation period. I find it disappointing that the Minister is cramped to hold on to the 24 billion cube and let other matters prevail over people's safety. At least it's very clear whose side he's on. The need for this 24 billion cube has remained unclear to me. The Minister did not answer my question about the intensification of gas-free construction. Nor the accelerated setting of the nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek. The Minister shows himself as we know him. He doesn't admit it easily, and I'm sorry, because it could bring him goodwill. My final appeal is therefore that he is showing himself on his human side and making this great law, which is crucial for so many people, a little bit more just.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u95	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. I would also like to thank him for the clear explanation of the definition of the reversal of the burden of proof and the guarantee of equality of justice. My group agrees with that, but obviously keeps a finger on the wrist in case the scope does not prove to be large enough. Let me turn to the issue of licensing. Drills in the Wadden Sea Area and in Natura 2000 Noorzee Coastal Zone will no longer be possible by law if these laws are passed. The Wadden region may still be drilled, as well as other Natura 2000 sites and World Heritage sites. This still entails major risks of degradation of nature areas, such as the risk of leakage and the risk of soil degradation. The drilling facilities necessary to extract from these areas cannot be placed just outside the border of protected natural areas, even though they are just outside the protection regime. The current policy is not on the edge, but on the edge. The risks to nature reserves are so great that my group says that we cannot afford to do so in relation to animals, nature, the environment and future generations. We would therefore like to see drilling in Natura 2000 sites and nature reserves with a world heritage status excluded from extraction. I had asked the Minister to come up with a proposal to exclude new drillings in and under Natura 2000 sites and World Heritage Sites. The Minister has made it clear that government policy does not exclude mining. We regret that. We know the NAM's hand-to-the-crane policy, in which the NAM has the freedom to turn the crane more open or shut down, but the Animal Party believes that the hand-to-the-crane policy should mean that the crane can be shut down in vulnerable areas by the parliament. A little close or a little open should not be left to companies like the NAM. In fact, there should at least be a no-unless there should be a policy for mining activities in protected areas. As far as we are concerned, there is no such thing as a gap in the current legislation. The decision whether or not to drill into a nature reserve is a heavy responsibility which Parliament must at least be able to verify at any time. The decision to grant an investigative licence for mining activities in other natural areas with Natura 2000 status or a world heritage status actually creates a no-unless a policy to better safeguard the protection of vulnerable natural areas without casting it into iron and concrete. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos, Mr Meijer, Mr Strik and Mr Gerkens proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Natura 2000 sites and natural areas with a world heritage status deserve protection;]] [[Whereas mining activities may threaten these sensitive areas by the risk of soil degradation, pollution and disturbance;]] [[calls on the Government to make the granting of new search permits for mining activities in or under natural areas with a Natura 2000 status and/or a world heritage status subject to explicit parliamentary approval,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34041-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u96	Finally. In the light of the energy transition, the Minister has challenged me to say something about the construction of manure digesters and the framing of manure digesters as a sustainable solution. The Minister has just said a eulogy on this. I will be brief, because we are going to talk about this, but I would like to make one thing clear: manure digesters do not supply green electricity, but are based on an ever-growing brown stream from the livestock industry. There's nothing green about that; it's pure greenwashing. For this bio-industry, rainforests are harvested for animal feed and more CO is emitted than by all traffic and transport combined. The animals are kept in stables year round to collect the manure and neighbors suffer from smell. We have to go to 70% less cattle and therefore 70% less manure. The minister's eulogy is a eulogy for the fossil age. Germany has been active in renewable energy without manure fermentation and with windmills and solar panels. Let us do the same. I have not heard a scenario from the Minister without fertilisers and I call on him to do everything in his power to draw up such a scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u97	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive and adequate response. He ended by saying that we should try to regain the confidence of the Groningen people. I am also convinced that he will do his best. The loss of that confidence was, of course, mainly due to the way in which the damage was handled. I have to say that the reply and honesty of the Minister, for which we have had to make some effort, have made it clear that the feeling that prevailed in a lot of people, that the long arm of the NAM has always been recognizable, has proved to be correct. I am very pleased that the Minister intends to put an end to this now. The determination of the damage and of the compensation must be completely independent. I think the Minister is right to make it very clear to the public that he will achieve that. So much for the damage settlement. The Minister remains unclear about the call for reinforcement. In my opinion, there is also a dilemma. We want to win 24 billion cubs. This means that there will be tremors and therefore insecurity for years to come, and that there will need to continue to be strengthening. The strengthening will take many years to come, and that means that it is irresponsible to win so much more with the result that this insecurity continues to exist. That's a circle that doesn't make sense. I am afraid that the Minister currently has no solution to that dilemma. I can't wait to see how that develops. As the Minister himself says, this depends above all on what will ultimately prove necessary for strengthening. With regard to the buy-back arrangement, I agree with the motion that has been tabled. I signed that motion, too. I think that Mr Pijlman has said enough about this and I am happy to join him in that. As far as Limburg is concerned, I am pleased that the Minister has explained very comprehensively what has happened there. I am convinced that in this way he has fully taken responsibility for this, in consultation with the province and municipalities. I have one small question about that. The minister calls the guarantee fund. This is, of course, very important in terms of compensation to individuals. The minister said that if it goes empty, the guarantee fund must be supplemented by the sector. But in this case, what is the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u98	Mr. Chairman. We also thank the Minister for answering the technically complex and socially sensitive issues we have discussed today. We had a little debate about the position of our gas building and the role of the government in it. I felt that the Minister had some incomprehension about what is going on there in the role of licence holder on the one hand and owner on the other, of EBN, for example. I think it is a starting point in the Dutch administrative culture that we try to carry out the separation of roles as far as possible where necessary. I also referred to the opinions of the Security Research Council. Of course, the government has taken on board many of the opinions of the Research Council, but not on this point with regard to the position of SodM. I understand from the additional reply that the Minister then made in his speech that he is indeed striving for greater transparency in that gas building and that he wants to re-assess the roles that are at stake there. I trust his commitment to achieving that divorce and making the responsibilities better than they have been in recent years. I think that the reference to the phasing out of gas production is insufficient, because we also understood from his speech that we have a source of energy there that we will have to use for years to come. However, it is important to review the gas building as it has operated over the past 50 years. Secondly, in replying to the question of case law concerning the definition of the area of impact, the Minister said that the judge would have the final say on it. That seems obvious. My question was whether an explicit mandate was given in the knowledge programme or whether it was given to further identify the areas of impact in a long-term research programme, so that these motivations can be used in legal proceedings. If there is scientific agreement and consensus as to the justification of the potential impact areas, this could lead to a faster handling of procedures. I understand that the answer to Mrs Klip was that attention will be paid to this. I'd like to hear that again explicitly. Thirdly, I welcome the promise that we will be offered the multiannual programme on the long-term perspective. Of course, I haven't seen that yet. I assume that the governance agreement, Trust in Restoration and Restoration of Trust, which ends in mid-2018, will be extended at the right time on the basis of the proposals made in the multiannual programme. Finally, our group has a dilemma, because the Minister has indeed given us commitments which we are very pleased with when it comes to the settlement of claims, the position of the National Coordinator, the neutralization of the position of the NAM and the independence of the position of the CVW. What makes us somewhat uncertain is the pace at which the proposals are presented to the States-General. The Minister mentioned July 2017 as the first moment when the cabinet can submit proposals to the Lower House. We wonder whether it would not be wise to adopt a motion on this point to say that we support the Minister's policy on this matter. The principles set out by the Minister are perfectly in line with what has been said in this Chamber. That's why I'm filing this motion. The President shall: Mr Verheijen, Mr Barth, Mr Beuving, Mr Nooren and Mr Sini proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas as a result of gas extraction in Groningen there is still an increase in material and psychological damage;]] [[Whereas, in view of the need for a clear and vigorous approach to the settlement of claims, there is a desire to neutralize the role of the Centre for Safe Living (CVW) and the NAM and to strengthen the position of the National Coordinator Groningen (NCG) in this process;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible, to come forward with proposals providing the NCG with leverage in the event of damages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34041-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u99	Mr. Chairman. The members of the VVD Group also thank the Minister for his detailed and detailed reply. We very much appreciate the Minister's motivation to continue working on a transition to a fossil-poor society. Let me come back to the very first part of the debate. We, too, are very convinced of the Minister's desire to work continuously to improve the procedures for dealing with damages and, in particular, to ensure that the roles of the various partners involved are clearly divided. In particular, we are talking about the Centre for Safe Living. We have one question for the Minister. It is a bit along the lines of, or perhaps parallel to, the motion just tabled by Mr Verheijen. The Minister has indicated to us that the government is also thinking of realising or organising more perseverance for the National Coordinator Groningen and that this is a legislative proposal for the Council of State. Although we trust the Minister 100%, our question is whether he can give a little more clarity, lift a hint of the veil, about what the government is thinking when it comes to giving more perseverance to the National Coordinator. That was actually decided in my first-term question. We await the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u100	I ask the Minister if he has the opportunity to reply directly. I see that's the case. Then I'll ask him if he thinks he could do that in half an hour. I note that this is also going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u101	I do not yet have Mr Verheij's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u102	He's on his way. It's under the copier. Here comes Mr Verheijen with a copy. He'll hand it over to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u103	Mr. Chairman. I agree with what Mr Flierman said. I think he was right to warn about a number of things. He said something about the risks of perverse incentives. I recognize that risk. That's what I'm paying attention to. He talked about optimising the damage handling process. I agree with him. I also agree with what he said about the licensing process. Mr Pijlman has indicated that we are at the beginning of a long process of transition to renewable energy. Mr Pijlman will agree with what I am doing at the moment. I made 9 billion grant commitments this year that will be paid out over a period of 15 years. I expect to make $12 billion in licensing commitments next year. At the beginning of this cabinet period, we were below 4% of renewable energy. I will ensure that we are at 14% by 2020 and that the movement remains in place afterwards. We'll be at 16% in 2023. I'll make sure that happens. With the Energy Agenda for the period after that, we have also set out the lines. As an example, I mentioned wind at sea. We're about to realize 700 MW five times. We will then realize seven times 1,000 MW, because I think it is really necessary to use a wide range of renewable energy opportunities to achieve what is ultimately to be achieved. Mr Pijlman rightly said that the major problem lies in industry and horticulture. I myself think it is to a lesser extent in horticulture. I see opportunities there to divert CO that normally goes into the air like garbage and bring it to the greenhouses. That is precisely where CO is needed for the growth of the plants. In addition, I see many possibilities to use geothermal energy to heat greenhouses. It is very impressive that the initiatives for this are taken by the gardeners themselves. We ourselves are engaged in very deep geothermal energy. We want to extract very hot water from the subsurface and then use it for industry. In this way, we hope to offer some alternative to industry. The major problem Mr Pijlman raises is a serious one. He has indicated the need to look closely at the possibilities of using the gas infrastructure for hydrogen. I think that's a fair point. In the further work we need to do on innovation and investment programmes, we need to look very closely at this point. I will certainly take that task of Mr Pijlman with me in the further development. It seems to me to be a justified remark. Mr Pijlman spoke about the settlement of claims, the new building regime, the power of perseverance and transparency. I have said the necessary things about compensation; I am going to say something about it in a moment. We have been able to give an adequate follow-up to the new construction scheme. There is now a new building scheme and for the future new construction we have been able to make agreements with the municipalities and the province. So the National Coordinator did a good job of doing so. When it comes to perseverance, I immediately look at Mr Verheij's motion on letter K. Mr Verheijen asked for proposals to be put forward that would give the National Coordinator Groningen perseverance in the case of damages. Let me say two things to Mr Verheijen. The first is that there is already a proposal before the Council of State. I was talking about July next year. I have the ambition to have the whole thing settled. This means treatment in both the First and Second Chambers. That's very ambitious. If the House of Representatives declares anything controversial, it will be off the agenda anyway. I can very well imagine that the Lower House and the Upper House, who are very aware of the problem in Groningen and also want to contribute to solving this problem, come to the conclusion that the bill now before the Council of State is worth dealing with quickly. I am very willing to do so, and I will therefore be happy to work with both chambers of the States-General to have the matter dealt with before July next year. I would like to see Mr Verheijen and others' motion for a resolution. Explain as follows: I have to submit a bill to ensure that the National Coordinator is given a firmer and legally anchored position and that in practice he has the powers to move forward when it is really necessary. If that is the intention of the motion by Mr Verheijen and others. I would like the House to give its opinion on this. Mr Pijlman spoke about transparency in the relationship between the NAM and the Centre for Safe Living. I actually agree with him on that. If we separate damages and damages and opt for public direction, then the relationship between them must also be clear. So I see that as an assignment from Mr Pijlman, whom I would like to carry out. Mr Pijlman and others said that I am not clear enough with regard to the reinforcement. I realize that myself. I'm concerned about what's going on there with the reinforcements. I am concerned about all those people who are sitting in their homes, who haven't asked for anything and have been worried for a long time about what's happening to their homes, their territory and the earthquakes that have been there and that will still be there. People need to get out of their homes for reinforcements now. I'm really worried about the task we're facing. I welcome the commitment of the National Coordinator to do so quickly and carefully at the same time. He also sees this as a care towards individual families. I very much agree with him. He and I also believe that this care must lead to speed and that we will go through the process we have to go through within the shortest possible time. Moreover, I believe that we should also include new information in the strengthening process on the strength of the earthquakes to be taken into account in relation to the NPR. It's a complicated process. I'm worried about it. It is right that the National Coordinator, the staff at my ministry and myself are well aware of this and are working on it. I think we will have to talk about this at different times, on several occasions. Mr Pijlman asked what steps we should take in the reinforcement process. He said the minister wasn't clear enough. Let me help him. Which steps should we go through? Basically, it's only three steps. The first is inspections. We need to know exactly what needs to be done. The second is: consultation with the people. It is absolutely necessary to consult with all people, as much as is necessary. The third is to ensure that it is carried out properly and responsibly. I have in mind that the end result must be that Groningen gets a bit better. It is not enough if the people in Groningen are compensated for their misery and put into a safe situation. No, against everything they've had to collect, there's got to be some extras. So with the National Coordinator, I look at all the topics that are at issue to see what the possibilities are for doing extra things for Groningen. A small example of this is that the national test site for 5G.... is a very important development in the future.... in Groningen. There are very interesting developments about that process in Groningen. The Chamber knows that I have been allowed to open a Google branch in Groningen. The province and the municipality have worked very hard for this. I think we really have opportunities to achieve positive things in Groningen. It is one of the most beautiful areas of the country, with an ancient history. It is an area near a beautiful city, which is also very attractive. It is an area in which large international companies are willing to realize the most sensitive server equipment for the Internet industry. I think that these are the starting points for improving the area. Mr Pijlman spoke about the buying-in scheme. The motion on letter I is about that. In his motion, Mr Pijlman says that the government should follow up on the pilot buy-back scheme, helping people who are eligible for it. I intend not to create any unnecessary difference between the First Chamber and me when it comes to the buy-back scheme. I also think that we should do things to make the housing market in Groningen work normally compared to the so-called reference areas. I can very well imagine that a buy-back scheme plays a role in this. I do not know how that should be done and who exactly can be helped with it. I would like to look at this in the light of the evaluation that is taking place. It is quite conceivable that the evaluation will show that there must be a buy-back scheme in one form or another, which will help a number of people, with the aim of ultimately allowing the housing market to function normally there. If I may give this explanation to the motion, if it is in accordance with what Mr Pijlman and the co-signators of the motion mean, then I shall also leave this motion to the House. Mrs Vos spoke about only the global assessment of natural and environmental aspects in a first phase. I would like to inform Mrs Vos that these aspects are assessed five times, where there is actually five times the opportunity to come up with views and go to the Council of State if you disagree. It is a very complex, long-term and extensive procedure. I think I have to make an effort to justify how complex it is and how extensive it is. I do that by making sure that certain aspects get all the attention when they really matter, and that if they matter a little less, they get attention in a different way. The different procedures should also be as consistent as possible and aligned as possible. That way, I can defend it. It is good that we always have an overview of all the relevant aspects, including the nature and the environment, and can also do justice to the extent that this is reasonable. I have one more point to add to Mrs Vos. The search permit must be bored. Mrs Vos says that on the basis of the M.E.R. Directive there is therefore an M.E.R. should be done. To be quite precise: in the case of drilling, it is necessary under the M.E.R. Directive to carry out an assessment of whether there is an M.E.R. should be done. In order to assess this, the mining company must provide a note indicating the possible adverse environmental effects. The exact location of the drilling in relation to any natural areas and the expected effects on them should be considered. On the basis of that note, I have to decide if there is a full m.e.r. must be carried out, yes or no. This will be the case, for example, if there is cumulation with other projects or if the disadvantages for a Natura 2000 site cannot be excluded in advance. Then there will be an m.e.r. must be carried out. The directive therefore requires an assessment of whether an M.E.R. must be carried out. I will always check whether this is necessary on the basis of the mining company's note. If so, I'll make it happen. The environmental permit is then followed. So first you get the BOLO, then you get an environmental permit. This is a public procedure in which everyone has the opportunity to speak and express an opinion. In this way, I believe that we are complying with exactly what is stated in the M.E.R. Directive and that we are doing what is necessary in a material way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u104	Mrs. Vos, it's an So short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u105	I have just asked about the European Mining Directive. My question was whether the legislative proposal as it stands is in line with this at the time of granting the operating licence. I might be able to get an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u106	I will check whether the answer I gave to Mrs Vos is the correct answer to her question. I will be able to understand that with her too. If I come to the conclusion that the answer is not sufficient, I will go into this issue separately in a letter to the Chamber in order to clarify this point requested by Mrs Vos. As far as the Wadden Sea is concerned, Mrs Vos, Mrs Teunissen and I have not reached the same conclusion. The same goes for Mrs Meijer. It's about tilting under the Wadden Sea. In the vicinity of the Wadden Sea, the North Sea coastal zone, the Wadden Islands themselves and the Wadden Sea itself, mining installations can no longer be installed, but gas can still be extracted from existing platforms, such as Ameland. That's where gas can be fed. In addition, from outside the area can be drilled obliquely. But that tilted drilling can only take place if it does not have a negative impact on the Wadden Sea area. This is monitored through the hand-to-the-crane principle. I think that's enough. This is also included in the present laws. I take note of the fact that there is a different view of these spokesmen on this point, as was also the view of some of the House of Representatives on this point. Mrs. Vos has tabled a motion. It says that Natura 2000 sites and natural areas with world heritage status deserve protection and that these areas are under threat. It requests the government, the granting of new search permits...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u107	I don't think that was Mrs. Fox's motion. That's Mrs Teunissen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u108	Excuse me, Madam President. You're giving me the opportunity to fix a mistake. I now turn to the motion tabled by Mrs Teunissen. I therefore refer to the Teunissen and Others motion, which has been co-signed by Mrs Vos, in which she asks the government to make the granting of new investigative licences for mining activities conditional on the explicit consent of Parliament. The present legislative proposals, the Mining Act, the Law on General Environmental Law and the Nature Protection Act provide a legal framework for the granting of mining and environmental permits in Natura 2000 sites and areas with world heritage status. I'm bound by that framework. It is up to the Chamber to check whether I am moving within that framework and whether I am acting how I should act within that framework. An explicit consent mixes the role of the government with that of the Chamber. Look, I'm part of the executive board. I need to make sure things are done and I need to be controlled by the Chamber. I also have to grant the permits. It would not be good for Parliament to sit in my seat, because who would have to control it? I have to do it and the parliament has to control me. I would like to maintain these relations in this way. I think that's important to our democracy. That is why I reject Mrs Teunissen's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u109	Mrs Teunissen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u110	Yes, very briefly. But it's not like there's gonna be a mix-up, is it? Checking is exactly what Parliament is doing here. The government wants to issue an APB. Instead of initiating this procedure, there will be an additional step, namely the granting of parliamentary approval. That's an extra means of control, I think. But maybe we'll just disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u111	No, I think Mrs Teunissen, with all due respect, is wrong. If, in the end, every decision requires explicit parliamentary approval, this means that the final decision is actually taken by the parliament. Then what I do, what the government does, is prepare for decision-making by parliament. That's not the point. Parliament, as co-legislator with the government, adopts the laws. The government has to operate within those laws. It is then controlled by Parliament. What Mrs Teunissen is asking for with this motion would confuse things. Mr Kuiper spoke about the citizen perspective. He indicated that if the environmental permit is granted, it is important that the municipality also comes into view. I think he was quite right to say that. The environmental permits are not granted by the municipality, but by me, by the Minister of Economic Affairs. Before I can issue that environmental permit, I'm asking the municipality for a statement of no reservations. I must therefore ask the municipality whether it has any reservations about my proposed decision to grant an environmental permit. If the municipality comes up with such a statement of reservations, I may only deviate from that well motivated. In this way, even though the permit is granted by me and despite the fact that everyone, including the municipalities, can argue against it through views, there is also a separate involvement of the municipalities in advance. In this way, we contribute to improving the citizen's perspective, as advocated by Mr Kuiper on previous occasions. Mrs Vos regrets the restrictions on the presumption of evidence. It has been told that these restrictions are in line with what has been put forward by the Council of State. Mrs Vos will also be aware that all damage must be compensated, something I have expressly said. Furthermore, we have adequate legislation on this compensation, and in addition, in our country the judge himself decides who has the burden of proof. The court may decide that a mining company shall be assigned 100% of the burden of proof. If the judge considers that reasonable and necessary, he will certainly not ignore it. Mr Dercksen spoke about withdrawing existing licences. He said: it would be wrong to withdraw a mining permit on the basis of an unfounded aversion that exists in some fossil energy sources. Apart from the fact that I do not take over the phrase "an unsubstantiated aversion to fossil energy," I note that the safety and direction bill describes very precisely the possibilities of withdrawing a mining licence. I can't just do that. The principle of environmental withdrawal is one of the grounds for withdrawal. Then it's just about the environmental impact of mining. That would allow me to withdraw that permit. It is not at all the case that, on this basis, if there are any views on the use or non-use of gas or other fossil energy sources, I can withdraw permits. It's really about what's laid down in the law. I have developed the environmental example in this context, in response to Mr Dercksen's point. I went into what Mr Kuiper said about the citizen's perspective and the role of the municipalities in the environmental permit. I hope that has been satisfactory. Mrs Meijer spoke about Limburg. There should be the same action as in Groningen. I sincerely hope, and I trust, that we will not have to act in the same way as in Groningen. It would not be good for Limburg if they were faced with a similar problem there. No one, not even Mrs Meijer, wishes Groningen to, I am sure. What is now going on with damages is clear and certainly not about large numbers. The report following the extensive research carried out is to a large extent reassuring. However, it is necessary to do a number of things. We, as involved authorities, have a full willingness to do so together. Mrs Meijer spoke about the limitation period. I don't have any new information on that point. Mrs Meijer knows that we have had an investigation conducted by Utrecht University. This shows that in Germany and Belgium the limitation period is ten and twenty years. In the Netherlands, the limitation period is 30 years. The difference of opinion is whether the limitation period starts at the time of termination of coal extraction or at the time of termination of pumping up of mine water. That difference of opinion will undoubtedly be brought before the court. I think that's good. That is why I have agreed with the administrators in the area that we are waiting for that court ruling to be passed. On that basis, we will try to move forward together. Mrs Meijer says that I have not properly demonstrated the halving of gas extraction in Groningen to 24 billion cubic metres. I think I've shown that very extensively. It is based on an analysis of GTS, the company that has an insight into the minimum gas needs and is not bound by the NAM. Moreover, we have decided on that 24 billion cuub in accordance with the opinion of State surveillance of the Mines. I think that is very well and comprehensively hardened. Mrs Meijer also asked about the nitrogen plant. As I have informed the Chamber, there are several aspects to this which have not yet made it possible for the Cabinet to take a decision. I expect a decision to be taken on this in the first half of 2017 in the context of the formation of a new cabinet. Mrs Teunissen spoke of Natura 2000 sites, in which she felt there should be no drilling at all. I have taken this up on the basis of the motion that she has tabled. Mrs Teunissen continued to talk about manure fermenters. She has a view on this that I respect. I do not agree with her that we should go to 70% less cattle in the Netherlands. I do not feel that greenwashing is a negative concept in advance. If you can carry out economic activities in a sustainable way, that's fine. Even if you do that through greenwashing, I'm still fine with that. Mr Ten Hoeve stressed the importance of independent damage handling. I think that many in this Chamber, including myself, agree with him. He talked about the uncertainty that still exists in the area of reinforcement. I haven't been able to completely take that ambiguity away from him. I think that's a big task that we're all facing. We will ensure that we get a good idea of what needs to be done there, and that we will carry out what needs to be done responsibly to the inhabitants. About Limburg he wondered who, when the Guarantee Fund is empty, should fill it. That's a good question. That fund will probably have to be filled by those who are now gaining gas. That is not very obvious, because they really have nothing to do with it. But it is the mining sector. The fund will still have to be filled. We will look at the need for funding for that fund, and then we will do what is necessary to ensure that it is there. Mr Ten Hoeve is right to point the finger at a sensitive point. Mr Verheijen explained the licensing and transparency of the gas building by better separation of responsibilities. I agree with him. But the gas building has been in existence for about 60 years, with balance in relations and the outcome for the Empire being a financially beneficial one. With the aim of clarification, transparency and improvement, all partners need to look closely at their own interests and how they can be reasonably addressed in a more transparent situation. That is what the consultation is about. The aim of Mr Verheijen is, in the end, to have clearly separated the responsibilities for the gas building, which will be relevant for years to come in Groningen, and to make it transparent. That is an ambition of Mr Verheijen which I share. He spoke about the impact area and said that he believes that the impact area should be involved in the independent scientific knowledge programme that is being set up. This also applies to the basis for decision-making and the legal rulings that will come to this point. I think it is a justified remark by Mr Verheijen. I will discuss it in that way with those who are preparing it. Mr Verheijen also discussed the governance agreement between the municipalities of Groningen, the province, the waterboard and the Empire which will expire in 2018. He says it should be extended. I would like to look into that further. We now have the multi-annual programme of the National Coordinator Groningen, which has been drawn up in consultation with all the parties and which we all believe should be implemented. I want to see to what extent that can also replace the administrative agreement. Perhaps there is something else that needs to be discussed next to it. In any case, I think that my successor should have a view on this in due course, especially because it is an agreement that will expire in 2018. With regard to July 2017, the date I mentioned, I hope I have been able to alleviate his concerns. It's not my intention to join the House of Representatives. My ambition is to try to have the bill currently before the Council of State dealt with by both the Lower House and the Upper Chamber at that time. Mrs Klip asked me about the perseverance of the National Coordinator Groningen. There's a bill now with the Council of State. She asked me if I could give a little more insight into what that means. What matters to me is that the National Coordinator Groningen should not be a toothless tiger. At times when it's really important, he needs to be able to move on. We all have an interest in that. It's very complex what's happening in Groningen. There are a lot of different interests. It must all be done very carefully, but there must also be progress. If, at some point, the matter stagnates with regard to the measures contained in the multiannual programme, which we have adopted together, then I think he should be able to move forward. He must have the authority to do so towards municipalities, provinces, NAM and ministries. We are now looking at exactly how we can shape that. We have already indicated this in the document that went to the Council of State. We have also requested a special opinion from the Council of State on parts. If that advice is forthcoming, we will certainly discuss it again in the Cabinet. Then we'll file the bill with the House of Representatives. The essence of this is that I want progress to be assured by the National Coordinator Groningen and that he is given the authority he reasonably needs in relation to his multiannual programme. I'll see if I left anything. I do not think that is the case. If so, I know that you will help me back on the right path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-16.u112	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the 3404 bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill and the motions in a moment. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the 34390 bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the legislative proposal and any motions that have been tabled in a moment. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the 34348 bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the legislative proposal and any motions that have been tabled in a moment. Before proceeding to the vote, I propose that seven minutes be suspended. You have now received the voting list. You can consult with your group on what needs to be voted on. At 11:30, I expect everyone back.
