ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u1	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Siderius on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. Of course, there must be no doubt about the value of diplomas. The law before us strengthens the requirements of the examination committees. The SP warmly welcomes that. As far as we are concerned, this bill could have just been a hammer piece, but now that it is on, we would like to ask the Minister two questions. The first question concerns the fact that people with financial responsibility were no longer allowed to be members of the Examination Board in the first instance. Later on, the Minister modified this part of the proposal and now they may become members of the Examination Board, but then the Examination Board will have to draw up rules to prevent conflicts of interest in the allocation and performance of its tasks. The SP would like to know why the Minister has changed this. For example, we are also looking at the financing model within the MBO, the cascade cost. This means that the longer a student stays in the MBO, the less the school will be reimbursed for it. We would like to know from the Minister how that relates to each other. Finally, we very much welcome the fact that students will soon be able to obtain a declaration of agreement on aspects of their studies, because this will enable you to show an employer what competences you have, even though you have not obtained your diploma. Now a model is made for that, but every school can come up with a model for that. There will be a standard model that the school can use. We would like a uniform model to be introduced in the Netherlands, which is used everywhere, so that one cannot craft one's own model to prevent fraud. Is the Minister prepared to go along with this and impose a model as a standard for all MBO institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mbo's great. It's the backbone of our education system. More than 500,000 students are currently trained as cooks, auto mechanics, nurses and so many other professions on which the BV Netherlands drives. Since I joined the House of Representatives in September, I have been visiting an MBO school every week. This week I was a guest at Schoonhoven, where jewellers, goldsmiths and watchmakers are trained. Last week I was at the entrance course of the ROC Leiden. All these students are working very hard towards their graduation. There can be no doubt that the value of this diploma fits in with the labour market. Unfortunately, there is now sometimes that doubt. We've seen all kinds of research from 2015 and they don't lie: of many MBO courses, the exam quality is not in order. The examinations are often insufficient, they do not cover the whole substance, the examination committee is not always independent, etc. An impressive list of shortcomings that the Minister wants to change with this bill. I would like to raise four points in this debate. Point one. The funding system in the MBO looks so that after four years the school receives only half of the contribution per student. There is also a diploma bonus and that could be a perverse incentive for schools to give students that diploma at some point but quickly. That is not the way it should be, because an independent and competent examination committee is very important. In the MBO 2015-2020 exam agenda, it is not without reason that examination committees need to have the necessary skills and knowledge. The VVD aims to improve the connection between mbo and professional practice. It's called vocational education for a reason. This connection can be made through the front, through the influence and involvement of the business community on the curriculum, but that is outside this debate................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Through that amendment, the VVD proposes that at least one member of the Examination Board should come from professional practice. This can be a representative of regional business, of the declining field of occupation, or of an employee with extensive experience, but very broad. This amendment does not exclude that several persons on the Board of Examination come from professional practice. Point two. The Minister wants to give institutions the opportunity to provide students with an institution certificate in order not to complete a training course for the well-achieved parts. Private education currently has the exclusive right to do so. Is the Minister prepared to map the impact of this change in the law on private education, for example, in terms of false competition? If so, how can and will it do so? Point three. The Minister announced that she would oblige schools to use examinations purchased from certified exam suppliers for all training courses or to have their examinations validated externally. The VVD wholeheartedly supports this and wants to know from the Minister what its timetable is and whether it can be accelerated. Point four. The VVD wants the assessment of previously acquired competences of workers to be a statutory task of the examination committees. That is regulated by this amendment of the law. Now funded institutions are not happy about that and often send workers from the locker to the wall, because they prefer to have workers do the whole training. That's gonna make more money. Is it true that schools will no longer receive graduation if they continue to receive training through this type of certificate? I refer to the motion adopted by Mr Lucas and Mr Jadnansing. One of the documents provided by the Ministry, in preparation for this debate, said that a choice for vocational education is not always seen as something to be proud of, but rather as a second choice, because it has not been possible to go to havo or vwo. How nice it would be if this sentence didn't have to be used in a few years' time. If I've understood one thing about all my visits to MBO schools over the last few months, it's that the MBO has a wrong image. From the MBO come highly skilled people, without whom society absolutely cannot. Let us make sure that the MBO diploma also gets the appreciation it deserves!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr Rog and Mr Mohandis waive their speaking time, but they are here and they are going to listen to Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this change of law is that the quality of examination in many MBO courses has not been in order for many years. In 2014, 18% of the courses were self-developed exam instruments of insufficient quality. This concerns the coverage of the examinations in relation to the qualification dossier, the method of assessment and transparency. In 2014, it was also found that the functioning of the Examination Board was insufficient for more than 40% of the training courses, for example because there was insufficient insight into the quality of the examination or because there was insufficient control or improvement actions initiated. That's very disturbing. What am I saying? It's too crazy for words. If exam boards don't do this, who will? That is what worries me very much about this problem every time. We are not talking about an extra thing that is not quite in order; this touches the core of the existence of vocational education. If the exams are not in order, the road is wide open to a system crisis, as we had at the time of the diploma fraud at Inholland. My main question to the Minister is therefore whether there is enough sense of urgency in vocational education. Are we aware of the danger of graduation and deterioration of the status of vocational education? An important reason for many training courses is that tasks are not clearly invested enough when it comes to the responsibility of the Examination Board. In addition, it appears that the examination board is often not sufficiently independent. Come on, I'll tell the minister. Come on, how is that possible? So many agencies, so many quality managers, so many expensive administrators who all think they're king in their own kingdoms and they just don't have the ABC of education in order. The main objective of this legislative proposal is to ensure that the quality of the examination is increased across the board, so that the civil impact is put in place and society and participants can rely on the robustness of the diplomas issued. That civil effect, that's what it's all about. It is precisely in vocational education that this civil effect has suffered a great deal in recent years, despite the insanely crowded umwelt or peel around vocational education, in the form of councils, advisory bodies, foundations and the entire administrative environment. Please respond from the Minister to this. I miss that sense of urgency. To this end, the Minister makes a number of proposals on the tasks and powers of the Examination Boards. There's nothing wrong with that. There are also proposals on the tasks of the competent authority vis-à-vis the institution. I read that this legislative proposal lays down further requirements for the composition and the independent position of the Examination Board. Anno 2016, after we had had such a agony, that is not yet in order. I think it's incredible. Measures shall also be taken as regards the relationship between the competent authority and the Examination Board. The final point is the declaration of the institution. These are all steps in the right direction, but I find it incredibly slow and late. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to my question about the sense of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u6	Then I'd be happy to give the Minister the floor to respond. I understand she needs a minute. I'll suspend the sitting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u7	Ladies and gentlemen. We will continue with the first term of the cabinet. I am happy to give the floor to our Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. When I listen to it that way, there is broad support for the proposal to tighten up the system for exams. That tightening was also necessary. That is what I am saying to Mr Beertema. I fully agree with him that a proper examination is necessary. There must be no misunderstanding about that. That's what the sector thinks. That is why we have been working on an examination agenda for this sector for some time now, funded and not funded. So it's not like we're just gonna do something with the law now. In the meantime, we have already started work with the sector. I hope that the House of Representatives will soon adopt this proposal. Considering the statements, I'm kind of assuming that's what I'm talking about. Then we can take the necessary steps on the composition of committees. By doing so, we are making an important contribution to improving the quality of the MBO. The words of Mr Van der Ree were taken from my heart, because it is indeed very disturbing that the MBO is so often seen as a second choice. It would be very nice if the MBO were not used in that way, but if young people, their parents and others saw the MBO as a positive choice. It is a choice for craftsmanship and craftsmanship that translates into the more traditional professions. Think plumbers and hairdressers. Meanwhile, everything in the technology, the robotics and the duration takes shape in a very nice, professional way. This is really a sector where innovation is also taking place for the future. So that was me from the heart. I shall begin with Mr Rog's amendment. He has not spoken, but he has tabled an amendment with the aim of including an evaluation clause in the law. We have not included an evaluation clause because the examination reports of the individual institutions and the educational report of the inspection show the state of play on the quality of examinations and the functioning of examination committees. So that information is available every year. For this reason, I believe that an evaluation clause will not have a lot of extras to offer, but I have nothing against it either. I therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. Mrs Siderius asks why members with financial responsibility can still be members of an examination committee. The legislative proposal includes the following exception for the MBO: persons who otherwise have financial responsibility within the institution may nevertheless be appointed members of the Examination Board if the Examination Board lays down rules to prevent conflicts of interest in the allocation and performance of its tasks. I therefore agree with Mrs Siderius that we should be very reluctant to admit staff with financial responsibility to examination committees, but we should not in all cases exclude them either. The exception is included because people who have a financial responsibility, for example, I mention training managers or other managers who are in the MBO are often part of examination committees because this brings benefits. Therefore, the preservation of this possibility has also been strongly advocated by the field of education. This was also highlighted in the internet consultation. Furthermore, the risk of conflict of interest is prevented in another way, namely by the requirement that the Examination Board lays down rules to prevent conflicts of interest in the allocation and performance of its tasks. In other words, the examination committee itself must establish a system of how to avoid conflicts of interest when assigning tasks. We do so because it is necessary to prevent inappropriate motives, such as financial considerations, from being included in the decisions of the Examination Committee due to unwanted mixing of roles. This could lead to an unjustified award of diplomas or an unjustified adoption of examination instruments. For example, the rules to be laid down include the rule that a member of the Examination Board who has financial responsibilities in another role does not participate in the decision-making process on certification of the participant. In this way we can ensure that people with financial responsibilities never have control and make decisions about the certification of a participant. Then there is Mrs Siderius' question about one model for an institutional declaration. She asked if we could make that happen. I have spoken with the MBO Council and the NRTO and asked them to come up with a model that MBO institutions can use as a tool in drawing up an institution statement and a corresponding list of results. This means that there will be no determination of a ministerial arrangement, because then there could be confusion with a diploma, but that I will go a long way with Mrs Siderius to use a model, so that it can also be recognised by everyone. Mr Van der Ree has tabled an amendment, and I do not yet have the number of it, which is that there should always be someone from the regional decline field on the examination committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u9	A little late, I have an interruption about this declaration of institution and its uniformity. I do not care that it is not fixed per ministerial arrangement, but I would like certain parts to come back and that it all looks a bit the same. As an employer, you are not familiar with all kinds of statements of institution. If the rock of Twente has something quite different than for example the rock from Friesland, it is easier to think that you can craft something nice at home. Employers are not always afraid of this. I'm concerned with preventing fraud. Does this mean that the model that has now been devised by the MBO Council and the NRTO is the basis for every declaration we make in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u10	It is obvious that if this model is made by the MBO Council and the NRTO, they will also use it. It is precisely by asking them to do this that we increase the chance that the institutions will use it. I'll assume so, otherwise you won't have much use for a graduation. However, I do not want it to be completely closed so that no other form can ever be chosen or that the hand-out cannot be developed. It is with great pleasure that I am prepared to send it to the Chamber when the hand-out is available. I would like to make it quite clear that I am not doing so because I am asking for approval, because it is a hand-out that the sector itself makes, but to give the Chamber an insight into what is in the hand-out. I come to Mr Van der Ree's amendment, and in the meantime I understand that this is the amendment in part No. 8 is. He asks in this case to always put someone from the declining field of profession on the examination committee. There is no misunderstanding about the importance of cooperation between vocational education and the declining field. I fully agree with Mr Van der Ree. Fortunately, we are already seeing this cooperation. Each training in the MBO involves professional practice in one way or another, for example the qualification files drawn up by representatives of professional practice and of education or professional practice in apprenticeships. In the case of examination, too, the declining field of occupation is involved in a very important way. For many training courses there is a national exam bank where representatives from professional practice are involved in taking examinations. People from professional practice are also involved in the assessment of examinations of students. With the sector, I am committed to further cooperation. The Examenagenda mbo 2015-2020 also made agreements on this, for example on developing exams even more with professional practice. The present legislative proposal also provides for the obligation to have at least one member on the Board of Examiners from outside the training or group of training courses for which the Examination Board has been set up. So that could very well be someone from regional professional practice. This possibility is already being used in training courses. So far, we're in agreement. I do object to the amendment. That says that this always has to be done. I do not want to make this compulsory, firstly because the field of occupation is already involved in all these other ways in the training and examination. A member of the profession field in the examination committee is not needed everywhere. This could very well be the case. The law offers many opportunities and even an incentive to do so, but there may be situations in which this consideration would not be considered reasonable, for example if there is no one who knows the education well enough to sit on the examination board. Even more importantly, according to VNO-NCW/MKB-Netherlands, such an obligation is not feasible and it is simply not possible to always find enough people from professional practice who are competent enough to serve as members of the Examination Board. VNO-NCW/SME-Netherlands therefore indicates that they prefer to use their time and commitment in places where the expertise of the profession can become more effective. I just mentioned a number of parts of the Chamber. However far I can go along with Mr Van der Ree's wish, I think this amendment is undesirable and therefore advise against it. Mr Van der Ree spoke further about private education. He asked me to say that I will identify the consequences for private education in relation to false competition and the time frame for doing so. At present, both funded and non-paid institutions issue certificates for share training. This legislative proposal regulates the formalisation of the declaration of institution. An institution declaration is not the same as a certificate. Certificates can only be awarded for parts of training that I have designated. I have recently identified 38 options for which a certificate can be issued. I do not expect there to be any additional competition between the funded institutions and the unpaid institutions because of the formalisation of the declaration of institution through this bill. First of all, I do not expect that because the MBO diploma paid for is a targeted diploma. The national benefit can only be used for training courses aimed at obtaining a diploma. If a student only wants to obtain parts of an education, he or she must register for a non-cost education. Secondly, an institutional declaration has no independent and unambiguous value in the labour market, unlike a diploma or certificate. By the way, MBO institutions are already able to issue and sometimes do statements of institutions. Such a declaration may also exist in secondary and higher education. We do not see any competition there between funded and unpaid institutions. All in all, therefore, I do not see any reason to identify the consequences for private education in relation to false competition. I believe that we have sufficiently ensured that this does not happen. I do not see any reason for this elsewhere in the field of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u11	The Minister began her speech by saying that she did not expect this. That could very well be the outcome of that mapping. My question to the Minister was to map this. If she has done so and the outcome is that there is no false competition, then I am satisfied. So my question to the Minister was whether she is prepared to map this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u12	It is the question of what we then map out. In any case, this is accompanied by a lot of time and therefore money, which is at the expense of other activities. If I can now see that there is little or no reason to expect that there will be additional competition between funded and non-costed institutions, if we can argue that and if we can then also indicate that we do not see this happening in other sectors, then I do not really want to conduct such a preventive investigation. Should signals, or first signals, of such competition arise over time, I will be happy to identify where that happens and whether more is needed. I would like to say that to Mr Van der Ree. I do want to be careful and not spend more money than strictly necessary on explorations, investigations and inventories. I spend that money as much as possible on the quality of education. Should Mr Rog's amendment be adopted, the law would then contain an evaluation clause. This could well be part of the evaluation. I do not know whether the House will accept this amendment. I'm willing to say that if that happened, this could be a part we're taking with us. Mr Van der Ree asked about the obligation for all training courses to use certified examination suppliers and also what period of time that was worked out. That's being worked on right now. That means an AMvB has to be created. That's what we're doing right now. We need to get it to the Council of State. We want it to be introduced as from a new school year. I think Mr Van der Ree understands why we want that. 1 August 2017 is then too short a day, given all the steps we have to take. In any case, we can say that this was introduced as of 1 August 2018. Maybe it'll be done sooner. Once again, Mr Rog will understand why this is necessary from a new school year. The evaluation of the EVCs, the competences acquired elsewhere, and the inclusion of the exemptions has been requested. I think it is very important that we treat certificates of experience seriously and that the examination committees involve them carefully in the granting of any exemptions. Since the quality and content of EVC procedures are the responsibility of the EVC providers themselves, I cannot dictate nationally when exemption can or cannot be granted on the basis of experience certificates. The examination committees of MBO schools must assess them themselves. They must also determine, on the basis of an experience certificate, whether part of the training can be exempted. Of course, this is also about real customization. I'd like to leave that to the schools. If an individual wishes to obtain a diploma on the basis of an experience certificate, prior coordination between the EVC provider and the educational provider is very important. The individual must then be made clear in advance at which school his certificate of experience can be converted into a reduced tailor-made course towards the diploma. Many EVC providers and educational institutions are already working together in this way, as has also been demonstrated to me by the recent work conference of the Service Point Examination MBO. What I can promise is that agreement will be reached in the EWC Advisory Council on the coordination of educational institutions and EVC providers and that they will also be monitored. In addition to OCW, SZW, EZ and the social partners participate in the EVC Advisory Council. This also applies: where appropriate, there is ample scope for further action on this issue. This would also be an element that could be taken into account in any evaluation. I say to Mr Van der Ree that we are indeed consulting with all the parties involved and that we are monitoring this, even though I think it is undesirable to make it a legal task. I would also be happy to inform him of this in any case, if we know more about it. We can then see if there is any reason to take stock. It has also been asked whether it is true that schools do not receive a diploma if students with experience certificates obtain a diploma. Students with experience certificates may be enrolled as an educational participant or exam participant. If a student is enrolled as an educational participant, the institution receives the diploma if the diploma is obtained. Then there's just education, so that makes sense. If a student is enrolled as an exam participant, the institution does not receive a diploma. In fact, institutions may charge examination participants a fee for the costs of the examination, but not in the event that there is no education. It would therefore be wrong for the school to receive compensation for this. That concludes my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you very much. I'll take a look at the MPs to see if they need a second term. I see that only Mr Van der Ree needs that. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and for her commitments, even though it was not all the promises I had hoped for. My amendment to item No. I would like to maintain 8 though. However, I would like to look at the explanatory statement with people who have doubts, because I deliberately kept it very broad. I want to bring professional practice closer to education and I want to increase the reciprocal commitment between vocational education and declining occupations. I have very clearly used the word 'professional practice' to make it broad and clear as an effort. I can well imagine that some sectors will not be able to meet this requirement in the first or second year, but that is a reason to ensure that they will be able to meet this requirement in two or three years' time. I would like to say a few words about'mapping'. I agree with the Minister that Mr Rog's amendment to item No. 9, if adopted, can be taken into account, but I would ask her if, if Mr Rog's amendment is adopted, she sees my wish as part of that evaluation. Then I would be satisfied and I would not have to go back to that by means of a motion or something like that. I am very pleased with the date mentioned by the Minister, namely 1 August 2018. I like that very much. I am also pleased to hear her answer about the EVCs and the graduation fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u15	Mr. Chairman. I understand Mr Van der Ree's wish to include more people from the declining field of profession in the examination committees, but that does not make my opinion of the amendment any different. An amendment is binding: it does not express the desire to achieve anything, but it says it must. In view of everything we are already doing, and given the serious concerns of VNO-NCW/MKB-Netherlands, I think that we will get further away from the desired cooperation, because they will have to look for people to be placed in the examination committees. Those people may not be or do not want to be suitable for that and are much better placed in one of those other places where we want to encourage cooperation. The VVD Group has also expressed the wish to look at the competitive relationship between the public and private. I admit that, as Mr Rog's amendment to item No. 9 is adopted and there will be an evaluation clause, this component will be an aspect of the next evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-11.u16	The bill and the amendments will be voted on next Tuesday. I would like to thank my colleagues, the Minister and all the support. I wish everyone a safe and safe journey back.
