ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u1	Today we're doing the first term of the Chamber. I shall begin with Mr Merkies on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr. Chairman. This is a moment when we are looking forward to next year, but we are also looking back at developments that can only be achieved in a jubilee mood. I am, of course, talking about the Olympic Games: no less than nineteen medals and eight golds. It's a hell of a year. We won. Well, "we." The reality is, of course, that our athletes have won. I'll tell you I didn't do anything about that at home for the tube. If I asked the members of the cabinet, I would not be surprised if they personally claimed the successes of the athletes, as if they themselves were on the shelf of Dorian van Rijsselberghe and on the balance bar of Sanne Wevers. At least that feeling gets to me when I hear them talking about the economy: the crisis is over; our measures have had effect and the economy is growing again. Let me tell you one thing. If we look purely at growth rates, the crisis in the world has long been over. Since the beginning of the crisis in 2008, global income has grown by 37.5%. The Dutch economy increased by 6.5%. So the world economy has not been affected. It grew like cabbage. Nor the housing market. The declining housing market was sometimes cited in previous years as an excuse for why growth in the Netherlands would be lower. That is not our fault, but the housing market, was said. The question is: are you saying that even recently the housing market was in the elevator and gave the economy a bit of wind? The reports showing the damage caused by the austerity policy are piling up. ING's report was added to this recently. ING calculated that, as a result of the austerity policy, we have missed around 6% of growth. That cost us 350,000 jobs. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance did what they did to previous reports which brought out information that was displeasure to them: shoot the messenger. ING's report would be unworthy and had to be in the wastebasket. In the meantime, we have the answers from the Central Planning Bureau. They show a similar image. The Central Planning Bureau estimates the impact of policies in recent years on growth at -0.7% per year. As a result, the Netherlands misses around EUR 34 billion in seven years. Is the cabinet still denying this, now that the CPB has said so? The same applies to employment. According to the Central Planning Bureau, the impact of the policy costs half a percent of employment every year. Can the Minister confirm that, in seven years' time, this is going to be about 350 000 jobs? The number of unemployed is now 555,000. That's gonna stick at 555,000 next year. That can't feel good, can it? Slower than ever, we're crawling out of the crisis. That should actually be the first sentence in the speech of the throne, I say while I see Mr Dijkgraaf making a false move towards the interrupting microphone. Usually there will be catch-up growth, but this time it doesn't seem like it. It certainly looks like there has been permanent damage to the economy. The General Court has examined the effects of all tax increases and cuts. So, what's going on? According to the Court of Auditors, these effects cannot be established. In fact, the cabinet has no idea of the effect of the individual cuts it has made. How much did they get? How much did they cost? What were the consequences for society? If we want to learn lessons for the future, we must at least know the effects of the major interventions. I am thinking, for example, of raising the VAT rate or freezing the civil servants' salaries. I therefore urge the Minister to accept the Court's three recommendations and also to examine the impact of the cuts as a whole. At least they've had an effect on the division. The gap has grown between small businesses and large companies, between sick and healthy, between tenants and buyers, between poor and rich. The written answer to our questions confirms that income disparities have increased. That simply cannot be denied any longer. The Prime Minister is still trying to do it because of external circumstances. You know, that international economy that wasn't at all responsible for growth. I call that selective shopping. The question whether these increased income disparities are the result of public policy could not directly answer the CPB. We asked that question. The CPB said: let's do more research; it requires further research. I'd say let's do it. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he is prepared to ask the CPB to get on with this right away. Can the Minister also comment on Rabobank's observation that the disposable income of ordinary households has hardly grown since the beginning of the century? If we take a look in the near future, we will see that after next year there will be no more purchasing power growth. The years 2018-2021 show a zero. After 2021, income inequality is increasing on the basis of the policies deployed. I look forward to the Minister's explanation of these figures. If the cabinet says that things are going well but that people don't feel it yet, then I don't know if the figures I just mentioned are going to change that. Capital inequality has also been rising sharply for years. The biggest increase we saw in 2013. Unfortunately, that is the last year of which figures are available. This, of course, makes it difficult for us to control policy. If we can produce recent figures from the economy, for example from gross domestic product, then it should also be possible to produce figures on capital inequality. Does the Minister agree? Does he want to set in motion that there should also be actual figures? Now we are not in a position to control the cabinet sufficiently on this important issue, and there are signs that are indeed pointing in that direction. I only have to mention a newspaper article entitled Power millionaires grow four times faster than economics. The gap between rich and poor is growing. In the meantime, it appears that one in five households have serious late payments leading to payment problems. More and more people are unable to pay their fixed costs. For example, tenants have seen rents rise by almost 30% over the past six years. Imagine what that means for someone in a social housing unit. If he paid €500 rent six years ago, he now pays €650. €150 per month is just a lot for people in a social rental house. That's not made up for by a tenner extra rent allowance. The fact that the rents have increased so explosively is partly due to the landlord's tax. Housing corporations have too little financial space to invest in new homes because of that tax. The affordability of social housing is under increasing pressure. Homelessness's turning upside down. Is it not time for us to draw a line on this unjust and ill-thought-out measure? Even if such an unjust measure is at its own risk. Its own risk has nothing to do with making care as cheap as possible. It just tells me who you're taking care of. That account is increasingly deposited with the sick person himself. People don't choose that. If the doctor directs patients, they are apparently expected to have the knowledge and skills to make a different choice despite the advice of the general practitioner. It is expected that patients will say to their doctor: you will tell me to have a scan done, but if I am at €385 I will not do it anyway. The only ones who will do that are the ones who have to turn every dime, perhaps because their monthly rent has gone up by €150. By the way, this €150 is only an average. Shouldn't there even be a proper investigation into whether care avoidrs due to their own risk occur mainly among the poorer population and, perhaps even more importantly, whether this may lead to additional costs, for example due to late diagnosis? The inequality, you see the common thread in my story, and it also manifests itself in the workplace. Last Friday we learned from new figures from the CBS that the gap between the summit and the workplace has grown. The Minister of Finance has recently written an opinion article on this, in which he notes that the top wages are indeed rising much faster than collective wages and that this is far from moderate. He's right to be angry about top men making over 100 times as much money as the average employee. But why didn't he come up with that now? And what's he gonna propose in the cabinet to change that? If it is only a moral appeal to the directors and the Commissioners, I do not know whether this idea has been very successful, given the reactions. After all, employers have been rather cynical about it. I therefore invite the Minister to come forward with concrete proposals. He's got six months left, so it's still possible. In the Finance budget for next year, we read in the Investment Agenda for Tax Administration that the costs have increased enormously. The cost of the reorganisation was initially estimated at 1 billion, but now we are talking about 2.35 billion. That's more than a doubling. Moreover, the reorganisation does not last six years, but nine years. It is specifically about this reorganisation, because the Tax Administration is constantly being reorganised. What's going on? Where did these huge exceedances come from? In his letter, the Secretary of State stated that there were major errors in the costs of the departure scheme, which have got way out of hand. He wrote that due to the closed culture of the Tax Administration it was not possible to intervene earlier. That's what the former Secretary of State ran into. How can this culture be broken without completely reorganising the Tax Administration for the umpteenth time? And how is it that there is still no clarity about the costs? I understand they're covered within the tax administration's budget, but where is it taken from within the tax administration? Since this is my last time standing before the General Financial Reviews, I would like to mention a point that I believe is being somewhat underexplored, namely the role that capital plays in our economy. This concerns the way in which capital flows, where it accumulates and where there are severe deficits. That has a huge impact. I am concerned about the new bubbles being blown in the economy. That's how we're already creating our next crisis. If the ECB's policy is part of the problem by pumping money into the financial markets, then we must appeal to the ECB. Then we can't just stand by and watch. Conversely, the ECB does sit in the chair of politicians, including the creation of the Task Force on Economic Reforms. I got a very small note from the Minister with some answers to questions. He writes that they're just doing some research. But there are recommendations that are quite compelling. Why should the ECB deal with this? Why should the ECB steer countries' substantive policies? That's the job of politicians, isn't it? That is why they are democratically elected. We must get rid of the dogma that must flow capital as freely as possible around the world. In this respect, I keep in mind that no one here can guarantee the eternal life of the euro. We are simply not prepared right now for the possibility of it falling apart. The Netherlands plays a harmful role as the largest capital transit country in the world. Every year several trillions flow through the Netherlands. This makes it possible to avoid large-scale taxation to this day. Agreements have recently been made at European level, but they are far from sufficient. The Chamber has the Merkies/Grashoff motion (25087, no. 120), which states that the agreements made represent only a first step towards fairer taxation for multinationals. In view of this appeal, the question is what next step the cabinet, and in particular the Secretary of State, will take. I was talking about the accumulation of capital and capital flows. These, of course, lead to huge deficits in other places. Then it's about the huge debt mountains. I'm not just talking about government debt, I'm talking about private debt. If something has been a blind spot of this cabinet, then it is that little attention has been paid to the debt problem. It's not just a housing market problem that solves itself. I think it's wider. If we do not tackle this, then we are on a ticking time bomb, where debts, especially when interest rates rise, will cause a major problem. I therefore call for much more work to be done to tackle the debt problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u3	I was curious about Mr Merkies' contribution, because he always makes a big number of his own risk. Yesterday I tabled two amendments (34550-XVI, No. 7 and 34552, No. 8), with which I aim to reduce the risk by €100. I have also sought a very good cover for this. Does the SP support my proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u4	Sure, but we'll have to abolish the salmon standard first, because that's the first thing we have to do. I'm fine with that. When it comes to cover, I refer to an adopted motion of my hand. It's exactly about the expat arrangement. I support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u5	Good to hear that it has to come from the PVV again in order to reduce that own risk. Mr Merkies is making a very critical sound. That is what I am going to talk about in recent years' cabinet policy. But what I really miss is SP proposals for the future. I refer to the healthcare system that Mr Roemer came up with, but which we are still waiting for. What proposals can we expect from Mr Merkies in these Financial Reviews?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u6	Specifically for the care or for the total? I have mentioned several proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u7	I am referring to concrete proposals for the 2017 budget in the form of amendments or motions that we will be able to put forward next year's missionary cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u8	I'm glad you're happy with my support. It is important to take a first step at one's own risk. When it comes to the overall system change, I am also so realistic that I do not think that this can be done in 2017. For that, you will have to wait for our election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u9	I'd like to continue on this point. Two weeks ago, most of the contribution of the SP to the General Political Reviews was about the national care fund and abolishing its own risk. Then we all asked how the SP will finance that 4 billion. This morning, we read in the newspaper that it has even reached 4.5 billion. As a financial spokesman, Mr Merkies has had two weeks to think about this and I wonder if there is a plan for how this can be financed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u10	I've had more than two weeks to think about it. Yesterday we heard that the amount is even higher, but we must bear in mind that we are assuming a higher own risk of €450. We should then first agree to that, when we want to go to zero. That is something we cannot do in one year. I would like to, but I will not propose to bring it to zero in 2017 at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u11	I find that striking. Two weeks ago, Mr Roemer said he could find 1.3 billion here and 2.5 billion there. Mr Samsom shot a lot of holes in that: it was an inadequate cover. For some time now, the SP has been trying to eliminate its own risk and set up a national care fund, but it is not getting concrete. I invite Mr Merkies to make it concrete and provide cover. Then we know what we are talking about and what the consequences of these plans are. Otherwise, it'll be a little free.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u12	Let me first say something about Mr Roemer's reaction in response to Samsom. We want to move towards a new system in which we do not have market forces, in which we save certain costs. We like to pass that on, but sometimes it's not passable. These include advertising and acquisition costs. Some 500 million have been added, not by the Central Planning Bureau, but by others. Will Mr Koolmees comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u13	You'll have to finish your reaction first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u14	Okay. Then it's about bureaucracy. Mr Samsom did this very cleverly in an interruption by Mr Roemer, which prevented Mr Roemer himself from reacting. He could no longer correct that something was not right in what Mr Samsom said about it. He quoted a particular post and asked: is it that post, is it that post? No, it wasn't that mail. If we can cut down on bureaucracy as much as we can in the neighbourhood care sector, then we can do the same for hospitals. In our system, in which we do not pay for transactions, we do think we can make a lot of savings, because much is being done unnecessarily. Many unnecessary intakes are being done, many unnecessary scans are being made and actions are being carried out. Outside the market, this would be less common.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u15	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u16	It's not getting any clearer, unfortunately. I would like to challenge the SP to come up with a concrete plan and get it passed on to the Central Planning Bureau. I'm not saying everything needs to be calculated, but we need to know what we're talking about. So far all excuses remain very vague and it all comes down to post. When is the SP's concrete plan to make the national health fund truly possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u17	If you are talking about the transfer, because that is what you are talking about, I assume that you are thinking about the CPB, then you will have to wait for our election programme. This will be calculated in full, and there will be other cover, because it really needs to be approved by the Central Planning Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u18	I was still chewing a little bit at the beginning of Mr Merkies' speech. I'm sure he didn't forget that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u19	The Olympics?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u20	No, the passing on of the cuts, what effect they have now. My question is: how does Mr Merkies, given his expertise, see that this has to be done methodologically? A lot of things have happened in the world. How are you supposed to isolate the effects of these cuts from all these different developments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u21	I'm not a central planning agency, but we did ask the central planning agency. That says: this requires further investigation. Then I assume that the CPB will look into this, otherwise it would have said: we cannot investigate that. So I'd like to look forward to that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u22	It would be nice to have a substantive discussion here as well, but I understand that Mr Merkies refers to the Central Planning Bureau, while I sometimes hear criticism from him about transfers by the Central Planning Bureau. Does he think that it is methodological to tear these things apart at a time when so much has happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u23	That is indeed difficult, but they also make estimates at the CPB, of course. The General Court also says that it would like to examine it, and even per measure. For example, what does the landlord levy or VAT pay, and what does it cost? What are the social effects? Apparently, there's a lot more to be said about that. In fact, we now know little, as the Court of Auditors' report showed yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u24	Mr Dijkgraaf was just too quick for me on another subject. I'd still like to go back to the care department. We hear here just like two weeks ago in the General Reviews that we have to wait for the plans of the SP and for the billing, but a year ago we already saw a plan. There was a SP report entitled From market operation to cooperation; perhaps Mr Merkies remembers it. That seems suspiciously similar to the issues that the SP is now putting forward, for example abolishing its own risk, for example, abolition of health insurers, for example reducing bureaucracy, although I am still puzzled by how you get less bureaucracy and less unnecessary treatment, because I think it will become one big moloch. Can Mr Merkies tell me where the plans he has now deviate from this calculated plan a year ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u25	That calculated plan is a whole different plan. That asks how it would work if we were to tax the care and then take all the care, the cure and the care. How would it work if we didn't do that through premiums, but through the IRS?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u26	Okay, the whole of long-term care is involved, but this report also talks about the elimination of one's own risk with regard to curative care. Then I'll read some shocking things. I don't just read that the rate of the fourth disc is 67%. It's getting so high that the CPB says you're collecting less tax revenue, because the people who have to pay that rate are fleeing the country, so you don't make that profit. My point is, above all, that the rates for the second and third discs are higher than 50%. They're going to be 51.5%. This concerns very ordinary people, very ordinary professions, very ordinary families. How does the SP reconcile that people like this, when it comes to the SP, will have to pay more than 50% tax? What's social about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u27	First of all, the CPB did not say that people would flee the country. That is, of course, something Mr Harbers himself invents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u28	It doesn't say that literally, but it's the portee of what's written here: you don't get that return.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u29	67% may be shocking for Mr Harbers, but we have also had 72%. That's just another choice. For the sake of clarity, this is not about the passing on of the plans we have just presented. In that sense, it's off-topic. In these plans, we opt for full fiscalisation. It's got all the premiums in it. So what Mr Harbers is doing now is comparing apples with pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u30	I can see that they're just very high rates. An ordinary policeman or teacher will be scared to death when he sits at home and gets these rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u31	That's comparing apples to pears if you add the premiums. Last time Samsom also came up with a whole story about 50%. He meant a marginal rate, but he actually didn't say that; not very neat either. A marginal rate of 50% is really different from a rate of 50%. The marginal rate is already so high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u32	I would like to return to Mr Merkies's point of view: the taxation of multinationals. He was talking about that in his speech. He thinks that taxation is terribly bad. I have a completely different opinion. I believe that everyone in the Netherlands is paying their share. About tax profits you get in the Netherlands, you simply have to pay the nominal rate in the Netherlands. There is therefore no tax evasion and it is not stimulated by the tax authorities either. But now my question. Apparently this is a very big theme for Mr. Merkies for him personally, but certainly also for the SP. I have even heard the SP say that the tax evasion of multinationals is immoral. But what about the SP itself? I am going to ask Mr Merkies that question. I understand that SP room members give 60% of their room income to the party; maybe it's 50%, but at least it's a substantial part! I have also understood that most SP room members deduct what they pay to the party when they report income tax. Step three: as a fiscalist, I know that the hallmark of a gift you want to deduct from income tax is for the inspector that gift is made out of generosity. Step four: If you don't make a payment to the SP, you can't become a MP for the SP. There is therefore no obligation in giving up the substantial part. Perhaps Mr Merkies can confirm whether all this is true. If so, is that morally acceptable fiscal behaviour? You will receive your chamber salary at the expense of the taxpayer. That goes for me, too, but everything you deduct from income tax pays off all the other taxpayers again! Is that tax behaviour acceptable to Mr Merkie?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u33	Mr Van Vliet is making a bit of a detour. He starts with tax avoidance. That is indeed a very important point. I remember a little debate between me and Mr Van Vliet, on which Mr Van Vliet tabled a motion. He asked me if the Netherlands was a tax haven and I said yes, but he said that we should not call the Netherlands a tax haven anymore. To my dismay, that motion was adopted as well, but I think we can see that the Netherlands is a tax haven. That is quite different from facilities for individuals, such as the gift deduction. Mr Van Vliet says it is mandatory, but I do do so voluntarily and I do it wholeheartedly. There's that possibility of subtracting gifts. You can have a discussion about what you think is a good cause and what isn't, but we have jointly decided that gifts to parties belong to that. For example, you have facilities, like the mortgage interest deduction, but that is quite different from that multinationals deliberately set up constructions that completely avoid tax? We know the story of companies like Apple, which pays 0,0005% effective taxes. There's no way I'm gonna get my taxes there. That's different, isn't it? Mr Van Vliet is scraping a little over that, as if it is not really so bad that multinationals do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u34	If the Netherlands is a tax haven, it is that for SP room members. You'll get a room salary and you'll have to pay. Look at Mr. Lazrak. When he didn't want to, he had to leave for Morocco. So you're gonna wear off and then you're gonna jerk off. You also declare all kinds of costs and you're really up to speed. I have been confirmed several times from different angles that this is how it works with the SP: not paying to the party, not representing the SP. There's nothing voluntary about that. This is a construction, isn't it? I'm really gonna dig in on why an inspector once signed this SP-rule, allowing them to subtract it. This is indeed the only wrong ruling I know in the Netherlands. You can't do this, can you, Mr. Merkies? Surely you cannot say that multinationals are bad and we are doing so well, because we are screwing the Dutch three times?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u35	I think this is a little low. I don't even know if I should respond to a story like that. You don't carry anything, that's your right, and you keep it full pound. I like to take that off, so who's left with the most? This will be a story about the payment scheme. We have good reasons for a payment scheme. In this way, we earn a salary comparable to that of the modal Dutchman. Most of them make a lot more money here. For example, they all have a merchant house. I just talked about buying and renting. Unfortunately, most of the people here will plead for property owners rather than tenants. That's just an example. I think it is a good thing that we have this payment scheme. The fact that the gift deduction facility exists is another story. There is. Then you just have to say that you don't want the gift deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u36	That is also what I say in my counter-budget: I am abolishing the allowance. I dare to conclude that that is one of my measures. Mr Merkies says that he deserves the least of all Members of Parliament, but that is, of course, utter nonsense. He subtracts everything and gets half of the tax dollars back through the back door, because he's in the 52% rate. Yeah, that's a good way to play. The other taxpayers pay double for a SP room member. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u37	No, that's bullshit, Mr. Van Vliet. I have a lot less net left than you, but I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u38	I have an interruption, not at this point, although it seems serious enough to me to figure it out properly. If you deduct so much and use this tax regime, it is the question of whether this is acceptable. Anyway, that's not up to me. I shall come back to another point. I did not intend to intervene extensively, because the General Reviews have already talked so extensively about the care fund, the counter-budget of the SP and otherwise. Even now, when colleagues ask for figures, I refer to Mr Koolmees, Mr Harbers and Mr Dijkgraaf............................................................................................................................................................................................... Even the PVV has produced more homework and that is a unique experience in this Chamber! Why didn't you make any serious proposals? Why not, Mr Merkies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u39	I will tell you, Mr Nijboer. We had a counter-budget last year. If you really wanted to know, you could find it as an example, as a direction in our counter-budget last year. That's where we named these things, too. We are currently in the process of passing on the electoral programme. We want to focus on this, because we are not going to adjust small things in the margins. We're going for a system change. A system change requires major adjustments. That's typically something you do before in an election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u40	We'll do exactly as you ask. Mr Harbers had just received last year's proposal and my group chairman did so. Then you said: that's not right, it's different, the cover is different, you shop and you lie and you cheat; it's not 51 point so much percent. That's it: 42% tax plus 9.85% premium, 51 comma a little over €20,000. That doesn't make any sense; I agree with you. But we will continue to ask about your proposals. We are having a serious debate here and expect counter-proposals from a serious opposition party if she does not agree with us. You don't agree with me. You're attacking me hard on your term. Everything the government has done is bad, and the rest is on the world. But you don't have any counter-proposals. That's not good, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u41	You say a lot of things at the same time and you also want to continue the story of Mr Harbers. That's a whole different investigation. We are turning back a number of things, for example, when it comes to decentralisation. And yes, because we tax it, of course it costs more tax. At the same time, premiums are going down. People, for example, no longer pay their own risk. Then you see that a large part of the people are getting better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u42	Let me make a practical announcement first. I believe that there are groups in the Chamber which are much smaller than those of Mr Merkies, while they are also in the process of making a transfer and can also submit a counter-budget. So it's not mutually exclusive. But that aside. What did the group chairman of the SP, Mr Roemer, say two weeks ago about its own risk in 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u43	I think he has said a great deal about this. We want to get rid of it. We want to get rid of it as soon as possible, but we must also be realistic and recognise that this is difficult with this coalition. It's hard to do this fast at all. We are about to come up with a proposal in the electoral programme to completely eliminate the risk involved. Anyway, that won't surprise Mrs Schouten. I wonder if I can get her on that proposal to completely abolish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u44	I looked into exactly what Mr Roemer said two weeks ago. He said in the General Political Reviews: In 2017, at least the risk should be further reduced. I haven't seen any of the SP's proposals to settle that. However, this is the moment when we have to put forward proposals for this. The PVV is right to receive credits on this point. At least there is another attempt. Mr Merkies is now talking about a system change that is needed to implement it. Those were not the words of the group chairman of the SP two weeks ago. Does Mr. Merkies recognize that? Did he just forget to do his homework?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u45	Mr Roemer did say that there was a need for a change in the system. Of course, that also makes sense, because it is precisely in this system that you can do different things. By abolishing the market operation, which is of course part of the market operation, you can save money. That is what we are calling for. This market operation has been in the system for ten years now. It makes our healthcare system one of the most expensive in the world. At least that is clear from all the lists. Our healthcare system is very inefficient with ten years of market operation. That's what I think: that can be a lot better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u46	I did not say that Mr Roemer did not speak of a system change. But he certainly said during the General Political Reviews that in 2017 the risk should be reduced. Where are the SP proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u47	In fact, I think he also tabled a motion on that at the time. I also wholeheartedly support Mr Van Dijck's proposal on the expat regime. In fact, about the expat arrangement, I tabled a motion of my own. There was a majority for that. In that motion, I ask you to consider whether we can get rid of that arrangement. The arrangement has become a moloch. If we all stand for that in the Chamber, I believe that this can indeed be a very good cover. Everyone's criticizing this expat arrangement, so I'm gonna embrace that idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u48	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch form a people with character. We don't smear problems, but we deal with them and solve them. We've done that in the past few years, we'll do that in the years to come. 'Cause it's still uncertain times. For example, for Dutch people who, despite their hard work, still can't find a full-time job. People are wondering, can I keep making ends meet? They're wondering, is there gonna be a job for the kids later? Is there, now or later, enough retirement for me? They wonder: do parents or grandparents get the right care? The restless situation in many places in the world, and its effects on the Netherlands, also worry people. Problems in countries far away also affect the safety of and in the Netherlands. Jihadists commit attacks close by, in Brussels and Paris. People are wondering if that can happen here, too. A coup in Turkey causes tension, in Rotterdam or in school classes in the country. If we want to respond to these concerns, then of course we always see people who come up with false solutions. For this argument, I have just summarized them under the names 'denials' and'screamers'. Both do not bring a solution closer but just further away. Let's start with the deniers. Come back to the beginning of the crisis, 2008, 2009, and you'll hear the echo of everyone who said the crisis would blow over. Even the then cabinet-Balkenende IV said that. The crisis would not affect the Netherlands and cuts and reforms would not be necessary. Now that the crisis is over, we have heard again recently that this could have been done, for example on the left side of politics occasionally, but also on various economists. The ING's economic agency also made a proverbial contribution by claiming that we hadn't had to do anything in recent years. I will be showing you, on the basis of the facts, how wrong this claim is. All those deniers condemn how they've intervened. They are now calling for substantial public investment and therefore for the rise in public debt. Here and there, trade unions are calling for some reforms to be reversed, which would have thrown away all the progress made in recent years. Not only have they learned nothing in recent years, but they also miss out on the efforts of the Dutch when they want to shatter economic growth immediately. Even when it comes to security and migration, I sometimes see those deniers. For example, they put people who are concerned about what the arrival of an asylum centre or newcomers will mean for their trusted neighborhood, away as scared people, wrongly, because they are legitimate concerns. Then the screamers. They think all problems with a magic wand and scream can be solved. Problems with pension funds? Increase the arithmetic rate and the problems are gone. Isn't education and care good enough? Get a bag of money ready, get rid of your own risk, and everything's gonna get better. But increasing the rate of calculation means that it is only a question of whether there will soon be a sufficient pension for young people. And the elimination of one's own risk leads to substantial increases in premiums, while we are already concerned that the premium could increase more than expected next year. With this kind of sham solution, they are simply pushing the problems forward. These problems will then have to be repaid with interest later. That attitude doesn't help us move forward. The fact is that the Dutch have put their shoulders under it in recent years. As a result, the Netherlands is out of the crisis. Not so long ago, that seemed unlikely. It wasn't easy either, but we did do it together in this country. And look where we stand: our country is much better than it was six years ago. That is only because of one thing, namely what I just said: Dutch people are a people with character. The crisis is not over for everyone, but the prospects are good. The economy is growing faster than the years before. More people find a job, salaries start to rise a bit and taxes could go down a bit. The fact is that the government has helped with the good measures. In 2012, when this cabinet started working, the Netherlands was in bad shape. The economic crisis made many people out of jobs, out of government finances with a deficit of more than 4% and banks and countries with tax money had to be kept on track. The Netherlands was a country in which necessary reforms had been pushed forward for too long. This cabinet has prepared the country for the future, for example by helping to solve the housing crisis. Houses are being sold again now. A lot of people who couldn't get a mortgage for a long time are now more and more successful. But many measures have also been taken in the areas of health care, pension systems, education and social security. This was not always easy for the inhabitants of the Netherlands, but it has had its effect. The fact is that we are now seeing the results in the Millions Note. Growth and incomes are rising, while debt and unemployment are falling. The government deficit came from 5% of our gross domestic product and stands at 0.5% next year. Perhaps, if the CBS is right, we already have a budget balance within our grasp. The government debt is under control. It is 62% of GDP and has fallen sharply over a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u49	Mr Harbers paints a beautiful picture of deniers and screamers. I think he puts himself right in the middle, being the wisdom itself. One of the characteristics of wisdom itself is a form of critical self-reflection of what has gone well and what has not gone well. The sketching of two caricatures, we can do that together. Our Court of Auditors indicated that we do not really know the impact of these 50 billion cuts. Some of these measures may have been extremely effective. We agree on that. This applies to increasing the AOW age and limiting the mortgage interest rate deduction. The VVD was never in favour of the latter, but it will now be defended as an effective measure. That's profit. Is it not a very good recommendation to evaluate very well and to zoom in on what measures have been effective to what extent and what measures have not been effective? Does Mr Harbers agree with me that such an investigation should take place quickly and then become routine in public policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u50	Mr Grashoff forgot to start with the main conclusion of the Court of Auditors: yes, we are in a better position financially, and that required a substantial package of measures. Indeed, it is not possible to recover from every individual measure over a series of years what it has contributed and whether it has had exactly the desired effect, if only because the economy has not always helped and in the meantime has a bit more annoying news for us around the world. By the way, I dispute that we did not know all these effects, because I think that the Netherlands has gone very far in calculating possible road leaks and so on. A great many measures are known to be taken. Having said that, I naturally agree with Mr Grashoff that we must always learn from the past, although I hope that we will not be able to see such a dramatic period as the last six years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u51	That almost sounds like: yes, we should do that evaluation study. But I haven't heard it explicitly yet. Can Mr Harbers confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u52	The question is whether that should be a new investigation. It is good practice that the cabinet periodically evaluates all aspects of policy. I would remind you that in the past that was still a bit of a black box. Occasionally, the cabinet submitted a report to the Chamber. But partly on my initiative, for a few years now, the Chamber has been much closer and closer to that, and we will determine what the task of these evaluations is. I would therefore suggest that the House, at the moment when there are further political investigations, wonder what has happened in recent years, what we can learn from it and what we can take with it for the future. I do not think that a new comprehensive study of 500 measures would be useful. In itself, all these measures will pass if we do the policy research we would already be doing in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u53	In my view, nothing less than an authoritative institution like the General Court makes a few recommendations. Does Mr Harbers wish to follow these recommendations one-on-one or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u54	Not in the way the Court of Auditors puts it. De facto, the Court already gives its follow-up to the Court's recommendations. I dispute the view that we would all be unaware of the impact of these measures here. The Court of Auditors has not claimed that, but that picture is bubbling up in the last two days. The total of those 50 billion dollars has brought us where we stand today, namely in a country which is in any case financially in order. I have just mentioned a number of facts that show how we stand. Those facts also indicate that the ING report and all those economists who felt that we shouldn't have done anything about it were wrong. Because that field experiment was also carried out in the intervening years. While we have put our hands on it in the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain, after years of being on the right track, are celebrating again. The real field experiment was, of course, France year in, year out of too high a deficit, a debt approaching 100% of GDP, not reforms but strikes, resulting in unemployment of almost 10% and not competitiveness. In short, France is by now the sick man of Europe. That's why all those people who say we shouldn't have done this, they're wrong. It is more than figures; it is also about the confidence of financial markets. I fully understand that this is, of course, abstract, but behind it are concrete investors and investors who now want to create jobs here in the Netherlands and who see a country here that lost its triple A status, but that within two years it was the first and so far the only one to regain it. They see a country that is now the world's fourth competitive economy and Europe's number one. That is what 17 million Dutch people, entrepreneurs, students, students, pensioners, employees, everyone, have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u55	I would just like to point out to Mr Harbers that he did not really understand the message of organisations such as ING and the IMF and people like Bas Jacobs. That worries me, because Mr Harbers is the financial spokesman of the largest party in the Netherlands. In fact, they say that fiscal policy is simply damaging to the economy when you are in the deepest of the crisis in the face of the storm, and that this means that you are unnecessarily prolonging or deepening the crisis. That's their message. They say that, and that is supported by the CPB, that a third of the economic growth that we could have had has been lost by that heavy brake step, because it had to be done by Brussels if necessary, because the VVD wanted to meet that 3% standard within one year if necessary. This is damaging to the economy. As a result, we have lost 40 billion in GDP and 15 billion in tax revenue and 350,000 jobs have been lost. That's their message. The lesson that the VVD should learn from this is: we should not do that in the next crisis; that was stupid, stupid. Does Mr Harbers agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u56	I do not agree with Mr Van Dijck. For all those people, those economists, the people of ING and apparently Mr Van Dijck himself, say that we should have done it as France. We would not be standing here with a debt of just over 60%, but with a debt of almost 100%. They say that we should have taken the risk that unemployment had almost doubled compared to the unemployment we now have in the Netherlands. That is what I really think is playing with the existence of people in this country and with the future of children in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u57	That answer was rehearsed, as was the French battle of this Minister of Finance. Of course, that's comparing apples to pears. The economists say that if you hadn't stepped so hard on the brakes, you would have had extra economic growth, because you wouldn't have killed it with your 12 billion in tax increases in 2013, to give you an example. This economic growth would have given you the 40 billion and the 15 billion in tax revenue. You would have had those jobs of your own and not that 700,000 unemployment you have now achieved. That's what they say. Sorry, I know that we are sitting right before the elections and that Mr Harbers wants to be right, but I really think that a financial spokesman for the VVD, the largest party, should learn lessons from this. If he doesn't, he'll stick his head in the sand or he won't know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u58	I continue to argue that Mr Van Dijck is right. What he is proposing is perhaps still possible in a country around which fences stand, as Mr Van Dijck would probably like to see. However, the future of the economy, the confidence of a country depends on much more. This also depends on the extent to which foreigners and investors have confidence in this country and on whether entrepreneurs in this country understand that they will no longer have to pay higher taxes in the future if we do not increase debt further. It is really, really stupid not to intervene when you are dealing with the figures we had to deal with in this country a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u59	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u60	I'll be very brief. It's about the leaking effect. The CPB pointed that out, too. How effective is kicking the brakes when you're in the eye of that storm? The VVD has bent for 40 billion and increased taxes, and in fact only 20 billion have fallen in deficit. 50%, 20 billion has evaporated because of your actions. That was unnecessary. Money, billions of taxpayers, is gone, and you have it on your conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u61	We in the Chamber have never, in any of the measures, argued that there are leaks. At the same time, however, we have put the budget in order and implemented a large number of reforms that have permanently changed the structure of the Dutch economy, which means that we really, really can compete much better than a few years ago. That's pure profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u62	I'm not here to defend French policy...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u63	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u64	...but I'd like to ask you about it. Mr Harbers does it in almost every debate: saying that we will be France otherwise. This is, by the way, comparing apples with pears, because France has much more trade with the southern countries and has more influence. There are a lot of influences. Still, I'm asking my question. We have been given the figures in the answers to questions about growth rates. What country has grown more in the period 2010-2017, the Netherlands or France? And which country will grow more next year, the Netherlands or France?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u65	Next year we will grow just as fast, but that will be independent of unemployment, which is 10% in France and just above 6% in the Netherlands. Are you going to explain to the 10% we would otherwise have had in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u66	I want to nuance the image. France has grown harder. Let's just say that honestly. France has grown by 9.8% and the Netherlands by 8.9%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u67	At the expense of future generations: 100% public debt and 10% unemployment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u68	Mr Harbers always pretends that we have such good growth. That's right, France is bad, too. I would almost say: as bad as in the Netherlands. This growth of 1.7% next year is not something to be proud of. Indeed, there are 20 countries that are growing harder and only 3 countries that are growing less fast. That's not a track record to be proud of. And now I have a question about policy. I don't have it on paper, so that's why I brought my iPad. I'd like to read something literally. Mr Harbers is attacking everyone, such as the General Court of Auditors and ING; they are all not doing well. But it's just here in the answer to the questions. Maybe he doesn't agree. This is what it says: "The CPB estimates the GDP impact of Regering Accords and additional packages compared to. the basic path (...) at -0.7% per year and the employment effect at -0.5% per year." If you calculate that, you'll come up with about the numbers ING has given. So why does Mr Harbers continue to deny that the facts that ING has given are just right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u69	I'm not fighting those numbers. I'll argue that we'd have been better off if we'd just accepted this, if we'd just let it go. I really think that the Netherlands would have been in much worse trouble by now. For example, we wouldn't have gotten the triple A status back. The fact that we have them again is good for the government, but that is also good for all those companies in the country, who therefore have a better starting position in their own appreciation. It is really incomprehensible that Mr Merkies would be prepared to accept that unemployment in our country would have risen much and much higher. I would also like to say a few words about these growth rates. Yes, I am delighted that some countries in southern Europe and, for example, the Baltic States, which had to come from very deep down, have much deeper growth rates than the Netherlands. That is fantastic news for the whole of Europe, if only because people there will be able to buy our products again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u70	I conclude that Mr Harbers does not deny what has been said by ING, the General Court and the CPB, namely that the policy of recent years, with cuts and tax increases, has cost 350,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u71	The opposite is true. If we had left it at that, it would have been even worse and unemployment would have lasted longer, even in the years to come. Countries that have carried out this experiment should see that they are getting their unemployment rates down in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u73	I just told you where we are now. We are the fourth competitive economy in the world and we are first and foremost in the European Union. I also said that we all managed to do that. More and more people notice that. You notice that in a very direct way, for example, if you were unemployed and found another job. More than 250,000 jobs have been created since the low point of the crisis a few years ago. Or if your house was underwater and is worth more by now. Or if your house was for sale for years and has been sold by now. Or if you had less to spend every year and now, because of the tax reduction of 5 billion euros, you get some more room in your wallet. The purchasing power will continue to increase by 1% on average next year, with the government paying particular attention to the purchasing power of older people and improving them significantly. In addition, there can now be a lot of money for the things that are now important: security, police, justice, defence. The flow of refugees, the threat of terrorism and the unrest at the external borders of Europe call for a strong effort in this area. The VVD wholeheartedly agrees with these choices. After all, I have said before: you can always wake me up for tax cuts and for more spending on security. Both increase our freedom. That is why we had a substantial reduction of EUR 5 billion this year, which is why we will be focusing on the necessary expenditure on security next year. I like to focus on those two goals, because the biggest mistake we can make is to fall back into old reflexes and to add money to everything when things get better. Then we would repeat the mistakes before the crisis. That would be a shame, especially now that we have a shelf life surplus, so that we can pay for all the provisions we now have in the future. So the finances are good, but still not good enough. Now it is important for everyone to find out in the coming years that things are getting better. It is now a question of making the country even stronger, on the solid basis we have been given, for example, for the 550,000 unemployed, who do not yet feel that things are getting better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u74	Madam President, I do not know if you remember it, but last year we had a discussion about a earner in this place. It was pretty elaborate. The coalition's main argument not to agree to an amendment that I tabled together with CDA and Christian Union to narrow the gap was a passing-through of the Central Planning Bureau that would cost 35,000 jobs. I remember when the spokesmen of the coalition parties and also the Secretary of State on tax matters said: "In fact, any plan is conceivable, but then you have to come up with a plan that doesn't cost jobs. Unfortunately, in reply to Question 113, I see that, according to the CPB, this purchasing power package costs 21,000 jobs... Mr Harbers is waiting for a question; so am I. How is this possible? Last year it was a no-go, everyone talked about it, the newspapers were full of it and the coalition said: this cannot be done. Mr Harbers has just said that we have succeeded in raising employment and reducing unemployment. Now the coalition comes up with a purchasing power package that costs 21,000 jobs. Can Mr. Harbers rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u75	Yes. I remember that debate a year ago. My main reason for not participating in Mr Dijkgraaf's position at the time was that I think, in principle, that we should treat people more individually in the tax system. There has been 40 years of emancipation in the Netherlands. About 20 years ago, we introduced it. The 20 years before that were ignored, because 40 years ago, my mother's generation, a woman was fired the day she married. That's been a long fight. From my point of view, it is an achievement that we have a more individual tax system. In this respect, I am also pleased that we have been able to resolve a problem that was of great concern to me in this Millions Note. When we were standing here for the spring note before the summer, we were talking about the one-earner with a sick partner who is simply unable to contribute and work. That's a problem I didn't care about. However, I do not go along with what Mr Dijkgraaf says, namely that we must make the movement from two-earners to one-earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u76	That's a different sound than last year. I can imagine Mr Harbers'. Our SGP women are a little over that stage; they just choose how to combine work and care, so they don't need that kind of tax gifts. But I get that from the VVD. At that time, however, the transfer of the CPB was a very important argument. I remember that we discussed it back and forth, including with the VVD Group. I would therefore like to have a reply to my question. How happy is the VVD Group that this package costs 21,000 jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u77	No, in this package, we have allocated money to get older people, particularly those who were firmly below the mark, far above zero, almost anywhere near the workforce. This has cost money and in this model it has cost jobs, or less jobs more, but that was not the most important consideration for me a year ago to say no to Mr Dijkgraaf's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u78	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u79	However, I do think that we should do everything we can to get more jobs in this country. What can the government do about it? That starts with the location climate. That locational climate is supposed to be the biggest concern of all of us. The cabinet has now, through the Secretary of State, shared with the Chamber the first thoughts on our tax climate. That is important, because we see, whether you like it or not, in all kinds of neighbouring countries initiatives to significantly reduce the rate of corporation tax. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are not closing our eyes to this and in the coming years we will also be moving towards a competitive, so lower, Vpb fare, if only because the report of the World Economic Forum, in which we are in place worldwide in terms of competitiveness, shows improvements for the Netherlands in the tax field. This applies, for example, to corporation tax. In this respect, we are only in position 84 according to the World Economic Forum. Entrepreneurs, and that is not only large business but also small and medium-sized enterprises, have also had a hard time in recent years. At a lower rate, they can compete better and create more jobs here in the Netherlands. More jobs are perhaps the most important factor to which we can see that things are going better, but not the only one... There is Mr Nijboer's expected interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u80	Now that my interruption was already expected, I expect a good answer too! The VVD says: neighbouring countries lower the Vpb rate and we have to participate, otherwise we lose companies. Why does the VVD not participate in the PvdA, which calls on the Cabinet to say something about this to those countries and to make European agreements on minimum Vpb rates? In this way, we cannot compete away from each other and let the big business get away without paying taxes. Because even the cornered SMEs pay taxes. Mr Harbers also pays taxes. And anyone who has just spoken good words about Mr Harbers is simply paying taxes. Then why not large companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u81	I just need to clear up a misunderstanding. Mr Nijboer's misunderstanding is that only the large company would pay corporation tax. This is precisely what the entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized enterprises are paying for. The entrepreneurs for whom Mr Nijboer and I stand also benefit from a lower rate. That is enough reason for me to say: if we can, we should bring that rate down, because the more flexibility entrepreneurs have, the easier they have to expand and possibly employ people. So that would be sufficient reason for all of me. At a time when neighbouring countries are also working on this, I believe that we cannot ignore this. In fact, I think it is very good that countries themselves are talking about their tax rates. I do not want to call for all this to be regulated in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u82	I think that the VVD Group is a bit perverse. Big companies like Apple, Google, Starbucks and other companies have done tax avoidance for years. They just didn't contribute to society, but they did benefit from all our good facilities. Now we are tackling them with the fight against tax avoidance, starting to succeed and the VVD wants to reward the same companies again with lower rates, instead of just making them contribute to the facilities they benefit from. What makes sense? What is the righteous reason for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u83	The VVD participates in the creation of rules, preferably worldwide and in Europe, to prevent tax avoidance. But in the crusade which Mr Nijboer and others are already witnessing, as I see Mr Grashoff at the microphone against it, one must not forget that the vast majority of entrepreneurs are not engaged in tax avoidance, but simply in business. These are not the big multinationals of the world but simply the machine factory, the family business, the shipbuilding industry in the Netherlands and the bakery on the corner. Those companies also pay corporation tax. Precisely because they, especially in SMEs, have had a hard time in recent years, I think they deserve a little support: reduction of the VPB in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u84	On this subject, I would like to take a completely different approach. A while ago, the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs called out very toughly that he was actually going to do something about the Vpb fare. However, I am pleased to note that the Vpb tariff is not going down in 2017 and that there is a vague plan to change a little bit about the disc in 2018. Can I say that the VVD left this in the arm with the Labour Party, and that there really is a point of profit for Mr Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u85	I see two things that prove otherwise. First of all, although it is modest, there is indeed a start being made on extending the discs in the lowest rate. Secondly, I note that the cabinet position is that it is extremely good for the Netherlands if you not only tackle tax avoidance, but also brings down the Vpb rate. When I look at the future, I see a basic path for the next four years in which we are moving towards a budget surplus. There is no need for a budget surplus, especially if the debt is already under control. The government doesn't have to pick up too much. That is why I think that in the coming period there will be plenty of room for lowering taxes, that is, across the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u86	Modesty graces man. I like the fact that the VVD has satisfied this extremely modest point, namely that there is a very small point of light for the future. I do not agree with Mr Harbers on the substance. I will gladly table a motion to undo the intention to move the disc by 2018. I think I can count on the support of Mr Nijboer; that seems logical to me. Let us note that the Vpb tariff is not going down at the moment and that a minimal start has been made with the approach to tax avoidance. Let's do that first and then take another look at other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u87	As far as I am concerned, these priorities are different. We have always said that if we can come to rules on tax avoidance worldwide, we must do so. We, too, are fighting that you should pay very little tax. It is then important not to turn a blind eye to the big business in the Netherlands, in which people just work hard every day. If we want and keep people working here, we really benefit from a lower rate. I'm gonna go on with my taxes, because there's more. I also recently saw a rise in the demand for wage increases. As a liberal, I say it right away: that is not something we are dealing with from The Hague. This is mainly a subject of discussion between employers and employees. What could possibly be of great help in one sector could destroy another. It's not a matter of one size fits all. Here too, the government can indeed help, not with forced wage increases, but by looking at disposable income. As I said earlier, as we move towards a budget surplus, there is plenty of room to further reduce income tax in the coming years. That also gives room in the wallet, which makes people notice more of the recovery. With that, I am right with the other great concern of people: is there still good care for yourself, for your parents or for your grandmother and grandpa? That's the most important thing people want to see properly arranged. After all, your health is your greatest asset. That is precisely why it is so important that it remains affordable. If the premium is higher, people will be disappointed, especially since only the lower income will automatically be compensated with the care allowance. For the VVD, care is not something everyone should take care of, but we also do not share the idea that there is something like free care. The fact is that we have access to the best care in the Netherlands. Rich or poor, healthy or not, we are all insured in the same way. The amount of your income doesn't determine if you're gonna get the best doctor. Only the disease or condition you have will determine that. The fact is that the cost of care will continue to increase. This in itself has very happy causes, namely that people are getting older and there are more and better treatments. Underexposed, but also a fact, is that 80% of the Dutch use little or no care but pay heavily for the cost of the care out of solidarity. That is also for very good reasons, because no one can predict when he or she gets sick, when a healthy person turns into a patient. Then you want good care, too. However, I do not agree with the idea that, for example, our own risk can be eliminated free of charge. It costs many billions. This means either increasing taxes on middle income and higher incomes, or much higher premiums. If you go down the path of higher contributions, the lower income will be compensated in the health care allowance. That means a huge income policy. Such a national health fund or similar ideas are then simply synonymous with a huge leveling, a leveling that affects not only high incomes but above all middle incomes. As far as the VVD is concerned, you should not use care for such income policy. It will soon be done with the most valuable element of health insurance: health solidarity, solidarity between low incomes and middle incomes, solidarity between sick and healthy. When you go down that road, there comes a time when healthy people no longer want to pay a lot for people who get sick. That's the type of division the VVD never wants. I'm rounding up. The Netherlands has laid a solid foundation. We have come out of the crisis stronger on all fronts, but not by a long shot in everyone's wallet or existence has this good news penetrated. It is clear what the government has to do in the year ahead: helping to maintain and maintain the security of life of people, while providing an answer to the new world problems and the associated security demand. Anyone who doesn't yet feel it should be able to see for themselves in the years to come that things are getting better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u88	Mr. Chairman. Economically, I'm fine. Although the growth is a bit disappointing, it seems to come from the Brexit..... is 1.7% a good growth. It is remarkable, however, that unemployment does not seem to fall. What would be the cause of that? In the last few months, it has fallen considerably. The cabinet presents a pleasant budget for 2017. There is a certain amount of burden relief and after years of austerity and burden reduction it is as pleasant as that budgetary can be. It's responsible, too. But does this mean that the government actually feels a little bit that it has intervened a little too hard at the beginning of the cabinet period? Wouldn't it have been wiser to spread it a little better? For the sake of clarity, the CDA broadly supports the present budget. We will make amendments in part. There are still a number of major risks that we cannot and cannot underestimate. I'll walk by them. We are concerned about developments at Deutsche Bank. What happens if that bank falls over? The German Government is right to say that there can be no state aid, but the Deutsche Bank is about the largest bank in the whole euro area, with a derivative portfolio larger than the entire euro area economy. If this bank falls over, it could have a domino effect. If the banking union is able to withstand this kind of blow, I ask the Minister of Finance. There is a repair to the purchasing power of the elderly. That happens along two lines. There will be a small increase in the general tax rebate and the discount on the elderly discount will be cancelled. The old-age discount is even rising a little bit. But what does the answers show? Nearly 600,000 elderly people are not getting this repair. They are not entitled to the tax rebate because they do not pay taxes. Does this really mean that older people with a pension of, for example, €2,000 a year.................................................................................................................. I am very curious whether that was the intention of purchasing power repair. I come to a point that I have missed necessary with my colleague Harbers. He's always very economical, but a question about the IRS couldn't get off. Last year's budget said that reorganisation costs 1.1 billion. This year's budget states on page 9 that the restructuring costs up to 2024 2.3 billion. The written answers say exactly the same thing. If so, we are talking about a budget that is accounting a farce. I do not understand, I repeat: I do not understand what is in the budget. Can the government state exactly how this comparison works for its responses in the first period? We are being asked to agree to the purchasing power package for all older people with 1.2 billion, which is three times the purchasing power package for all older people, without these tables being explained. What costs were budgeted, what were made and how do they deviate from the budget? I would like an explanation by post and by year. In Parliamentary questions it was previously reported that there was a setback of 70 million. Mr Merkies asked for that too. That disappointment will be resolved within the budget. Suddenly there's 70 million spaces inside the IRS? If so, I would like an explanation. The budget must be the most accurate prediction of what the government intends to spend, but we do not see that. It was known for a while, but today it became even clearer that the government is spending 700 million to allow 6,000 tax officials who are mostly over 60 years of age to leave voluntarily. 1,250 civil servants aged 64 or over, including 200 civil servants who are still working while they are already entitled to the AOW pension, will receive a full payoff of around €60,000 per year. If you want an example of a waste of taxpayers' money: here you have one! These people have worked hard for years and must now move away from one day to the next. This is not a reproach to those people, but to those who came up with this arrangement at some point. Has anyone spoken to the Secretary of Defense? The people who had to leave there with a functional age discharge have an AOW-hole and are below the welfare level during the period between 65 and the AOW-date. We have asked very specific questions on this point, because this morning's letter showed that all this was already known on 1 March. When were the first opinions given to the Secretary of State showing that there is a problem? Why wasn't this reported on this scale in the letter of May 20th? As far as the CDA is concerned, it is clear that the reform of the Tax Administration is still a major project. We need to keep our finger on the wrist much better. The tax authorities impose a fine of tens of millions on themselves for not complying with their own rules. How will the Tax Office and the State Secretary explain this to the rest of the Netherlands? How are they going to explain this to people who make a one day late VAT return and then get a fine of €250? I come to the next point. The CDA Group has reservations about whether we agree with the budget. If the Secretary of State is unable to explain why 1.2 billion more is needed if it is to be the same, then I cannot agree with the budget. The biggest financial risk is the European Central Bank. The ECB's policy of quantitative widening and low interest rates means that we are on the way to carrying out with the ECB and the system of European central banks the largest buy-back operation of government bonds from world history. Although things are improving, the ECB is continuing at a rapid pace. The ECB has become addicted to its own programme. He has now bought up EUR 1,300 billion in government bonds and other bonds, including corporate and state-owned bonds. The ECB buys up €30,000 per second. The result is that the Dutch Bank now has 50 billion of Dutch government bonds in its vault. That is pure monetary financing. It was explicitly the intention of the Maastricht Treaty that this should never happen. The ECB has the task of promoting a functional market economy. See Article 123 of the Convention. In an economy like this, the central bank doesn't buy debt. They didn't even do that in the Soviet Union. Please note that the ECB will have a blocking vote when a debt has to be written off. There will be full pay and the damage will be enormous. The interest rate on government loans up to 10 years and in Germany even up to 15 years is zero or negative. This means that debtors in the euro area no longer suffer from their debt. You can borrow at about 0%. Poor profit-making companies stand up, but who pays? The pensioners and the savers pay. They are achieving 0% return on savings and perhaps they will even have to invest money in the near future. That's the upside-down world. This hits the Netherlands hard. In the Netherlands, with 5% of the population of the euro area, we have more than half of pension assets, namely EUR 1,200 billion. Pensions are reduced year by year because of this 0% interest rate. The damage of this policy is enormous. Because the government refused to pass it on, we passed it on. I will hand you the own-initiative paper later today. This shows that ECB policy leads to billions of additional pension costs, more than €1,000 less pension per person per year and a pension fund deficit of at least EUR 100 billion. I am not saying that there would be no problem with pension funds without ECB policy, but it is making it very much worse. The economy is seriously disturbed and this is, of course, aggravated by the fact that these directors are still taxing on a 4% return basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u89	Mr Van Dijck, this will be your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u90	Yes, my last interruption. I was curious about Mr Omtzigt's input, because we always stick together when it comes to criticising the ECB and the bank's policy. The PVV has already made a very good proposal twice. This Minister of Finance experiences the benefit of ECB policy: he pays 1.5 billion less interest on the sovereign debt and he has 2 billion less tax losses due to the low mortgage interest rate deduction. This minister is therefore celebrating while the elderly, pensioners, are the victims of ECB policy. What then is unreasonable about our proposal, which we have made twice, to give back to this Minister of Finance some of that profit to compensate for the loss of those older people? Mr Omtzigt does not support that, and I do not understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u91	We want to tackle the problem at the root: the ECB's policy must be changed. To this end, we propose to consult with other countries and to ensure that the mandate of price stability is maintained while the buy-back programme is terminated. As a result, interest rates are rising again. Then you make sure you tackle the problem at the front door and not, as the PVV suggests, in a secondary way. The risk that governments run through central banks must be identified. And yes, we can see if that 4% is still sufficient. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the government whether it has already had legal advice on whether 4% and the large capital owners are legally expropriation and whether this is still possible. The judgments of the judge on this point have not been good in recent years. I think the government's running into a legal wall. We want to tackle it at the root, but we do have sympathy for reducing the burden on savings. For the savers below the barrel it will get a bit better next year, but it could have been a lot better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u92	I don't know if you realize it, but there's a lot of people watching it. All those pensioners of this kind are, I presume, also a number of those in your constituency who hear you say that next year they will lose €1,000. That's what you just said. I come with a proposal to compensate those people, because I do not think it is fair that this Minister of Finance should benefit from that bad ECB policy. We agree on that. This Finance Minister puts 1.5 billion in his right pocket, because of the low interest rate on the government debt, and 2 billion in his left pocket, because of the decreased mortgage interest rate deduction. This Minister of Finance is laughing in the face of a pack of butter and you are letting it happen that the elderly are being taken away from €1,000 because of that same ECB policy. People don't understand that. You must go along with the PVV, which says: no, Minister of Finance, of the 3 billion profits you intend to put in your pocket, we are giving 1 billion back to pensioners in the form of an increase in the AOW. Then you understand the problems of the people in this country. Stories about 4% and all weird theories have nothing to do with people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u93	If Mr Van Dijck had understood me correctly, he would have heard that the damage to pension funds due to this low interest rate at the bottom of the estimate is more than 100 billion. That is the damage the funds suffer from the low interest rate policy. Then, as Mr Van Dijck proposes and earlier in the GroenLinks and SP crisis, you can try to guarantee pension funds, but then they become state property. In that case, I know very well what happens to it. Then they are eaten and then you fix only a very small part. You can also tackle the problem at the root: ensuring that the ECB changes policy. That is why the CDA is making proposals and these proposals are going to change the Treaty, because it was never intended that the ECB would buy it and possibly drag the European Central Bank before the European Court because it does not comply with Article 123. And yes, that is the only way in the long term to really tackle the problem with pension funds, at the root.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u94	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u95	Another structural solution would be to get out of the European Union or out of the euro. Then you give the ECB the check and DNB control over our currency policy again. That would, of course, be an even better solution. I am thinking now of the pensioners who are watching this debate and who will have to turn in €1,000 next year, according to Mr Omtzigt's words. It is no good to those people, Mr Omtzigt, that you want to change the Treaty of Lisbon in 20 years' time. By then, interest rates will be back up a long time and the problem will be solved. The problem is here and now, and the Minister of Finance is here and now. We can move very quickly by calling on this finance minister to give 1 billion of his benefit to compensate those elderly people. It will help them here and now, and not only in 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u96	I think it would be wise to tackle the problem at the root and once again the PVV comes up with completely false solutions. Stepping out of the European Union, as Mr Van Dijck is proposing here, means immediate border controls for a trading country such as the Netherlands. You'll see at the Brexit. This will not benefit the trading nation of the Netherlands. In that case, pensioners will be hit even harder than what is happening now. We propose that ECB policy be tackled at its root. As the only party, we are putting a 15-page plan on the table today to show how this could be done. I am curious to see which other parties present concrete proposals to the AFB, rather than a simple cry on the left and right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u97	I would like to take note of Mr Omtzigt's last comment, of the 15-page plan for the ECB and so on. Then he says, "I'd like to see who else has that." Not for some reason, but I have a complete counter-budget that has been passed on by the Central Planning Bureau. Where's the CDA's counter-budget? I don't think it's entirely proper that he's acting like he's got the wisdom in place right now, while I'm not doing anything here. I don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u98	I did not say that Mr Van Vliet has nothing to do here. We have a number of amendments to the budget, such as an amendment to raise the defence budget by 100 million. We are presenting this amendment together with the SGP in the second term, at the expense of the gambling tax, because there is a problem that the government does not solve. You will also see proposals on other sub-budgets. You know our proposals to encourage the electric car much less. This would generate huge sums of money, although this will not be reflected in the government's figures. That is how we will make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u99	I hear what Mr Omtzigt is saying, but I would like to ask a question of principle. Why aren't these plans just in a calculated counter-budget? Why does the CDA make that choice? I'd be interested in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u100	We shall be submitting the plans when the budgets are being examined. As far as electric cars are concerned, the last time I applied for this per amendment five years ago, we were told that it would cost 8 million a year not to allow that tax advantage to continue. Later it turned out that, because it had been running for two years, it had cost 1 billion. So this year, too, I will simply make proposals that are far more profitable than what they think at the CPB, at the government and unfortunately also at a large part of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u101	Does Mr Omtzig say that the CPB is not reliable? He says it all adds up to a lot more. Or isn't that the message and not the reason why the CDA didn't have a counter-budget passed on to the CPB?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u102	As far as the electric car is concerned, we have had miscalculations in the past, and so has Secretary of State Wiebes. That cost more than a billion dollars. When we tabled the amendment together with the VVD, which was then supported by the MP Van Vliet of the Party for Freedom, as I am sure he remembers, in that construction with 76 seats, there was a yield of 8 million, then 20 million and structurally zero. It almost didn't work out. Again, there is hardly anything going on because there is a zero-selling assumption, but this secretary of state, like me, reads the autoliterature and sees that there is a new model of Opel at the moment, as well as a Tesla Model 3. The result is that all left-wing parties here in six months or three quarters of a year will be surprised to see that half-lease-driving the Netherlands makes use of the possibility to drive almost free, for €50, in a beautiful new electric car. Then we'll start an emergency braking procedure again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u103	That's where we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u104	I have an order proposal. I have not yet seen Mr Omtzigt's plan. Is it being distributed? Soon we will have the debate on the ECB; we will be discussing this again anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u105	That is indeed an order proposal; I do not count it as interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u106	That plan will be distributed shortly. I put it in the form of an initiative paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u108	Since Mr Van Vliet brought it up, I shall now finish the point about the cars. Government, do you really see it now? Are we going to apply a rate of 10% or 12% instead of 4% this time? That is still half cheaper than the 22% addition to the normal car. Or are we just gonna wait until it gets out of hand in the middle of next year? 4%, less than €50 per month, is total overstimulation. I come to the one-earners. After years of denial, Mr Dijkgraaf now referred to it, the first point of recognition in the letter is that there might be a problem. This means that Wmo's own contribution will be reduced. Does this apply to customization and general provision, or does it only apply to one of the two categories? Doesn't the government think the incentives have gotten out of hand? The answers show that a least-earning partner who is azzp'er and has children under 12 years of age can earn almost €3,000 a month in the Netherlands before paying taxes. As a breadwinner, you start paying taxes before you reach the minimum wage. If you get an invalidity pension, you start paying taxes before you have €10,000 per year in benefits. Here you get €35,000 tax-free. Have these discounts not gotten completely out of hand? This is a reduction in the burden which, in the government's view, costs 21,000 jobs; Mr Dijkgraaf also mentioned this. Why is that? What does the government itself think of that? How is it that this year was not widely reported, but that we had to wait for question 113 of the annex that we ourselves have adopted here? Why is the provision of information to the Chamber being handled so selectively? I have already said that we are coming up with an amendment in the field of defence. We are pleased that the Cabinet recognises the need for additional investments in Security and Justice, but it is unclear what the relationship between investment and task is. An example is the case law. We see an additional structural investment of 35 million for quality. This is in addition to the EUR 25 million committed in the 2016 budget for the KEI. That is good news, but at the same time there is still a cut of 33 million in 2016 and 75 million in 2017, and 92 million in structural terms. Is the case law going forward or backwards? Is there enough money in justice this time? The same goes for the D.A.'s office. The Court of Auditors was clear: it is inimitable what is happening. This is particularly true of security and justice. I would like a clear answer from the Minister of Finance: is this budget right on that point? Let me lock up where I started. It is doing better economically and the budget looks tidy, but we are far from there. There are huge risks and challenges. We would like a clear answer on these major risks and challenges and on the tax administration's micromanagement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u109	Mr. Chairman. When I became active and became a member of the Labour Party, the motto of the party was very appealing to me: strong and social, a strong economy and a social society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u110	That was back in the day!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u111	That was the motto at the time, Mr Koolmees. That motto still appeals to me very much, but today it is also the other way around: without social society, there is no strong economy. That is the key message I wish to convey today in these General Financial Reviews. What's it worth to have a job when the job is insecure and pays badly? What is it worth to participate in a society when people are being set up against each other, calling each other names and not hanging out with each other? What's it worth to have ambitions if you can't go to the school or the education you want to go to? This is first and foremost antisocial, but that is not economically strong and sensible either. When I studied economics, the exchange was always outlined between justice, equality and economic growth and the choice that had to be made in it. Large groups of economists and also economic institutions, such as the Netherlands Bank, the CPB, the OECD and the IMF, endorsed that: exchange out justice, equality and economic growth. However, more and more of these institutions have come back to this. In recent years, the OECD has pointed out that more unequal societies throughout the world lead to less growth and that this actually goes very badly together. The IMF recently stated in a report that inequality is one of the greatest challenges of our time, perhaps the most important challenge. Even our own Dutch Bank pleads for higher wages, because the profits of business have grown too far and employees do not benefit much and not enough from economic growth. The key point I want to bring to the General Financial Reviews today is: you need a social society to be a strong economy. I'm going in on six points. I will start with the budget, continue with taxes, work and income, education and care and close with the financial sector. You are no different from me, I say to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u112	Mr Nijboer's plea about social society as one of the basic pillars, including for the economy, has been taken from my heart. Does he agree with me that the non-workers are included?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u113	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u114	It is quite clear that in recent years the commitment of government policy has been, among other things, to increase the difference in income between workers and non-workers. This has also been very effective, as the figures show. How does Mr Nijboer look back on this policy over the past few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u115	The commitment of the Cabinet.................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the same time, unemployment is still one of the major problems of our time. You can do two things, you can do more, but I mean in taxation to stimulate work. You can lower the benefits and say, "They're gonna work on their own." That is a bit the solution of the VVD and other right-wing parties. You can also make work pay more, that there is no poverty trap, that you don't have less left if you go to work after a benefit. That is exactly what the cabinet has done, including the 5 billion package in the past year. It is the lower incomes and middle incomes that benefit most. The PvdA Group strongly supports this. We've done that without the benefit recipients getting worse. In fact, they just got everybody's income growth. The clutch remained in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u116	It is clear that Mr Nijboer here confirms that increasing the difference between workers and non-workers has been a conscious policy. That is a clear point. I would say that this is at odds with the starting point of social society, which is supposed to include non-working people. You can have all kinds of other, rather economical reasons to make that difference bigger. That is up to Mr Nijboer. It is in any case a fact that this policy is not in line with the principle of social society. Does Mr Nijboer agree with me that this ultimately resulted in a much smaller percentage increase in purchasing power at the bottom of the income building than at the top? There is therefore more increase in people with more than 500% of the minimum wage, and less increase in people with less than 175% of the minimum wage. Can Mr Nijboer confirm that this is so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u117	One. Benefits, including the AOW, have also been compensated and increased in recent years, despite the difficult economic times. Two. If we had done nothing, for example, about the problems with pension funds, especially with the elderly, but also with the beneficiaries, we would have been in a very bad way. A billion was earmarked for this last year, and again this year. Three. Let me come back to the first point. Mr Grashoff may call this economical, but in the past, when they got a job and earned the minimum wage, people with benefits went down. I don't think that's justified, and I don't think that's right. The cabinet did something about that. People who get a job and earn about the minimum wage have improved 10% in recent years. That's very good, and that supports the PvdA. Frankly, in the counter-budget of GroenLinks, I see exactly the same mechanism. That is where the reduction in working hours is greatly increased to encourage this. I have never seen any other proposals from GroenLinks in recent years, because that is social. Work is made more profitable without groups not participating declining.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u118	There is something quite different in the counter-budget of GroenLinks at the moment. Mr Nijboer may not have seen that. This is about increasing the general tax rebate. That's different from the employment discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u119	I hope you do both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u120	The point is that Mr Nijboer is avoiding my question. I ask him the very simple question if he agrees with me that the following figures are correct. Eventually, people with less than 175% of the statutory minimum wage had 4.3% increase in purchasing power, and those with more than 500% of the minimum wage 7.2%. Consequently, inequality has grown. Does Mr Nijboer agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u121	Speaking of economics. I am now hearing a lot of numbers mixed up and Mr Grashoff is talking about a reduction in working hours and a reduction in taxes. But it's okay. I don't want to be a douchebag. What did we do? People who work and earn the minimum wage, i.e. €20,000 per year, get net €2,000 in four years' time, so during this cabinet period. People who earn a ton or more have to pay a net €3,500 more. I've got front pages of newspapers at home. I've only kept them on "Marx Rutte." That was about this. Mr Grashoff is now pretending that there has not been a fair sharing and that... that is not true! Compared to the beginning of this cabinet period, the difference between someone with €20,000 and someone with €100,000 net is €5,000. That's because of government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u122	Mr Nijboer rightly says, as far as I am concerned, that working should pay off. Last year, with the 5 billion package, the coalition was really committed to making wages more work, so the labour cut has been increased. However, in the plans for this year, I saw that some of them are already being reversed. Mr Dijkgraaf's question on employment effects was also a little bit about this. This increase in the employment discount is partly reversed. Now D66 has put forward a number of proposals in the counter-budget to raise money through fiscal greening, in order to increase the employment discount. Fiscal greening is good for the environment, but also good for the treasury. Is this an interesting proposal for the Labour Party, given the starting point that work should pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u123	The PvdA is for both, i.e. for greening the tax system and for promoting employment through the tax system. Of course, it requires a broad majority in the Chamber; Mr Koolmees also knows that principle. So there must be more parties than just the PvdA. But, in principle, such slides can always be spoken of, provided they are used fairly and fit in. The reduction is, of course, limited to the highest incomes, and the PvdA is always for the lower and middle incomes. Moreover, there must be a broad majority in both chambers. Mr Koolmees knows that concept like no other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u124	I think that's very positive. Let Mr Nijboer and I work together to find such a majority in this Chamber to actually settle that with the Tax Plan. But I hear the positive reaction of the Labour Party. I'm very happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u125	I'm constructive as ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u126	There are often two debates going on. I'd like to get a divorce. The first is the question of whether income disparities have become larger or smaller. The other is what the cabinet did. It would be good to talk about both, but it would be good to talk about them separately. My first question to Mr Nijboer is: have income disparities increased or decreased over the past period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u127	They've been taken away. The gini coefficient has become smaller if Mr Merkies wants to dive into the technique. If you look at the group of workers, you can see that the workers with the highest incomes have turned in the most and vice versa. So it's been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u128	Good. We also asked that question in the written round. The question was simple: "Are the income differences in this cabinet period reduced or increased?" Then the response of the Central Planning Bureau, when looking at the cumulative static purchasing power development between 2014 and 2015, can be seen to be that the lowest incomes are making less progress than middle and higher incomes. I can't help but think that income disparities have increased. If Mr. Nijboer denies this, isn't he just standing here lying?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u129	Those are big terms. I like that more for the General Reviews. I'm just sticking to the gini coefficient, which measures the overall inequality in the country. It's just been taken away. It's improved. If it's 0, everything's equal. If that's 1, one person has everything. That ginico-efficient has decreased. Mr Merkies can read that in the same pieces. I have also given the figures of the workers. These figures are also included. So you can use all kinds of packages and figures to sketch all kinds of images, but what I think is important is what cabinet policy has done. Mr Merkies can agree with that. When you look at low incomes, middle incomes and higher incomes, you see a massive procedure that doesn't go by itself. I can give you the examples: €3,500 net tax discount reduction reduction for high incomes, retirement cut to a tonne, the Top Income Standards Act, raising €2,000 labour discount and tax discount around the minimum wage. And then I haven't even mentioned the employer side: the fact that you get €1,000 or €2,000 from 1 January if you hire people around the minimum wage. You will. You won't see that again. None of that can happen on its own. When you look at that, I'm... well, "proud" I don't really think it's a Groningen word, but then I think we've achieved a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u130	Mr Nijboer said: that is more for the General Reviews. Then Mr Samsom indeed said: flagrant lies. But it's the other way around. What Mr Nijboer is doing is constantly doing a little bit of magic with figures, for example just looking at the workers and taking the benefit recipients out for a while. We simply asked that question and that was the answer. It just says that income disparities have increased. You can't make it any different than this. Mr Nijboer mentioned a few examples that narrowed it down. I can set out just as many examples that have increased it. Now we are going to talk about policy. Has the policy increased it? That is the question we have asked. That is what the Central Planning Bureau says: further research is needed. If Mr Nijboer wants to keep an honest story here, does he agree with me that this investigation should take place so that we can really see whether these differences have been enlarged or reduced? For I do not yet believe what Mr Nijboer has said, namely that the differences would have been reduced by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u131	This is a bit of a recurring theme between Mr Merkies and myself. I'm never against any more research into purchasing power. I am not opposed to that at all. I do not have the impression that we have a shortage of purchasing power plates and analyses in this country, but I am not at all opposed to adding another field of vision to that. However, since Mr Merkies blamed me with figures at the beginning of his interruption, he should not blame me for reminding me a little of all the readings and plans of the SP that have not been delivered this time after many colleagues have called. He must therefore also pay attention to his own figures. I shall begin with my first theme, the budget. She's strong, I'm sure. We came out of a pretty bad situation, and we're in good shape right now. However, I sincerely believe that there is nothing social about a large budget deficit, especially if you know that the number of elderly people, who need good care and AOW, is increasing, if you know that infrastructure needs to be brought up to date and if you know that it is necessary to invest in education and the future. All of that can happen. That's the basis the cabinet laid. In this budget, it has also been chosen to invest further in the public sector: security and defence, of course, but also health care, EUR 400 million, and education. There has also been an increase in the budget for chronically ill people, particularly thanks to Mrs Schouten, who insisted very strongly on this in the Spring Paper. That's important. The basis for this has also been laid with this coalition. In the upcoming election campaigns, each party can make its own choices, but the Labour Party will make the choice to further invest in the public sector, in education, in safety and in care. This can only be done if you have made the budget sound; the cabinet has done so. What I very much welcome is the investment bank that the cabinet wants to get off the ground for this cabinet period. Because loans for SMEs are still bad for banks, and they can and must do something about it. What I also very much welcome is that, after a long wait, steps are finally being taken in terms of sustainability. I can see Mr Grashoff's ears pointed. The largest windmill park in Europe is being realized. The costs are even lower than anticipated. At least we have to see that afterwards, but for now they are lower than planned. It is important that these investments continue to be made. I'll be on the taxes. I will start with what is right: tax avoidance is being dealt with by this cabinet. Under the presidency of the Netherlands, Europe, which, two and perhaps even a year ago, no one thought that it would take substantial steps to tackle tax avoidance and make it public. There have been agreements on interest relief restrictions. Real progress is being made. The Secretary of State has been very committed to this. But what the PvdA considers to be antisocial and very unwise is that the proceeds of this tax avoidance should be returned to the same companies, at least according to the Secretary of State. We very much disagree with that. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, the plans for this can go straight into the trash. That is not fair. It is not right that companies have for years avoided tax, sometimes even evaded tax, and at the same time the revenue from large companies' taxes is falling further and further. Citizens who simply work pay their taxes and SMEs pay their taxes, but they just walk away from big companies. This tax revenue from large companies is billions less than ten years ago. If you want to restore that balance a little bit and tackle avoidance, then they just have to make their contribution. But the Secretary of State says, no, we're going to reward that right away, we're going to go with that race to the bottom, because other countries do. That's really the wrong reaction. That's rewarding bad behavior. The PvdA wants the Secretary of State to address the countries that are using that race to the bottom. That undermines the funding of our welfare states. The PvdA is not in favour of that. Another issue related to taxation was raised today, namely the situation at the Tax Administration. The PvdA is always good with employees, but it shouldn't be too crazy and it has become awesome. In doing so, the Secretary of State for Taxation handled taxpayers' money carelessly. He has acknowledged this error, but it is sad to see that. I come to my next theme, work and income.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u132	Last interruption for Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u133	Mr Nijboer made a whole speech on tax avoidance. I'm glad. I have put forward a proposal in the Chamber to hold a hearing for which we also invite the parties mentioned by Mr Nijboer: for example Apple, Google and Starbucks. I think it is right that we should also talk to them about this phenomenon. Is he gonna back that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u134	There has been an extensive debate on a research design, I believe, for almost months. The PvdA will be worth it if that mini-survey is held on this subject for the first time. Then you have to look at what you get a majority for every once in a while. That's gonna be hard enough if that's how I saw it in the last meeting. Then it often doesn't help if you stand aside all alone with your own equal. We were actually in this together. GroenLinks and the PvdA are not necessarily opposed to hearing multinationals. That's not the point at all. That is not Mr Grashoff's point; that is neither Mr Groot nor mine. But sometimes you have to try to get a majority. My appeal to Mr Merkies is: make this a success now and first take on those mailboxes and those trusts; that is possible, because you have the chance and do not stay in your own right, because then nothing will come of it and that would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u135	As Mr Nijboer knows, I have long had to make a plea for a hearing on the trust sector here. We had that hearing. At first there was resistance to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u136	Not with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u137	Okay, well, not at the end of the day. That's true. There are two plans now. There's a plan where they won't be invited. I understand that the PvdA has said that we are deleting the section to talk to these multinationals, to get others involved. That has been the approach, but that is not my approach, because I think this is crucial. Mr Nijboer himself mentioned these companies. He mentioned Apple, Google and Starbucks. We can also mention a few others: IKEA, for example. It's okay to talk to them, isn't it? If you delete that particular part, you won't be able to speak to them anymore. There are now two proposals. Mr Nijboer will, of course, be voting in favour of his own proposal, but that still raises the question: will he support my proposal, in which we will be talking to the multinationals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u138	I really don't understand what Mr Merkies is trying to do. We will certainly vote in favour of that; that is not a problem at all. But he doesn't get a majority; that's a problem. For a mini-survey you need a majority and collaboration with colleagues. This cooperation will require a great deal in Parliament in the coming years. Therefore, it is a pity that the SP chooses its own route and says... Well, all right, I said what I said about it. We are voting in favour, Mr Merkies. Don't be stuffy, but that won't help you. We need to try to get a majority to get that mini-survey off the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u139	Mr Nijboer said that the PvdA voted in favour. Anyway, thank you for that. Then perhaps we can get a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u140	I'm curious, but if I saw it that way... at least it won't be up to us. I come to the topic of work and income. In terms of work, the picture has become better and better during this cabinet period. For the first time, there are more than 10 million jobs. Unemployment has fallen by 20 000 in the last month and by more than 100 000 in the last six months. That just looks better. We've just had interruptions about income policy. I believe that this is done in a fair way. For example, poverty in the Netherlands is falling across the board. That doesn't change the fact that there are still concerns. These concerns are justified, because not all jobs are of equal quality, and then I express myself with caution. Wages are under pressure, especially around the minimum. Zzp structures are set up and executed against the law. The PvdA Group also continued to see child poverty as a thorn. We have been able to agree with the VVD on this budget. The cabinet has now submitted it to the Chamber of Representatives to pay out 100 million, so that children can also take swim lessons, go on a school trip, play the instrument they would like to play or play a sport. That's good. We're curious about the effect. I come to the care, Oh no, I forget my part about education all the way. That's what you do when you put it out of your head. I'm only halfway through my work and income story. First of all, I would like to say something about education. It was probably because I said something about kids, but that was still about income. That was about poverty policy. If you don't have so many opportunities in society, because of education, the Netherlands is actually the best place in the world to be born. With regard to the expectations of children and what they ultimately achieve, you can hardly be born anywhere better than in the Netherlands. That's actually fantastic. And that is thanks to the teachers who provide it, the good schools and the good education. We have invested heavily in this in recent years, partly thanks to the efforts of colleagues here. At the same time, equality of opportunity in education is a real concern. Mr Harbers and I tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter in the spring paper. We look forward to the proposals of the cabinet on how to implement them. Last summer in Groningen I was allowed to give a guest lesson at a summer school to students who volunteer to be recalibrated in mathematics and language during the summer holidays. They do so because they do not learn or speak enough Dutch at home, can not come enough and actually start with a delay in the new year. I would like to suggest to the cabinet that the PvdA would like to see this motion as a follow-up. We are also pleased that after many years of discussion mbo'ers, for example mbo'ers who live in Emmen and have found the Mbo-training of their choice in Groningen, can also go to school with an O.V. card, even if they are underage. They or their parents, if they don't have the money for it, don't have to buy a hugely expensive train ticket. The annual card for students has become cheaper, even free on 1 January. My ex-colleague Jadnansing has made quite a plea for teaching materials in the MBO. That was followed by the cabinet. It is important to continue investing in it. This is not only socially sensible, but also economically sensible. I'm coming to health care. Good health is actually the most important thing everyone has. We'll soon agree on that. The cabinet has taken substantial measures in the care sector. It has also made considerable choices in care. Care is organized closer to home. One does not have to go to such an indicative organ, where everyone got the same. More attention is being paid to the individual situation. There is also huge investment in district nurses. They've been given much more space to do their job. Neighborhood care-like initiatives have been shot out of the ground like mushrooms. That's not for nothing. That is a good thing. What applies to education also applies to care, although you sometimes don't notice it in the Netherlands: if you look at it from a distance, you can see that it is really best of a good quality. Whether you're poor or rich, everyone has the same basic package and everyone can go to the same doctor. We must nurture that. At the same time, as in education, there are also problems and concerns that need to be addressed in the near future. I ask the cabinet, for example, about the affordability of care premiums. I would also like to ask the difference between the estimates of the cabinet and the first indications that are now being given. What does that mean? And is it true that people with the lowest incomes are fully compensated? This is an important point for the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u141	That's an important question. The cabinet had expected an increase of €3.50 but it turns out in practice many insurers still have to come up with it, but it will all be in the same order of magnitude to be an increase of around €10. That has consequences for purchasing power. I remember the cabinet coming out and saying, "No one's going backwards this year." That's right. In the purchasing power cards it was all very well and neatly incorporated. I'm now calling a group, and it's not my hobby to keep calling this group, where it's getting pretty tight: the one-earner, modal and twice-modal. It's at +0.1%. If it turns out that the increase in the care premium, which is not compensated for by the care allowance for that group, is causing this group to deteriorate, does Mr Nijboer agree with me that the cabinet must then keep its word and ensure that the group does not deteriorate or, more importantly, that it simply continues to improve, as promised by the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u142	My main focus is on the lowest incomes and middle incomes. Mrs Schouten will understand that. That's why I asked if they'll be compensated. I also think it is right that we should ask my colleague, Mr Bouwmeester, to do so in the care debates...................................................................................................................................................................... If you keep high buffers or have high profits, if you just store all that up and don't bet it for a lower premium, then you're not doing well. Those are also channels you can think of. I'll ask the cabinet what it means for the purchasing power picture. In the end, that must be balanced and just. I agree with Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u143	I am glad that Mr Nijboer says that it must be balanced and just, but the cabinet itself said that everyone really is getting better. I would like to confirm to Mr Nijboer that this will remain the case, even if the purchasing power figures show that a certain group is falling below or below zero. Is Mr Nijboer prepared to call on the cabinet to compensate for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u144	I think you should have an eye for all the groups in society and have the ambition to make everyone move forward. At the same time, we all know here, of course, that we cannot guarantee income growth in every individual situation. Mrs Schouten knows that, too. There's no guarantee of that. But I think it is right for Mrs Schouten to ask what it means for those groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u145	Mrs. Schouten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u146	If the purchasing power figures show that certain groups are falling to or below zero, perhaps we will look together at what kind of proposals we can make to fix that. But we will certainly keep the cabinet at its own word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u147	We always keep the cabinet at its word. That seems to me to be our task; that is what we are here for. I come to the financial sector. Those who now overlook the landscape can only conclude that a great deal has happened. We have really strengthened the financial sector, with higher buffers, with a European banking supervision, with higher requirements for buffers and with the duty of care, which is legally anchored in the Netherlands. At the same time, there are still major and justified concerns. This applies to Italy and Portugal, but also to the Deutsche Bank with our German neighbours. I saw in the Dutch Bank's legislative letter the proposal to allow dividends to be stopped more quickly at European level by the European Central Bank. The PvdA Group feels a lot about this, because you can see that the old culture in the banking sector is re-emerging. Again this morning, 7,000 layoffs are being made at ING, while at the same time the story is being kept that the market requires more returns. Bearing in mind Mr Hammers, who said last year 'I am so brave to ask my Commissioner for a 30% raise', that is a culture that reminds me of Tilmant, who said: look at society, we are only here for ourselves. You can see that behavior coming up again. This requires regulators and legislators who are tight and who prevent that behavior. So I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to give the European Central Bank the opportunity to limit dividends and to make a commitment to this in Europe. In the end, it will not be the taxpayer but the investor who will pay for it. I will not say on the following point that it is expected to be accepted by Parliament, but it is a point which the Chamber has often discussed last year. Mr Omtzigt pointed out the disadvantages of low interest rates, but there are also some advantages. For example, homeowners can transfer their mortgage. But that's not easy. It's not insightful. We've talked about that a lot. It's been promised that it will be. That's good. But the AFM points out in its legislative letter that the duty of care is actually not good enough and that banks are allowed not to offer far too many things to consumers, such as interest-rate mediation and transfer, when they should. Is the Minister prepared to tighten up the legislation and broaden the duty of care? This could help consumers. Finally. The polarisation in society is taking place internationally. I see Mr Van Dijck looking around happy, but I have great concerns about that. If someone like Trump, who sows divisions, spreads lies, turns those groups in society against each other, who doesn't even pay taxes, but well, I don't think that's the most important thing, even though I like it a lot, as you've heard in my input, which stands with his back to society and which divides society, comes to power in America, when England turns its back on the continent after the breakthrough, when in Austria, which is still a very normal European country, perhaps an extreme right-wing president is elected in the new elections, then it's not only a social and bad thing, but ultimately it's also economically very bad. That leads to misery. Only if children can follow the training they want, only if we are dealing with each other a little normally, live together, learn from each other, live together a little and only if the employer also has a little eye for the position of the employee, for his wages and for his safety, only then we are social and we become stronger together. There is still much work to be done next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u148	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV Group. Wait, I see Mr. Grashoff walking to the interrupting microphone. We've agreed on three interruptions, Mr Grashoff, and you're through. But you may ask Mr Nijboer one question, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u149	No, Mr. Chairman. I want to make a point of order. I understand that that appointment was made.... I was in one minute later....... but I think that the debate is completely beaten to death.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u150	Well, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u151	In my view, the vast majority of people are now almost through the interruptions. This means that we will soon have exchanged the debate for the reading of contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u152	That is not true, it is also true of the number of interruptions that have taken place so far. We'd do it in two, but everyone's got the space to ask the questions he wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u153	Mr President, I would like to make the point of order to deal with the interruptions differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u154	What is your proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u155	My proposal is not to limit the number of interruptions, and otherwise, in any case, to establish reasonably a number that reflects the importance of the debate called General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u156	I thought the majority agreed, and you were too late. And now we're going to question it again... I never like having debates like this, and certainly not about this type of procedure. Anyway... Mr. Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u157	You did propose it at the beginning, but I do support Mr Grashoff's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u158	Yeah, that's what I thought. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u159	Mr. Chairman. I also supported the proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u160	Yes, you're through your interruptions, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u161	... because I'm through my interruptions too!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u162	Yeah, that's what I thought!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u163	I would have liked to ask Mr Nijboer whether he supports our amendment to reduce the risk, but I can already see him shaking no. His party leader, Mr Samsom, has a mouthful of saying that the risk should be reduced. Now I find a cover that the PvdA should agree with, given the previous debates, and now Mr Nijboer shakes no. But that must have something to do with the cordon sanitary. Mr Rutte apologized; sorry for the many promises he has broken. You remember: hands off the mortgage interest rate deduction, not a penny to Greece and every Dutchman €1,000. It was all hard lies to spawn the voter. The Netherlands therefore reacted angry, and rightly so. What good is sorry if a country goes to hell? Or when your house is underwater? What's the point of sorry? Today is the time for this Minister of Finance. He says he tried to share the pain fairly. That's a start. So he admits to hurting the voter, but he refuses to apologize. Today, I'd like to give him an opportunity to say sorry. The blunt clean-up operation has permanently damaged the economy. Not only do I say that, but the CPB, the ING, the Court of Auditors and many economists also say that. Because if you're going to cut back hard in a recession, you're gonna exacerbate the problems. We've seen that. Half the budget cut has been leaked. No less than 20 billion has been leaked, fetish, evaporated. The facts speak for themselves. It was just stupid policy, and that was just to please Brussels. Do I hear an apology from this minister? I think so. Fiscal policy has deepened the crisis by a third. The CPB carefully estimates the effect of -0.7% of GDP per year - as mentioned earlier - and the employment effect at -0.5% per year. This means that every year that this finance minister was in trouble, 35,000 jobs and 5 billion economic growth were lost. That's not something to be proud of. Bas Jacobs didn't call fiscal policy mesjogge for nothing. He even went so far as to say that we would have been better off now if the cabinet hadn't done anything. The whole austerity operation would have been superfluous. In other words, Minister, you should have stayed home. That would have been a lot of trouble. The Netherlands now has the fried pears. We're three years behind on other countries. Reforms have also damaged the economy. It stirred up the uncertainty and damaged the confidence. People became insecure, had less and less to spend and kept the hand on the cut. In the middle of the crisis. Long-term care was broken down. Half the nursing homes were closed and 83.000 care workers lost their jobs. In the middle of the crisis. The housing market was dealt with. The rents are up by almost 20%. House prices fell by more than 20%. One and a half million people were underwater at some point. The housing market was locked. In the middle of the crisis. The age of AOW rose, purely out of austerity. With that, the Netherlands is number one in the world and we can spend the longest time in the world. A school leavers may retire after 54 years with his 72nd if he makes it. That's a nice prospect. Pension reforms have also failed. Never before were the pots so well filled, but at the same time never were so many pensions underwater. 6.5 million pensions are under water. Reform because it's possible, not because it has to. The cabinet stacked one mistake on the other and is apparently proud of it as well. It's trying to tell us that thanks to him, we've come out of the crisis stronger. It's more in spite of this cabinet. Thanks to the cabinet it has taken unnecessarily long and the Netherlands has been permanently damaged and 20 billion has evaporated. Do I hear an apology? If you want to cut back if necessary, do it on posts that barely affect the economy. That's what the PVV has been advocating for years. The famous left-wing hobbies have now also become VVD hobbies. How much has been cut on subsidies, VVD? How much on foreign expenditure? The billions are flying out the window: 20 billion to Greece, 7 billion to Brussels, 4 billion to Africa, 2.5 billion to grants, 2.5 billion to innovation grants, 1.5 billion to public broadcasting and art grants, 2.5 billion to integration, 2 billion to windmills and 1 billion to pathetic expats. These are all billions that had not touched the economy and could have strengthened the purchasing power of the citizens. Speaking of expats. Many parties are full of their own risks. The penalty for being sick should actually be lowered. I referred to it at the beginning of my contribution. The PVV wants to eliminate its own risk altogether. We would rather spend 4 billion on the sick of the Netherlands than on Africa, but that is a choice. We can already arrange today to reduce our own risk by €100 next year by abolishing the expat scheme. Now the question is: does the PvdA prefer to give an advantage of over 900 million to the so-called pathetic expats who go home with several tons, or does the PvdA choose for the sick in the Netherlands? I wonder what the choice will be. I come to speak about Europe and the euro. This week we were surprised by a visit by Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz, not the least. He made it clear that the euro was a failure, a dead end, a historic blunder. I couldn't have said it better myself. When the PVV said this, we were hoarded, but now we get approval from the great Stiglitz. He called for a rapid dismantling of the euro. The euro inhibits our economic growth and increases the gap between North and South. The euro even widens the gap between rich and poor; that should appeal to GroenLinks. Moving on is not an option. It costs billions and billions of wealth, resulting in instability and high unemployment. Eventually, the euro will collapse. I wonder if the Minister of Finance also refers Mr Stiglitz to the wastebasket, if he dares. I wasn't at the debate in Amsterdam, but I've heard things about it. Not only is the euro bankrupt, the fiscal pact is also bankrupt. There is nothing left of this supposedly strict SGP. No one keeps to it, fines are a farce, and there's constant blackmail about it. Not only is that bankrupt, the banking union is also bankrupt. It has been started once to prevent citizens from paying for weak banks, but what do we see? The Italian government wants to pump 40 billion into zombie banks. That's the Italian government, that's the taxpayers. The ECB accepts bad loans as collateral and even wants to buy them, against all agreements. Deutsche Bank is now calling for a European fund of 150 billion to help the banks. That's all taxpayers' money. What happened to that deep bail-in? Monetary policy has, of course, also failed. The ECB is completely lost. All the buttons are out of control. The interest rate is zero, the money presses are working overtime, but nothing changes: zero effect. Inflation remains historically low. All I can think of is that Draghi meets his own motherland with a nice long low interest rate, as well as his own Goldman Sachs friends, so they can easily step out of Italian junk bonds. Draghi is not there for Europe, but for his friends in Rome and New York. The worst part is that this minister is watching our retirement pots and our savings evaporate. Do I hear an apology? No, of course not, because the Minister benefits from this low interest rate, while our pensioners are being ruined. Pensions need to be reduced while the minister pays 1.5 billion less interest on public debt. I had a cough, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u164	Yeah, I'm not the worst! Do I hear an apology? It's about 1.5 billion dollars of money you don't have to do anything for. The PVV has already proposed to compensate pensioners for the Minister's profits. That was a reasonable proposal, but unfortunately we got zero on the record. The British are smarter. They're talking about the pound and his boss about their own currency. They do not transfer billions to Greece, Spain and Portugal. They'd be crazy. They are not in the banking union either and therefore do not have to guarantee Italian zombie banks. That's the only reason the banks won't leave the city. They'd be crazy. The United Kingdom will not have to transfer 12 billion more to Brussels for membership money. That money is much better spent in their own country. Full of gloating, the urophils watched the Brexit. They talked about chaos, smoking rubble, Cameron as a pyromaniac and the light that would go out in the City. Now, Minister, the light is still on. I have news for you. In The Guardian, I assume you are also reading it, today it says that the IMF has lowered the growth forecast for the Netherlands from 2% to 1.6%, but at the same time predicts that the United Kingdom will be the fastest growing economy in the G7 by 1.8% this year. The IMF does apologize for the fact that it was so pessimistic about the British economy the day after the Brexit. The stock markets are at record level, the industry is running like a tierelier, the confidence is completely back, the unemployment is low and so I can go on for a while. The United Kingdom wants to become a champion in free trade. The trade agreement with Australia is already in place. In a few years' time, we will see how wise and courageous the decision of the United Kingdom to leave the Union was. I'm rounding up. In recent years, the cabinet has been completely out of control. We have lost a lot of growth and jobs because of the poor clean-up policy. The cabinet has blinded itself to the shortage and a trail of destruction. I therefore expect from this minister a mea culpa. I expect him to apologize for the budgetary policy he has pursued, to apologize to the 555,000 unemployed and to the 35 000 companies that had to close their doors, to apologize for the breakdown of care for the elderly, the reduction of pensions and the loss of purchasing power. Was drawn: Jeroen Dijsselbloem. I'll hear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u165	I am so curious whether Mr Van Dijck would like to apologize for something too, for example for the things that Mr Wilders, in particular, has called here on behalf of the PVV in recent years. For example, I see no headline tax in the counter-budget or PVV's amendments. For my part, I'm suggesting that you apologize for that ridiculous proposal that you're putting people away with. Mr Van Dijck asks the cabinet for a mea culpa and an apology, but I wonder in what areas he himself would like to apologize for the behaviour of the PVV in recent years, and in particular of Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u166	The PVV stands up for the Dutch people, for the Netherlands and for the future, also for my children. Mr Nijboer has no children, but I have three. The PVV is worried about that. The PVV is also concerned about the elderly in the nursing homes. That's what we're doing. I am not sorry for standing up for that and proposing measures to safeguard the freedom, space and purchasing power of those people. It may well be that there is something Mr Nijboer thinks the PVV should apologize for, but the general picture that we always have in mind is the Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u167	I also kept a whole story about the importance of our children's future. I fully share that point with Mr Van Dijck. But I'm still suggesting that he apologize. Mr Van Dijck also points out that there may be things he can say sorry for. Maybe he can get it over with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u168	I don't know them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u169	Mr Wilders made the following statement in the Volkskrant: "Islam is the Qur'an and nothing but the Qur'an. And the Qur'an is the Mein Kampf of a religion that aims to eliminate others, who call others "non-Muslims" "unbelieving dogs, inferior beings." I am asking this question because the essence of my speech was that you should do it a little bit together in society and that that is also economically sensible. Mr Van Dijck is quite an amusing man in his dealings, but if he had so much to say about the government's statements and policy, he would also be pleased if he himself had distanced himself from this kind of ridiculous, really toe-curious and people-toeing statements against each other. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u170	Mr Nijboer seems to think that is ridiculous, but Mr Wilders has only quoted from the Koran. We see it every day. During the General Political Reviews, Mr Wilders read out a list showing that an attack is taking place almost every day in Europe. Mr Nijboer can close his eyes to what is going on outside. It doesn't matter, because that's what all the PvdA mayors do. They look away and they try to cover it up. It's just two months under the cover of a girl being raped by three asylum seekers. That's the PvdA! Because of that look away, we have such a big problem. We're not looking away. We say it's 5:12, and we have to deal with it now. That's what we do, for starters, by closing the borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u171	I am so curious which country would Mr Van Dijck prefer to live in rather than in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u172	I prefer to live in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u173	At the same time, Mr Van Dijck presents such a dramatic picture. According to him, it's all wretched and tormented and damaged here. But in the meantime, this is the world's fourth most competitive economy, and I mentioned it in my contribution "and the ninth most innovative economy," also because of the fact that we support innovation. The Netherlands is second in Europe when it comes to the least risk of poverty or the least risk of poverty. The Netherlands has the best pension system in the world. It has the best care in Europe. It is the fourth best country to live in and the third best country for the elderly. The Netherlands has fifth place in the Human Development Index and, on a personal note, is also the most gay-friendly country in Europe, although there is still work to be done. Why is Mr Van Dijck so gloomy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u174	The answer is very simple: because we want to keep the country that way. We see this country heading in the wrong direction. The VVD lets in 60,000 asylum seekers. Perhaps Mr Harbers was busy preparing for this debate, but yesterday the Secretary of State of V and J announced that two crimes take place in and around the azc's every week. The VVD imports a big problem. Those 60,000 are gonna be 120,000 next year if they can all get a family member to come over. All 120,000 have to live here and all have to go to language classes. You can't catch the whole world here. That's naive. We want the Netherlands to remain exactly as Mr Harbers just outlined. But when 500,000 people are imported from Africa and Syria, it is at the expense of everything Mr Harbers just mentioned and of our prosperity. I am not even talking about violence, crime and the disappearance of the solidarity of this society. Mr Harbers had to go outside and look in the neighborhoods where stones are thrown through the windows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u175	Finally, Mr Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u176	I note that Mr Van Dijck can only blame himself. If he had really wanted to solve these problems seriously, there were a lot of plans in the previous cabinet that he should never have run away. If it really mattered to him, he should have continued to work with the previous cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u177	I don't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u178	Then you don't have to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u179	Perhaps Mr Harbers knows proposals from the previous cabinet that allowed us to close the borders, get out of Schengen or make a fist against Europe, so that we did not have to take up 60 000 asylum seekers from Europe. I haven't seen those proposals. We ran into one wall, against the other wall and against another wall. Mr Leers, who did his stinking best, said that Europe must not do it. We had to let everyone in. Anyone who knocks on the door here, even though he comes through eight safe countries, we must give a future here and give money for a long time. That's the VVD! She has to name the facts and not look away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u180	Before the dinner break is suspended, I would like to say to Mr Grashoff and others who have been through their interruptions that I will be a little bit over the heart in a moment. If you really want to ask a particular question, you will have the opportunity to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u181	Mr. Chairman. Today and tomorrow we will conduct the latest General Financial Reviews with this Minister of Finance and this Secretary of State for Finance. Even though I am here as the fourth opposition speaker, I would like to start with a compliment, because public finances are in good shape. The budget is approaching balance, debt is falling to 60% and the budget is sustainable in the long term. That is a big difference from the situation at the time of the start of this cabinet. With the age of AOW, the housing market and social security, many measures have been taken to ensure that the budget is much better. This applies not only to the budget, but also to the economy, because things are getting better. Growth is picking up, unemployment is falling, and since last week the Netherlands has become one of the four most competitive economies in the world. I think it is important that we realize how well we have it here and that we live in one of the richest, wealthiest and happiest countries in the world. That is the background to which I am going to talk for ten minutes on subjects where it can be done even better. My first question is whether it could not have been better by now. According to ING and Professor Bas Jacobs, this is the case. Can the Minister please take ten minutes to reflect on these reports tomorrow? Much has already been asked about this, and I think we should keep that in mind. One thing is certain: we would have gotten through the crisis better if the reforms had started earlier, even before the crisis. The Minister recognizes this as well. However, until 2012, he was a prominent member of a political group that was not ready to make the necessary reforms effective. History isn't going to repeat itself now that the economy is getting back on track, is it? The minister is again a candidate for the Second Chamber election. I would add: beautiful, and I hope that he can keep his party on the straight track. Because the economy may be improving and the budget may be sustainable, our welfare state is not. He seems pretty social, but he's not at all. Let me give you an example. If you are born now as a child of a highly educated father, you usually have a highly educated mother. If both your parents are highly educated, the chances of you taking a good education are much greater. With that good education, it's easier to find a job, and certainly easier to get a permanent job. If the trend continues this way, in ten years' time half of the low-skilled will have a flex lane. With your good education and your permanent job, it is also easier for you to buy a house and thus build up capital, subsidised with the mortgage interest deduction. You can therefore build up a larger part of a fiscally attractive pension. I can go on like this for a while, but the core is clear. If you have a head start at birth, it automatically increases during your life. Our systems are increasing inequality. Parties like GroenLinks and the Socialist Party want to combat this inequality by making the redistributor turn even harder. They want higher taxes, especially for workers, but isn't it much better to opt for large investments at the front instead of the big redistributing at the back? Isn't it better to spend a lot of money on education for young children, to avoid puff classes and to invest heavily in teachers? Is it not much better to make the labour market and the contract accessible to all for an indefinite period of time? The trade unions are impeccably defending the Work and Security Act, but the current labour market rules mainly result in the best protection for those who already have the best opportunities. I see a better, but above all a fairer, labour market with lower labour costs, reducing the risks of illness and a fairer dismissal system. Our pension system also needs a thorough renovation. The current system is not transparent and very interest-sensitive. It simply does not fit in with this labour market anymore and, if we are not careful, causes a major generational conflict. From young to old, participants lose faith in this system, and I don't think that's crazy. At the same time, this is a sin, because thanks to our system, the poverty among the elderly in the Netherlands is lower than ever. It no longer comes from this cabinet, but the next cabinet will, as far as we are concerned, cut those buttons for the future system. Our commitment is a better system in which we collectively invest, in which it is clear how much money you have saved as an individual participant, with a fund of your choice, regardless of your employer, and more freedom of choice. The tax system must also be thoroughly affected. Secretary of State Wiebes had already started a plan for a tax reform, in which the main objective was to reduce taxes on labour. That's a good direction. D66 would like to reduce the burden on labour, including by taxing pollution much more heavily or through a larger local tax area. Unfortunately, the reform of Wiebes, as I call it, has remained a missed opportunity. Last year we discussed this in detail and made a great deal of talk about it, but another cabinet cannot ignore it. A modern tax system also fits a modern tax administration. The reorganisation of the Tax Administration seemed to be a successful project. "Leek" because I fell off my chair at the unheard-up and the complete emptying through the spacious departure schedule. 80 million in tax money went to departure bonuses for people who were about to retire. Where the Secretary of State previously promised that continuity would not be compromised, this morning's letter is suddenly about risks to continuity. Processes might be under temporary pressure. I expected a more intelligent arrangement from this Secretary of State. I think it is very commendable to him that he admits in no uncertain terms that much has gone wrong. However, I would like to know in detail how this could have happened. I also want a guarantee that no taxpayer or surcharge recipient will be affected by this. The tax system brings me to the 2017 budget. For years, the line was that the burden on labour should be reduced. This is good for employment, but it is now partly reversed. That's a very unexpected step. The employment discount is reduced by EUR 462 million. A person who works pays €100 more tax. Can the Minister explain this choice? D66 supports the purchasing power package to which that money goes, but why has coverage not been found in, for example, pollution taxes, such as fossil gas taxation? Then the knife cuts on several sides: the economy is greener, people are left with more money and employment is rising. In our counter-budget, we have put forward various alternatives, such as the taxation of coal, the taxation of gas or the tax advantage for rich expats. I would like to hear if the cabinet is prepared to hold on to the line to make work pay more and to look with us at alternatives, for example when dealing with the Tax Plan.' As I said, D66 supports the purchasing power package. For beneficiaries and pensioners there was a threat of a minus, but it has been repaired. At least, that seems to be the case, because now that the real care premiums become known, that picture can just change. To be honest, I do not understand very well that various insurers in our group have already indicated before the summer that they expect substantial increases in premiums, from 6% to 7%, while the increase in premiums in the budget, which is included in purchasing power, is only 3.5%. Why does this projected increase deviate so much from what is happening now? Did that come out well in the purchasing power picture? I am also surprised by the cuts in lifelong learning. The cabinet abolishes the training allowance. There will be a new arrangement through the Ministry of Education, but with less than half the money. Of course, if a system can be more effective, it can always be said, but cuts in training do not seem to me to be a sensible measure at this time, when lifelong learning is so important. The same applies to the deduction of monuments. A better arrangement is absolutely good, but why is half of it being cut? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. On the expenditure side, we have arranged in the General Political Reviews that a hidden cut in education is not at the expense of the funding of schools. That's good news. After long opposition pressure money also goes to the Ministry of Security and Justice. Better right before the election than never. It's good that this money is coming. When I read the documents, I was wondering whether the Minister of Finance actually thinks so. In the spring of last year, he said that security and justice should first tackle the problems rather than ask for extra money. I have a question of conscience for the Minister. Doesn't it hurt to let go of the budgetary rules for this money? D66 supports additional expenditure, even if it violates its own budgetary rules. I have heard several parties today express their support for this package. Why is this being muffled away a little bit? Why is the expenditure framework first being increased, after which it seems as if it is closing? The Minister looks very surprised. I'm very curious to hear his response tomorrow. In total, the cabinet spends 2.3 billion more than previously agreed. This is on the balance, right? I'd like to get a response. When I look a little malicious, I see a pattern. Pretending to close the frames while they're actually being exceeded. Pretend there's extra money going to education while there's another cut hidden somewhere. Pretending to increase purchasing power while still very uncertain with the rising care premiums. Can't the rich budget, I ask a little rhetorical, tell the honest story? I'd like to get a response tomorrow. These were almost all my questions about the 2017 budget. I have another one, a technical one for the techs among us. Is it true that there is still a gap of more than 2 billion in the budget for 2016, the so-called in=terminal? Does that have to be filled for 2 billion? Will the Minister fill this out? Is it realistic for it to be filled out? He's nodding already, but tomorrow I'll be happy to get the full answer. Is that money actually coming in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u182	I was just wondering about the debate on the budgetary rules. Of course I do. I also know the answer, because it was already in the pieces. Yes, the boxes are closed in spring. But if you do have a lot of space, it's really half of what was agreed at the beginning of the cabinet period. Why wouldn't you use that space for a few major social issues, such as security? It particularly raises a question for Mr Koolmees. He acts like he's fighting this, but didn't he want to take this money out? Or did he want to cut back on other things? I didn't see that in his counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u183	I would like to recall my own text: D66 supports the additional expenditure, even if it violates its own budgetary rules. I just read that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u184	Then the rest of that argument isn't necessary, is it? You act as if you are very strict with the budgetary rules and the Minister must reflect extensively on them tomorrow. Then just support this budget, even if the frameworks were closed first and have been raised again later because it can and because it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u185	As Mr Harbers knows, he has worked for Mr Zalm and we have the well-known salmon standard in the Netherlands. This means a strict separation between revenue and expenditure and a ceiling on expenditure. Such a system does not work if we change our frameworks every now and then for whatever reason. That can also be very good reasons. This has happened a few times in recent years, also due to the 6 billion package, supported by D66, which was in 2014. The boxes were also adapted at that time. But we actually have to go back to the trend of fiscal policy, back to maintaining those frameworks. That is also the opinion of the Study Group on Budget Space. I find it striking, surprising, that in such a table in chapter 3.6, framework tests, that I always open first when I read the Millions note, there is a zero, but that you have to read underneath: we just let it close at zero, because that worked out so well. Then be transparent about it and say that balance has been sent in recent years. Again, D66 has been involved. But let us see it, so that the next period is also back to the good side of the trendary fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u186	It's gonna be interesting. I agree that you should stick to the frameworks, but we've also worked on that kind of thing. That is why I will not say very big words about it. It would perhaps be a nice question: if we could see Mr Koolmees again in a cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u187	Oh, dear!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u188	Can we keep him to these words?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u189	I've learned from the Prime Minister that you shouldn't answer questions like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u190	I was afraid of it, but I will record this part of the report in my archive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u191	I think it would be wise to be simply transparent about these frameworks, also because of budgetary policy. We have received a new opinion from the Study Group on Budget Space. It's a wise advice. A number of things are being done, for example the exchange rate development. I also know that exchange rate development is a very difficult concept to explain. But the fact that you have frameworks also means that you have to stick to them, or at least be transparent about them when you cross them. You shouldn't artificially close them to a zero. That's my point. I wonder whether the Minister will be able to make a flaming statement tomorrow and explain to me why it is wrong what I am saying. I see at the moment at the head of the Minister that such a flaming speech is approaching. If we look a little further than one year, we can see that the budget is in good shape. A surplus is in sight. That's nice, but risky at the same time. There will be room for investment and lower charges in the coming years. But let's not make the mistake that everything gets a little bit. D66 clearly wants to invest in education and innovation. These are investments that strengthen our position as a competitive economy. Investment in fundamental research, for example, or in good education for our children, will never be made private. D66 also wants to invest heavily in clean energy, to catch up and to meet the goals of Paris. This requires great success and great investment. These investments can also be made on a private basis through strict legislation and good tax incentives. Through a public investment bank, we can speed this up. D66 is also in favour of this initiative. We also included it in our election program. We think this is a sensible addition to pulling these private investments off. The cabinet will continue to work on it during this cabinet period. What results can we expect before March? And can the minister give us a hint of the veil? What's he thinking about in this? All in all, the Netherlands is quite well in place again. It has to be, because around us there is a lot of uncertainty. In the Middle East, it's still chaos. The American elections can have big consequences if Trump wins. And there are also big risks closer to home. Brexit's at the door. Mr Van Dijck was very optimistic about this, but I think it has to start in January next year. And the consequences can only be assessed, but they will not be positive. No one knows what will happen at Deutsche Bank, but if it fails with a bank that is three times the size of the Dutch economy, the consequences are great. How does the Minister anticipate this? The ECB is still pursuing a very broad monetary policy with a large buy-back programme and extremely low interest rates. The Minister roughly mapped out the consequences of these low interest rates two years ago. But what's his analysis of that? Are the disadvantages not greater than the benefits? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. Mario Draghi has been calling on euro area politicians to reform for four years. Unfortunately, this does not have much effect in some countries. How much longer is this gonna go on? What is the Minister doing to encourage his colleagues in Europe and in the eurogroup to reform, indeed to strengthen the whole euro area? The situation in the world shows that, despite our good starting position, there is every reason not to sit back in the coming years. In order to maintain our top spot and to offer everyone in the Netherlands fair opportunities in the labour market, in the housing market and in pensions, we must continue to adapt. Stand still is back. Let us prove in the coming years that we have actually learned the lesson of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u192	I am glad that Mr Koolmees is also in favour of a national investment bank. However, I do wonder what has changed. In 2010, my predecessor, Mr Irrgang, proposed such a national investment bank. This would enable us to ensure that there is sufficient credit for small and medium-sized enterprises. Then D66 voted against, just like the PvdA, which is now putting forward the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u193	What is your question, Mr Merkies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u194	What happened in the meantime that changed D66's mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u195	I see a very important task, particularly in terms of investment in renewable energy and in the digital economy. We have already tried in recent years to guide our large amount of pension money, so the money we have been saving and sitting in our pension jars, to investment. We see that some parts are doing very well. As I think Mr Nijboer has just said, wind at sea is now going very fast. That's all private money. Oh, Mr. Nijboer didn't say that, but I'll say it. Wind at sea is going very fast. The investments are going to be very large. At the same time, with the Paris agreement, the CO2 targets and the great ambition for renewable energy, a lot of meters must be created. McKinsey made a report a few weeks ago stating that over the next few decades, it will take some 200 billion to make that climate adaptation possible. We see a lot of private investors who want to invest but need a public guarantee or participation to bring it about. I am convinced of this analysis. That's why it's in our election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u196	I think that's very good, but the question is: why now? In recent years, we have also seen that small and medium-sized enterprises lacked credit and that there has been insufficient sustainability. I welcome the fact that Mr Koolmees is doing this, but I am also a little surprised because D66 did not come up with it earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u197	We need to take things apart nicely. I have also heard Mr Merkies very often in recent years argue for the holding of ABN AMRO or SNS in state hands. I have always said that this kind of banking business belongs on the market, because of unfair competition. That's not the government's job. I said that at ABN AMRO, I said that at SNS and I still support it. I have also made no mention of SME financing, because I still find it difficult when it comes to credit policy. However, I do not see large-scale investments in climate adaptation, renewable energy and the digital economy getting off the ground now because there is too much uncertainty. Sometimes the business cases are good and they can earn back but it takes too long for a private investor. The government can contribute to this. That is a slightly different analysis from that of Mr Merkies, but that is part of the nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u198	Before I give the floor to Mrs Schouten on behalf of the Christian Union, I would like to inform you that Mr Omtzigt has just submitted the announced own-initiative paper. It is now in the legislative office and is shared as soon as possible via Parlis (Parliamentary Information System). Mr Omtzigt is working on it. It's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u199	Mr. Chairman. Usually you look at the situation and look ahead, but involuntarily we also look at what has been going on in these General Financial Reviews. It is, at least in missionary status, the last budget of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. During this period, the Netherlands has sometimes literally experienced the crisis. During this period many roofs were repaired as it rained. It was not optimal, not simple but necessary. My group has contributed to this. The aim was that the housing market could be healthy again and that the AOW and care would remain accessible and affordable not only for current but also for future generations. In recent years, three values have been at the heart of the Christian Union. 1) We must invest in the opportunities of the present generation, but certainly also in those of future generations. 2) Everyone counts in our society. 3) People and families have the freedom to make their own choices. These principles have also led to us not being able to agree with the Tax Plan last year. Our tax system, to speak with the words of Leo Stevens, is divisive. It sets up groups against each other: young versus old, zzp'er versus employee, tenant in the free sector versus homeowner, and last but not least one earner versus two earners. The cabinet stands by and looks at it and let this happen. This year, too, the cabinet has managed to submit a polarising tax plan, or let me put it mildly: a tax plan that does not reduce the gaps that have arisen. Last year, the cabinet celebrated 5 billion in favour of the two-earner in particular, without reforming the now elderly tax system. Moreover, the 5 billion remains largely on the consumer side and hardly contributes to economic growth, according to Macro-Economic Recognition. If it was the cabinet to do economic growth, then perhaps it could have invested better. I'll get back to you on that. Let's be clear: it's got to be better next time. Charge relief and revision of the system must go hand in hand. As far as my group is concerned, the tax system quickly becomes fairer and simpler. But that doesn't mean that the cabinet will quickly cancel the education deduction as of 2018 and thus react over its grave. The cabinet uses this burden increase to some extent to solve "comprehensive budgetary problems," I read in the explanatory memorandum to this bill. Where is the time when income and expenditure were separate? And what does the Minister actually think of this bill from the Secretary of State? By the way, I understand that the Secretary of State will soon remove some deductions. Because with his policy he lets the Tax Administration drain so quickly that impossible all the work and all the checks necessary for this type of deduction can be done permanently. My group is deeply concerned about the enormous outflow of staff from the Tax Administration. This cabinet has got the expenditure under control, but will it still have the revenue under control with a tax administration where between 5,000 and 7,000 employees leave? Isn't there a crucial knowledge disappearing at the IRS? And how will Secretary of State Wiebes prevent that crucial knowledge and experience from disappearing? Is he able to retain some of the employees who have indicated that they are leaving? That seems to me to be a better strategy than hiring outsiders. That Secretary of State Wiebes admits the mistakes is nice, but what is he going to do to solve the mistakes, to prevent us from missing tax revenue in the future? With regard to a earner, the cabinet has acquired purchasing power with a lot of art and flightwork just above zero. Let me also thank the Cabinet. It has given effect to the commitment made to meet the single earner with a chronically ill or disabled partner or child. This does not alter the fact that the difference in tax burden between the single and double-earners with this Tax Plan is again increasing. With the average increase in care pay than this cabinet has expected, the middle-income earner is hit even harder. It was the cabinet that delivered the roaring message on Prince's Day: everyone is getting better. Can the cabinet indicate whether this promise still applies when the actual care premium is included? Does that little plus, for example, stick with the one-earner? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Public finances are in order and the economy is gaining momentum. These are encouraging messages, but the question is how sustainable it is. I don't want to be a doomthinker, but inside the house the peace may have returned, but outside it storms quite often. The situation with some German and Italian banks is worrying. We saw in 2008 where problems with banks could lead. Now the Minister will undoubtedly refer to the Banking Union and the bail-in, but the IMF has called Deutsche Bank the biggest risk to the international financial system. Can we go to sleep quietly, according to this Minister, or is there a chance of a new system crisis in the financial sector? And is the cabinet prepared for the latter? The ECB's unprecedentedly broad monetary policy, with a quantitative increase of up to 80 billion per month and the recent purchase of corporate bonds, would be the panacea for the economic problems in the euro area. However, it is extremely uncertain whether there are positive economic effects. In fact, the Dutch Bank itself is now saying that monetary expansion will lead to a reduction in interest income for banks as of next year, with the result that banks will be able to lend less credit. So the ECB's monetary expansion and interest rate policy are not only bad for the pensions and other savings of the Dutch, but also for the Dutch banks. In short, our own Dutch Bank finds that the ECB's horse's tool bites itself in the tail. Whether monetary expansion has positive effects is therefore very doubtful. What is clear is that a drug is being administered to the economy which turned out to be de facto a poison pill during the previous crisis. The risk of bubbles due to high debts, for example in the housing market, is huge. Our national mortgage debts, after falling for a few years, were about 10 billion higher by the middle of this year than a year before. With the rapidly warming housing market, the end of this increase is not yet in sight. The mantra is always that the ECB is independent and that we should not interfere politically, but this policy of the ECB does affect many pensioners and households with savings and now also our banks. It increases the risk of new bubbles. It brings the pressure from the reform cottage in southern Europe, which starts with France. We don't have the beginning of an answer to the question of how we can ever reduce QE without pain. That is, after all, the annoying thing about monetary expansion: whether it works is very doubtful, but it is certain that tightening up is always economically painful. How does the Minister view these issues? He's got to worry about this more and more, isn't he? It is time for us now to understand the costs and revenues of QE, of quantitative expansion for the Netherlands. Is the Cabinet prepared to ask the CPB to provide insight into this? We have the right to know what this policy of the ECB means for now and for the long term. In this way, there will also be a fair discussion and we will be able to take measures of our own to address the possible disadvantages of ECB policy. I am counting on a friendly commitment from the Minister. If we want to strengthen our economy in a credible way, the Christian Union believes that we should not do so with the ECB's bubble machine, but with reforms in southern Europe and targeted investments in northern Europe. Think of investments to make our economy truly sustainable and to make the transition to a CO-neutral economy. The Council of State also stresses the need for this. This involves major investments. For years, this cabinet has been talking about an investment institution to be set up for this purpose. There has been no mention of anything in this area so far. Is that investment institution still getting off the ground in this cabinet period? In addition to the large investments that are being made, more and more relatively small-scale initiatives are emerging from communities to provide care, energy, food or housing. That happens a lot in a cooperative sense. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, such initiatives deserve the full cooperation of the government. We have recently published a note on this subject with the PvdA. One characteristic of a cooperative is that the members bring in the capital and are all co-owners. Especially for medium-sized cooperatives, for example in the area of housing, it may be difficult to raise enough capital to set up the cooperative. Banks are also reluctant to do so, because they are generally social initiatives that are not aimed at achieving returns. This creates thresholds which we believe should be reduced. Is the Cabinet prepared to examine how cooperatives with a social objective can better access funding or funds and come up with concrete proposals to make this possible? This is the last budget of this cabinet and one last chance to do the good things for this country. I wish the rulers every success in this. If they need inspiration for good proposals, I would like to refer them to our counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u200	Mr. Chairman. Fair sharing, sustainable growth and public finances in order; that was the government's commitment in 2012. We're four years ahead and it's time to take stock. Public finances are in order; this is something that this cabinet, and certainly this finance minister, should take note of. However, this does not alter the fact that looking critically at how things have gone and what can be learned from it should also be part of good governance. That doesn't seem to be the right thing to do in this cabinet. ING published a critical report which confirmed that a tough austerity policy has lost a lot of jobs. Prime Minister Rutte put the breeze aside as "ING unworthy." Minister Dijsselbloem calls it "a very poor analysis." There is also a critical comment from the General Court. He writes that we don't really know what the effect of about 50 billion in cuts has been. The economic response of the Minister of Finance is typical of this. Do we really want to know what the social and financial side effects of rigorous austerity policies have been, or do we prefer not to? The cabinet doesn't seem to want that. So it could be an uncomfortable truth. Have we not, with overzealous austerity policies, cut those approximately 350 000 jobs, with similar consequences for benefits, a reduction in income tax, social uncertainty, declining consumer confidence, this very negative circle? Can the Minister promise that he will still have that evaluation study carried out into a number of major measures in accordance with the recommendations of the General Court of Auditors? I am concerned about the expected structural development of our economy in the coming years. If I look at the build-up of the expected economic growth over the next few years, I can see a growing share of exports, but also a flattening level of investment in both homes and businesses. See Millions note, page 15. That doesn't look healthy. A flattening level of investment in housing indicates the lack of much-needed sustainability of housing stock. The decline in investment in companies indicates relatively little innovation and the absence of much-needed energy transition within industry. In the future, will we really be back to what we were before, namely 'The Netherlands Box Slideland'? I thought we were done with that outdated development perspective. Can the Minister explain these graphs in the Millions Note and indicate the cause of this, in my view, unilateral economic development? I am also concerned about the possibly related stagnant growth in employment. We are at an unemployment rate of around 5.8, but it does not seem to fall and in the long term it seems to be falling only very slowly. That's not good. It is too easy to say that more and more people are entering the labour market. That's what we wanted, isn't it? We have also worked with each other through policy, also with the agreement of my group, that this would happen. Then you have to make sure there are jobs. Employment growth is falling sharply in 2017 and in the longer term. I know that in the usual CPB model, employment effects are particularly debatable, because they are always based on an infinite demand for labour, which is an unrealistic starting point, and therefore any measure in favour of non-working people in that model also reduces employment. However, it would be desirable for the cabinet to have a vision of how to promote employment. I do not have a specific policy objective and I do not have clear, concrete measures that are based on that objective. Can the Minister explain to me what is the reason for the expected fall in employment growth? And with what active economic policy does this cabinet really want to make a battle in reducing unemployment? I come to the goal of "fair sharing." It nevertheless focuses on the question whether under this cabinet income inequality in the Netherlands has become greater or not. This question was already on the agenda during the General Political Reviews (APB) recently. Prior to this, GroenLinks and the SP had properly listed the purchasing power figures of recent years. The reaction of the Finance Minister was not even economical, but basically just hautain: the figures of the gentlemen are all wrong and that makes their plan very unbelievable. Still standing the APB we submitted the figures to the CPB for verification. The answer came quickly: the numbers are right. In the final analysis, the CPB presented an even more negative picture: the low incomes improved by 4.3%, the highest by 7.2%, and in between there was another category that improved slightly more. And: benefit recipients improved 3.8%, compared with 9.1% for workers. The least the Minister can do now is acknowledge that these figures are objectively correct. Is the Minister willing to do that? Then we get to the follow-up question: can and will the cabinet also do something about it? Does the cabinet still want to fulfill its promise of "fair sharing"? I'd like to get a reaction to this. It's okay. It's okay. GroenLinks and the SP would like to help together. We have a clear amendment in store for that. That is what we are preparing for the treatment of the Tax Plan, where it belongs. With this amendment, we are linking a piece of the increase in income at high incomes back to, in particular, the lowest incomes through the general tax reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u201	When I joined the Chamber in 2010, at the time of Mrs Halsema, GroenLinks felt that work had to be paid and the labour market had to be reformed, and it was in favour of greening the tax system to reduce taxes on labour. Now I see that GroenLinks, together with the SP, has submitted a plan to actually increase taxes on work. On the one hand, it reduces the working discount and, on the other hand, it is returned by means of a kind of generic tax reduction for everyone. I have two questions. How much does GroenLinks actually increase taxes on work? And why hasn't GroenLinks chosen Mrs Halsema's old line to reduce labour taxation through greening?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u202	In our counter-budget, we both do. Mr Koolmees can read that in that too. At the moment, we are opting for a fairly straightforward proposal to fix something that actually went wrong last year in the Tax Plan. That is the extension of the third disk, the associated downgraded increase of the third disk rate and the touchpoint of the fourth disk. We're turning that back now. Together with the effect on the reduction of the general tax rebate, this is simply a piece of redistribution within the income building. That can be done fine, but that is a political choice. We very much agree with Mr Koolmees on greening the tax system. We are. I am also very interested in his thinking about job reductions and so on. It's fine to think about that. But if you want to be a society of solidarity and you note that in recent years the non-working people in this country have been largely behind, that it is putting pressure on solidarity in this society and that it is creating tensions, then that inequality must also be addressed. I would like this insight to grow with D66 as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u203	Of course, I've been looking at this little plan and I've been looking into it. I note that the tax on work is already going to increase from below average, starting at €33.000. In total, the tax on work is being increased by around EUR 800 million, especially at a time when working must pay; we have been sharing all these stories for a few years. On this section GroenLinks, together with the SP, follows a kind of old-left course. I'm gonna be disappointed. Then it is indeed about redistributing rather than increasing opportunities, making work pay and rewarding people for effort. Why does GroenLinks choose the old-fashioned angle instead of the modern one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u204	I don't recognize myself at all in qualifications like "old-fashioned" or "modern." I think we have a number of issues to deal with in this society. One of them is how you deal with income distribution. D66 has always clearly differed from GroenLinks on that point. Perhaps that has been a little less at times, but it is quite clear that we are making different choices on that point. Nor have I heard from the side of D66 about the position of non-working people in this country. And that's also characteristic. There may be that difference. The voter has the right to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u205	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u206	But then concretely. My first question was: by how much does GroenLinks increase taxes on work? In my opinion, that's about 800 million. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u207	That's in the order of 800 million, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u208	I was just chewing on this, because Mr Grashoff did bring out all these figures and models very quickly. I would like to return to the beginning of his speech on redistribution. That was about workers and benefit recipients. This was also the subject of the General Political Reviews. What did GroenLinks have in store for this cabinet period? I will help Mr Grashoff: workers also made more progress than beneficiaries in passing on the GroenLinks programme that was in force for this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u209	We must now, on the basis of actual developments, note that it is important that a cabinet that spoke of 'fair sharing' also involves non-working people. We are now translating that insight into a concrete proposal to resolve it. That's what's going on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u210	Mr Grashoff felt that it was all so wrong in this country, but he himself had a programme in which the category'more than five times the minimum wage' improved by 0.5% a year and where benefit recipients improved by 0.25%. GroenLinks should not sell fairy tales here as if it were all walhalla. In fact, I remember a little debate in the General Political Reviews saying that it had to be looked at in absolute terms. Well, in absolute terms, working two-earning people at GroenLinks would have gotten two and a half times more than the lowest paid. When will Mr Grashoff just admit that this country is as flat as a dime in terms of income inequality, that it is also a valhalla in that respect, perhaps also for Mr Grashoff, that you can be a quarter of a dime here and that you have every chance here, in short: that this is a fantastic country, as I said before dinner break?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u211	This is really the story of the VVD: this country is a walhalla and if you don't find it, you suddenly belong to the people who just put down doom scenarios. I don't put doomsday scenarios here. I am referring in fact to developments where income disparities are widening in a country which has traditionally relatively small income differences. We are proud of that and we want to keep it that way. We can see that income differentials are increasing. We also see in the analyses that income disparities will continue to increase in the coming years with unchanged policies. And then it can be a political goal of the VVD to make that happen and at the same time to continue to call into what kind of walhalla we live, but it is not a walhalla for those people who have had to make ends meet over the last few years and who have ultimately fallen enormously behind in their purchasing power. I call pensioners with a small AOW and hardly any supplementary pension and beneficiaries. That is not a walhalla, Mr Harbers! That's very difficult, and very much watching the little ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u212	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u213	The reduction in the burden on high incomes last year could thus also have gone to the lowest incomes. That is what we are proposing with this amendment. We will undoubtedly discuss this further in the Tax Plan. Fair sharing means not only fair sharing for workers but also for non-working people, and that is actually absent. Which brings me to the issue of tax avoidance. In 2014, this Chamber adopted a special motion stating that we should not call the Netherlands a tax haven. Long live freedom of speech, Mr Van Vliet. I'll tell you, the Netherlands is a tax haven. I would like to curse one more time in the church: The Netherlands is a tax haven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u214	Freedom of speech is at the top of my list; it is beyond question. But if a motion from me is adopted in this house, which is based on people wanting to put the Netherlands in the fucking corner, knowing damn well that there is an international discussion about which countries have very strange legislation, then my motion expresses that you should not contribute to it by saying that the Netherlands is, in that sense, a tax paradise in the context of that discussion. The Netherlands is precisely the country with the highest rates of taxation on labour. It's a country where you pay dog tax! I was in Mexico, where a taxi driver said to me: I would like to emigrate to the Netherlands. I asked him why. He says, "You are rich; I am poor." I say, you got dogs, right? I saw dogs at his house. He: yes, yes, I have ten. Me: With us, you pay taxes for every dog. He: Oh, then I'm not going to the Netherlands, because you are certainly not a tax haven. That man was right! Mr Grashoff, we are only a tax haven for MPs from the SP and GroenLinks, because you yourself are cooperating in this horrible deduction scheme, which you are using to steal taxpayers. I do not call the Netherlands a tax haven and that is my right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u215	I do not miss Mr Van Vliet's right. I hope, however, that he will recognize in his own story that it is a little selective. And that's exactly what stings me. In the case of ordinary citizens, up to and including the dog tax is collected very hard. Everyone pays their fair share, but in the end our tax morale is very low when it comes to multinationals. There's aggressive tax planning going on. The Dutch legislator offers the opportunity to do so. We've got 20,000 empty bv's in the Netherlands, in which about 4,000 billion in capital is tricked back and forth. This leads to tax avoidance. This is, to a small extent, at the expense of many economies and people here and also worldwide, on a very large scale. The tax morale of multinationals must be addressed. At the same time, we need to clean up the Netherlands of those 20,000 empty e.g.s and that 4,000 billion in capital being tricked back and forth, with the only real motive for avoiding tax here and worldwide. With this practice, we are under serious international criticism. No motion in this Chamber will help. That's just a fact. We are called a tax haven by many around us, from Germany to the United States. In the meantime, we are taking very small steps forward in combating tax avoidance, but that does not touch the core of the right of existence of these letterbox companies. Let's put an end to that. This can be done, for example, by imposing stringent requirements on the substance of companies. I'm making a suggestion for that, but I'd like to trade it for a better one. Let us link to the turnover of a company the clear requirement of tangible and intangible goods and services produced in the Netherlands. If you choose that ratio correctly, filter out the empty bvs. If a company does not fulfil its obligations, the tax advantages and access to Dutch tax treaties lapse, one of the reasons why this type of company settles in the Netherlands. If they don't meet, they have to leave. Is the Minister prepared to submit various options for increased substance requirements to the Chamber before the Tax Plan is dealt with, so that we can think about that further? I come at my own risk in health care. GroenLinks also wants to get rid of its own risk. The cost of own risk is too high for people with a minimum income. Avoiding care is extremely bad. People should be able to get the care they need. Eventually, it is bad anyway, because second-time care avoids often leads to higher costs, because you get hospitalized. Eventually it will be difficult, because they are high costs; we certainly realize that. We don't think we can get this done in 2017. In the end, it seems logical to us to resolve these issues in the tax system. Through a progressive tax system, the strongest shoulders bear the toughest burdens. In the pass-through of our election programme, everyone can read more about it. For 2017 we would like to see a broad-based desire in the Chamber to continue a development in this area, perhaps a first modest step. As far as we are concerned, this must be done for the most vulnerable groups, including chronically ill. Could the Minister respond to this? Does he see any possibility of giving effect to this wish, which has now become more and more widely expressed in the Chamber? Otherwise, we're gonna help him with that. The development cooperation budget for 2017 has fallen to a sad low of 0.56% of GDP, while issues such as the world's refugee flows are bigger than ever. We have to do something about that. Is the Minister prepared to maintain as a policy line that the contribution from ODA funds to refugee shelter is limited to an amount that could be distilled from the long-term average, and to take the rest overall? I'm getting to climate. Despite the Urgenda ruling and the Paris agreement, it appears that this cabinet is extending further measures which are urgently needed. While these are necessary for the sustainability of the Netherlands in all its aspects, including the sustainability of public finances to make them successful. There's no need to push that forward. It's possible. Steps can be taken now. We will also make proposals for this, such as increasing the energy tax for large consumers and redirecting that money in terms of energy savings and renewable energy in industry, a CO2 tax for power plants so that we can close the coal plants quickly and adjust the add-on and redirect it to fiscal advantage for anyone who buys a truly clean car. To this end, we will come to the Tax Plan with detailed amendments. Does the Minister agree with us that speeding up the energy transition is necessary and urgent, including from the perspective of sustainability of public finances?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u216	Madam President. Compliments to the cabinet, including the SGP Group. Colleagues have already said that the deficit is falling and is even becoming a surplus, debt is falling rapidly, there are many reforms, employment is rising and the Netherlands is in the top four when it comes to innovation. This is largely due to government policy. Fifteen years ago, Mr Van der Vlies was a Member of Parliament for the SGP and spokesperson for finance. He asked me to comment on the cabinet's plans for dealing with the budget. I said it was bad plans because it was economically bad and it was being cut. Keynes had taught me I had just graduated economist that you shouldn't do that. You have to cut back when the economy is going well, because then the private sector doesn't need it. You just have to spend extra money when the economy's going bad. When I listen to the stories of my fellow Members in this way, I think everyone agrees. Yet there are five parties that have supported austerity in bad times. Bas van der Vlies then said to me: yes, boy, but that's not how it works. He could say that so beautifully, and he could say that at his age. From box K I now hear the words "I hear him say it." Yeah, that was really Bas. By the way, I didn't say Bas at the time, but neatly "Mr. Van der Vlies." In the meantime, I can call you Bas. This intrigues me, because we have actually done this for the last five years. In that sense, I have followed in his footsteps. I would like to hear the Minister of Finance about this, because we really want to reverse that mechanism. We have fallen into the trap because previous Cabinets have not done enough. Then we had a financial crisis and a euro crisis. At that time we had to cut back, because otherwise I think we would have had a debt of more than 100%. No one wants that. I would ask the Minister of Finance, who will no doubt have thought about this in the recess, including the political reality, that you will have the same problem in five or ten years' time. I think that will happen if we do nothing. I can see it with some of my colleagues. I will not mention any names, Madam President, in order not to provoke any interruptions. Yes, Mr Koolmees! It is already announced that there is a surplus and that you can reduce taxes. So that's basically against Keynes. It's going better, and then you shouldn't. I'm afraid my party will also be tempted to do so, especially if everyone is going to do it. I hear from professional K that that's an honest remark. Yeah, I always try to be honest in politics. We'll fall into the same sword after all. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, on the basis of his responsibility for the national finances, not only for the short term but also for the long term, whether this is indeed the lesson of Bas van der Vlies, so that this is the political reality and that we should do it. Or are there mechanisms, for example in the budgetary system, that finally allow us to reverse this so that we can get rid of the laws of Van der Vlies? A second question is as follows: I agree with colleagues on Bas Jacobs, ING and the General Court. I too would like to have more insight into what we have done well, what we have done wrong and what lessons we can draw. At the same time, I have one more day in the week to occupy the professorship place Empirical economy of the public sector. My experience in the knowledge is that I already have a lot of difficulty calculating the effectiveness of one measure in a rather quiet environment. Let alone add dozens of measures in an environment where there is both a financial crisis and a euro crisis, where there is an open economy in which everything is happening and in which I have few time series. If we can offer more than we have now, I ask the Minister. We've asked the Central Planning Office to look into things and we have our evaluations. I'd love to. Don't think of it as cynicism and don't think of it as "we have to sit down." I'd love to. But the question of looking at the whole package and telling us exactly what we did or did not do well is, in my opinion, an illusion. I agree with my colleagues on the risks that still remain: a high debt, possibly new crises, a euro that may lead to some problems, a Brexit, geopolitical risks, the unsolved security issue, a defence budget that is inadequate, the concern that we do not yet know whether the costs are really under control, a labour market that still needs to be dealt with and pensions. When I look through my eye hairs, I actually see a budget that is no longer so ambitious for the rest of the reigning period. I understand that politically, but I would like to hear from the government whether we are not leaving too much for a new cabinet. I would like to say a few words about the single earner. I guess I don't have to say so much about that. I ran into Mr Nijboer in the hallway this morning. We were quite distant from each other when he said to me: don't you think it is unfair that a earner with an income of €60,000 pays far more tax than the two-earners who live next door to him and together earn two times €30,000? I think the message landed. Are you sure the cabinet isn't gonna do anything? Mrs Schouten has once again made it quite clear that the gap is widening. A motion by Mr Schalk was adopted in the First Chamber asking the government to come forward with proposals to reduce the gap. And what does this cabinet do? It comes with a tax plan that widens the gap. Are you sure the Cabinet isn't gonna do that? One should not think that I am not grateful for the measure for earners with a disabled partner. At this point a very nice movement is being made in the care and we are very grateful for that. At the same time, the Minister will agree with us that this is only a small group of the much larger group of earners who pay thousands of euros more in taxes. "Together" is a verb. The cabinet actually recognizes that, too. Not only paid work is important, but also care and volunteering. However, this is not reflected in taxation. There's no other way? If we ask more people in the area of family care and volunteering, should we not know more about the relationship between paid work and unpaid work? We couldn't hear about that anymore, I'm asking the government. We will, together with the CDA, table an amendment on defence. Perhaps that amendment will roll in before the end of the sitting. We believe that there is not enough support for the defence sector. Much more should actually be done than what we are asking for in our amendment, but at least we are taking an extra step here. We will also be tabling an amendment with others tomorrow to increase investment in development cooperation, because we believe that there is too much savings and there is too little budget for that. That amendment is still in the process of being tabled, but I hope it is in favour of the answer. I would like to mention three short points. I would like to hear from the Minister about the VAT exemption. It is simply taken away in agriculture, when agriculture is already in a very difficult situation. There will be a further increase in the burden of 17 million for agriculture. With regard to the deduction of monuments, I agree with Mr Koolmees. I'm gonna call it in here, even if it comes back to the Tax Plan. Perhaps it would be more convenient if I joined positive spokesmen, as I own a national monument myself. However, we all have an interest in the Tax Plan, so that actually applies to all possible arrangements. I do have one more question: when will the alternative arrangement come and why is it being cut? Finally, I agree with the positive arguments put forward by the national investment bank. When can we meet this bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u217	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u218	Last but not least, Chairman. I see everyone's still awake. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is not a tax haven, far from it. We don't have zero rates and no banking secrets. We've never had one. The Netherlands is therefore not a tax haven. I am glad that a clear majority of the Chamber supports me on this point. Politics is about the distribution of money. The General Political Reviews are therefore an important debate, as are the General Financial Reviews. Both are a fun prologue at the real thing, the annual tax plan. I am proud to participate for the second consecutive year in the General Financial Reviews with its own counterpart budget, which has also been passed on by the Central Planning Bureau. I congratulate D66, the Christian Union and GroenLinks, the groups that have managed to achieve this. Imagine, Mr President, that I, like those three groups, would have a senate group. Then I could score big on the 2017 Tax Plan. Indeed, I remember that "First Chamber" was the most widely used term in the four-day debate on the 2016 Tax Plan. In any case, in the new four-day debate on the 2017 Tax Plan, I will try to convince colleagues of my good intentions with amendments and motions, even though there is no senator of the Van Vliet Group. This debate is about the main points. In front of us is the budget of the Cabinet for 2017 and the counter-budget of the Liberal MP Van Vliet. The Central Planbureau then talks about the Van Vliet package, abbreviated PVV. That is very confusing when you realize that in my package I have especially taken into account the principles of the last VVD-election programme. All this has been poured with a sauce from the Van Vliet group. But let me clarify: like last year, I am committed to simplifying our taxes, especially by reducing instrumentalism. Taxes are not there to guide citizens' behaviour but to finance public services. Without prejudging the debate with the Secretary of State on the Tax Plan, I would now like to ask the Minister of Finance what is his opinion on the ever-expanding tax law bundle by constantly honouring small or non-small interests in taxation. Where do we find the balance between broadening the base and lowering the rate on the one hand and the craftsmanship to acquire majorities in the fragmented political landscape through the award of partial interests on the other? In short, is the minister in favour or opposed of this ever-expanding instrumentalism? I hear a lot of those who are in favour of a major reform of the tax system. I refer to the distinction between self-employed and self-employed workers, with an increase in the number of self-employed workers at the expense of the number of employees. I'm thinking of pumping money through horizonless surcharges. I'm thinking of discussions about life-form neutrality. I refer to the shift from taxation on labour to taxation on consumption. I would like to draw attention to the reality of the capital efficiency levy in box 3. I refer to the shifting of the fiscal autonomy from The Hague to local authorities or even to Brussels. They are all themes that feed the discussion and provoke the debate here. At the same time, we realise that after the elections of 15 March 2017, a cabinet of more than three parties is most likely to be formed. Then agreement on major reforms with bribes needed to compensate is farther away than ever. Beyond a slight shift from taxation on labour to taxation on consumption, I do not see it coming. Do the Minister and the Secretary of State share my expectation? If so, should we not focus on improving and simplifying what we now have, within the possibilities we now have? In other words, should we not pick the extra low-hanging fruit? More fundamentally, I am asking whether a radical reform of the existing system is really necessary. We know the progressive tariff disc system based on the principle of carrying capacity. Apart from the high top rate, this still works well in my opinion. We have a boxing system in income tax which is only 15 years old. I don't call that ancient. We have a turnover tax which is highly harmonised. And we also know that the OECD and the European Union both want something with our tax on profits. Does the government still agree with the principle of carrying out the tax on income? What do the rulers think of some parties' plans to experiment with a flat tax? Doesn't a flat tax lead to infinite compensation effects at the bottom of the income spectrum? The Tax Administration has yet to make a major impact on further digitisation and the establishment of reliable systems. Is there not also a no go for major operations in the next cabinet period, especially after the General Court's warning? In other words, can these directors confirm that speculating on a forthcoming major reform of the Dutch tax system is a lost effort? I come to my proposals, which are mainly aimed at reversing to some extent the continuing leveling that is creeping in under this cabinet. The Netherlands is one of the countries with the smallest income disparities in the world. I do this de-levelling mainly by not reducing the so-called labour discount in income tax for middle income and higher incomes anymore. This measure by the cabinet has cost thousands of jobs or at least severely reduced employment growth. Ask labour market experts. They'll all confirm it. I would therefore ask the Minister to have the employment effects of phasing out tax rebates properly passed on to the Central Planning Bureau. Is he willing to do this? By the way, I hit two birds with one stone, as the reduction of the working discount has become a terribly complex operation. The removal of this phase-out will therefore immediately result in a significant simplification, which will greatly contribute to fiscal transparency. Then why does the cabinet continue to reduce the working discount, which has been reduced to a flat rate? Of course, I'm glad the economy is clearly improving. Perhaps it could have gone even better if less taxes had been increased in the past period. The budget now before us is a poor one. I understand that, because in six months there will be elections. But the reduction of EUR 5 billion from the previous budget is more to me. Surely it would be nice if the Central Planning Bureau would use calculation models, which not only include ex-ante effects, but would also include ex-post effects? We would then also be able to see how much positive welfare effects and economic benefits would result from tax relief and tax reduction. The removal of the reduction in working hours is a good start, as far as I am concerned. My amendment on this of course follows on from the discussion of the Tax Plan. Compared to government policy, I cut around EUR 3.5 billion on various public expenditures, such as development aid, supplements and subsidies. In addition, I am abolishing a large number of small tax concessions worth over 3 billion. This gives me a total of EUR 6.5 billion for other priorities. Of these, I am committed to 4.6 billion for relief and 1.4 billion for new expenditure. The quick calculators among those present immediately hear that money is left. In the Van Vliet package, the budget deficit is also more than 400 million lower than in the Cabinet's Millions Note. With regard to this additional expenditure, I have listened to the call from employers' organisations. Money has to roll to make our economy grow again. You may know the NL Next Level project of VNO-NCW. There is a very interesting thing in that, namely an investment fund. I am therefore making a structural reserve of EUR 1 billion for this investment fund, which, in cooperation with many private parties, will eventually result in EUR 10 billion from a flywheel function, which can grow to even the astronomical amount of EUR 100 billion. What exactly this fund will look like and under what conditions it will be filled, we will still have to negotiate. But the Van Vliet package has already placed a serious offer on the table for this flywheel. In addition to these investments, I am also giving more money to Defence, Mr Dijkgraaf, namely EUR 650 million extra instead of EUR 300 million. A substantial growth path for Defence is essential for our military, our allies, but above all for our national security in this rapidly changing world. I think we can find each other at this point, but we still need to talk behind the scenes about coverage. As a liberal, I say: you should not raise taxes, you should do it in a different way, and I have succeeded, but I will explain it to you, Mr Dijkgraaf. I'm gonna finish up. There's more in my package. I am reducing excise duties on diesel and LPG, and I am reducing corporate tax by 1% to ensure our competitiveness, indeed, Mr Harbers. Also very important in my package: I found the necessary cover to halve the rental charge. This provides a strong boost for the housing market, in particular the rental market, where an increase in supply is urgently needed. We had a round table meeting with the permanent Chambers Committee for Housing and Rijksdienst. I have rarely experienced such a consensus from all the invited parties, from the whole spectrum of the social domain. Everyone said that this tax actually locks up some of the investments. I found the courage to scrape half of that. I am quite honest: 1.7 billion has been estimated. Almost everyone has already spent that money on other things, so it is very difficult to brush that away, but let's make sure that we keep the conversation going at this point. All of this I will turn into amendments and motions when dealing with the Tax Plan. I would also very much like to see my fellow Members back in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-25.u219	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Tomorrow we will continue with the first term on the part of the government. For this moment, I thank everyone.
