ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	We need the first-term response from the rulers. I would like to repeat what we agreed on on interruptions at the start of this debate. These are undoubtedly numerous, but short and powerful. I'd like to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would also like to thank the members of the Chamber for all the questions raised and for their input. It was a pleasant and constructive debate on Tuesday evening, with some critical notes from Mr Van Helvert. I see that as a kind of fighting skill in Limburg, but I have experienced it as pleasant. Before we really go into the substance and tell you which blocks we are going to deal with, I would like to say a few words about the context of the budget. It is a special budget. As has already been recalled, it is probably the last of this cabinet. If things go well, a new cabinet should have been formed in the next budget, but you never know. It is also for me personally the last, my twelfth. You never know, but that's a choice I made this time again. In the last 15 years, with a three-year interval that I have been out of, I have actually seen all areas of the ministry and have been able to defend them during budgetary discussions. I have always done this with great pleasure: now as a minister with in my portfolio the roads, the maritime waterways, spatial planning, water and nuclear matters, but also in the past as Secretary of State, when I had the aviation, the rail and also the water in my portfolio. I'm actually proud of the Ministry. When I see what has been resisted all these years under the leadership of very good officials, I'm just glad I've been able to work on this all this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	There is a strong contradiction to this story by Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	No, Mr. Chairman. I really liked the start of the second term. As Members of Parliament, we are always kept strictly to our speaking time, but I take the opportunity, through an interruption, to thank the Minister very much, on behalf of a number of others, for her willingness to do so all these years and through her staff as well. I think she is right to call attention to them. Thank you again for that. We are also very happy to continue this budgetary discussion with this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. I know they all hear it, so that compliment to the staff arrived immediately. Now, of course, you think I'm gonna take it back, but I assure you I'm not gonna do that for a while. It takes a while before there is a new cabinet, so my ambitions remain completely high until then. In short, it is about keeping our country moving and our infrastructure and our policies creating room for initiative. This is very important for economic dynamism and for viability. I also think that we have achieved a great deal. Mrs Visser has already asked about the balance sheet. We have taken steps as a cabinet. The economy is attracted. 1.7% growth is a good first base. I believe that with the ongoing investment in our infrastructure we have also made a significant contribution to this. The basis for a strong economy is and remains a good infrastructure that gives people and businesses sufficient room for manoeuvre. I always call it the backbone of the economy. I am now going to start with the substantive answer. I have already answered a number of questions in writing. I have also formulated a number of blocks through which I would like to discuss with the Chamber the questions that it has asked. I will mention them, and I will tell you later when I will move on to another subject. I would first like to talk about full accessibility, so accessibility in its entirety. Then I would like to focus more specifically on Infrastructure Fund and management and maintenance. Then, more sectorally, I am talking about accessibility on the road, smart mobility, cycling and road safety, and finally about spatial planning and water. Unfortunately, little is ever asked about spatial planning. Mr Smaling has consistently tried to do so, but the other members have been less concerned. On water, we have another legislative consultation in two weeks. That is where the subject will be discussed in detail. I'll just start with the first block and that's the integral accessibility. Many Members of the Chamber have pointed out that it is becoming more crowded in our country. Some of you have explicitly mentioned the hustle and bustle on the roads, but of course we see the same thing on the track and on the water. The cause is positive. That's the growing economy. It moves people and goods. We can see that in the longer term too. The largest growth is seen in the regions of Amsterdam, Rotterdam-Den Haag and Utrecht-Eindhoven. We've got a visual on these bottlenecks. We are conducting MIRT studies on these regions, but we have already started several projects in the past to deal with them. It is important that we take a broad look at the task and the solutions. That's a change I made a while ago. So it's not new that we're looking at accessibility integrally. That has actually already started with the Better Benutten projects. We do not intend simply to continue with the sectoral approach. We do not intend to look on roads, railways or waterways alone, for example to Mr Van Helvert, who warned about this. We're going to come up with door-to-door solutions with all the modalities that apply. What matters is that accessibility is central and not infrastructure. We also want to use all the intelligence to make traffic smoother. Technology can help us with that. We therefore do a lot to develop smart mobility. I will come back to that separately later. Ultimately, of course, it's about seducing people and making it easier for them not to rush into rush hour. Like Mrs Visser, I am assuming free choice, but a push in the back can sometimes be effective in, for example, alleviating the rush hour. With the Better Benutten programme, we have caused 19% less delay in rush hour. Every day we are talking about almost 50,000 peak-away things. That's what we do with employers. There is a very strong network of 2,100 active employers. This will reach 175.000 employees. It is very important that you do business not only as a government, but also together with the surroundings. As far as I am concerned, therefore, accessibility is the starting point. The Court will also see this in its financing. This brings me directly to the Infrastructure Fund. The world is changing under our hands. On the one hand, we must invest in the long term. The lead time of our projects is on average 12 years. So you also need to be able to plan your investments far ahead. On the other hand, technological developments go very fast, climate targets demand action and constant renewal of our policies. When the economy reappears, you see effects again. With all these changes, it may sound decisive and tempting to wall-lock all our project ambitions in the longer term, but that is not wise. That also requires something of the way in which we finance our programme. In order to keep the Netherlands moving, we are carrying out a major investment programme for roads, railways and waterways until 2028 and now until 2030, as you have read in the budget documents. We're funding that from the Infra Fund. We have extended this until 2030, and we have also made a choice for a further extension. However, we also opt for a new approach. Flexibility is a core value. We realize this by not capturing the money at the start in rigid project solutions, but by linking it to area-oriented programmes. Last year we started doing this in Brabant, where instead of the ring around Eindhoven, we chose to use a programme budget. We will now do so in other regions, as you have also read in the MIRT letter. In these programmes, together with the region, we will look at the most sensible choices and all the developments that are going on, linked to the choices that are also made regionally, for example for business locations or land-use planning or urban development. This includes a more integrated and flexible way of financing. I said something about that. The Infrastructure Fund is therefore being adapted. Mr Smaling asked for this too. The cabinet announced a number of measures in the cabinet response to IBO-Infra to become more flexible in the planning and financing systems. That is what we are doing step by step with new projects. By extending the funds now and making them forward-looking, we can ensure that challenges can be addressed now and in the future and that our infrastructure remains at world level. There are still divisions between roads, railways and waterways in the Infrastructure Fund, just as we see in the Delta Fund between water safety and water quality. Mrs Belhaj asked whether the view of the world could also lead to the conversion to a accessibility fund, where you might wonder if you should still have those bulkheads. In our cabinet response to IBO, we indicated that the cabinet is now exploring the advantages and disadvantages of such a accessibility fund. We will inform the House of the outcome of that reconnaissance this cabinet period. A more flexible commitment can have advantages and disadvantages. It is therefore important to have a very clear picture of what this would mean. So we'll get back to that soon. Other questions have also been asked about funding. Of course, Mr Madlener asks me every year to invest more money in roads, while other Members of this House are asking for more money to be spent on rail and inland waterways. It's just what everyone's taste is in that area. The Secretary of State and I have made the choice that we have now laid down in the 2017 budget. We invest from the Infra Fund in both roads, as well as railways, as well as waterways. On average, I invest around EUR 2.6 billion in roads every year up to 2030. I think we can go a long way ahead of that. It is true that we contributed to resolving the financial and economic crisis of a number of years ago and that we took money from the Infrastructure Fund to do so and then to use it elsewhere. At the same time, however, we have continued to invest heavily, even this year. Next year, we'll be investing nearly 6 billion. In 2017, we are talking about 2.4 billion in roads, 2.2 billion in railways and 0.9 billion in waterways. Because mobility is increasing, even in the longer term, we have decided, as I said earlier, to extend the Infrastructure Fund by two years until 2030. As a result, 10.9 billion additional space will be available for the Infrastructure Fund and 2.6 billion for the Delta Fund. The signal is therefore very clear: there is and will always be money needed for the Dutch infrastructure. When considering investment, we aim at the most serious bottlenecks. They're in the lead. Whether these bottlenecks occur in the region or the Randstad does not really matter. It cannot be said that there is a strict distribution of 80% Randstad and 20% region. That is not the case. Based on the models, we look at where the problems arise and we invest there. Sometimes we invest in a certain part of the country, but the whole country benefits from it. The A15 is a very good example of this. The widening of the A15 at the Maasvlakte is beneficial for the entire freight corridor through the Netherlands. That's west of the country. But the port of Rotterdam again benefits greatly from passing through the A15 from Bemmel towards the A12 in the east of country. It is therefore not always possible to say whether an investment in a region is beneficial only for the region or whether it is beneficial for the whole economy. The latter is what we look at from a national point of view. What benefits will the Netherlands, for example, benefit most? With regard to the use of the extra money, we are reluctant to spend it in order to prevent our successors from having room for their own choices. The Secretary of State and I have decided to allocate a maximum of 1.4 billion to this cabinet period for new ambitions and risks: 749 million for new roads, 553 million for rail and 98 million for waterways. This is what we are discussing this autumn with the regions in the MIRT note-to-note consultation; then we will come back to it in detail. The point is that we invest sufficiently in infrastructure. I have already indicated that these are long-term projects. There has to be some certainty about what's going to happen. This provides the basis for strong economic growth. If we do not, the traffic jams will run out unnecessarily, the trains will become overcrowded and we will deliver on logistical quality. That doesn't suit the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	I see that Mr Madlener, who has waited long enough for him to do so, wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	The crazy thing about this policy is that the minister naturally inherits what her predecessors have sown. In this way, the following Cabinets will only be able to open up the paths to which the Minister has taken a decision. We are now witnessing a huge increase in traffic jams, and this cabinet has over the past period taken a huge amount of billions out of the Infrastructure Fund. I note that the number of route decisions and the number of road plans, which its successor will be able to open, has fallen dramatically. Can the Minister indicate what her successor is going to reap from what she has sown, other than the cuts? We all see that those billions have disappeared. The Minister may extend this in 2030, but the money needed for the coming years is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	I have always indicated to Mr Madlener that we have cut back on an ascending budget. This means that our spending is not so bad at all. I was expecting Mr Madlener to come up with this question again, so I have put it all together again. In the five years for Rutte I, the period 2005-2009, we have spent 6.624 billion a year. In the six years of Rutte I and II, including the austerity which Mr Madlener is always referring to, we have spent 7,721 billion. The budget from 2016 to 2028 indicates that we will spend 7.003 billion on average. This means that both the Rutte I and II Cabinets and subsequent Cabinets are still about half a billion above the 2005-2009 period. So yes, money has been taken out of the fund, we have had to cut back and it has become "less," but there is an upward trend. That's about the succession. Mr Madlener is right that you always reap what your predecessor sows. What my predecessor did well is that in a difficult and complex time when everything was locked up because of the sudden need for an air quality programme, the NSL, he carried out a number of emergency routes. He has widened a number of existing roads by converting to a part of the road on the side or by adding an extra piece next to it. That was the only thing I could do at the time. That has also brought an advantage. I am still working on questions about the Infrastructure Fund, management and maintenance. I will be back on the roads later, but this has really brought an advantage by reducing the number of traffic jams. I myself have been working on creating and creating large missing links with the surroundings and the Chamber, such as the ring around Utrecht, the passage of the A15, the Blankenburg tunnel and the connecting of the A13 and the A16. They will, of course, have an even greater impact on solving the problem, as it will make the network more robust. You actually get an alternative when there are traffic jams. That result is going to reap my successor, because it will eventually open those paths and take the first starting decisions. This too, I believe, is a good legacy. Mrs Visser asked in the course of the preparatory work which route decisions were taken in the previous period and during this period. As the Chamber has seen, that's just a whole list. I think it is important for the future to know that we have done our utmost. I think we've realized a lot. So we give the successors a nice basis. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I am perhaps, like Mr Madlener, a sort of caterpillar-never-satisfied, because of course it can always be more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	In the continuation, we'll both do it a little bit shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u11	I am of course very happy, for example with the A4 Central Delfland. We see a huge improvement in the accessibility of the Rijnmond region. That has been really fantastic, although of course some parties in this Chamber always say that more roads create more traffic jams; I especially look at GroenLinks. We see that's not true. More roads lighten the traffic jams. That's fantastic, but the next few years the number of kilometres of new asphalt will decrease. That's exactly my point. The Minister can look at 2030, and if you take the average, it will of course not be too bad, but over the next five years, the number of kilometres of new road will decrease, which are just desperately needed. That is, of course, also the legacy of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u12	No, there's still a lot going on. We're working on the A1, the A6, the A9 and the A10 and we're getting results. There are also many other projects currently underway in the country, all of which will be delivered. For the MIRT-consultation, we might be able to figure out what is or is not going to be added. Again, we invested a lot. You'll see all that in the outside world. There are still a lot of investments to come; so will the successors. That is also necessary, because as long as we grow, we must also continue to invest in the physical infrastructure of the road, rail, waterways, smart infrastructure for smart mobility and the programmes of Better Benutten. We're just gonna do everything we can to keep our country going. In the context of such a more comprehensive approach, it is, of course, very logical that Mr Smaling...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u13	I believe that Mr Van Helvert of the CDA wants to place an interruption on the same general point. This interruption will also be brief and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u14	The Minister said that it is not the case that there is deliberately less investment in the region and more investment in the Randstad, but that investment is being made where problems exist. That seems logical to me, because it should be added that there is a deliberate reduction in investment in the region. However, the figures of the Rijkswaterstaat, which have been neatly put together and which have been added up and deducted, show that in recent years 80% of the infra-funds have ended up in the Randstad and 20% in all other regions. I understand that this does not need to be put on a scale; we have said this before and we also understand that something extra must be done in the Randstad for mainports, but a ratio of 80:20 is quite out of place, especially given the number of inhabitants and the percentage distribution of gross domestic product. My question is, therefore, whether the systems and modules that are used to calculate whether something is a problem in the ministry are correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u15	Once again: an investment that falls down in a particular region can also affect the whole country, but let us leave that aside. We are, of course, having a lot of discussions with the various regions. I call everything 'a region' in the Netherlands, but that is a difference in definition. We have about five regions and we are talking with them in the MIRT reports. It is often said that your system does not show that we have a problem, but that we have a problem as such. As a result, two years ago, we decided to take a closer look at the larger road surfaces, but also to look at the road surfaces, and to make the economic weight a little heavier. That model is ready. It has been discussed with the regions. In the next capacity assessment, sometime in spring 2017, this will be reflected for the first time. This is going to mean that you can see where the problem is at a much more precise, focused level. In the Randstad it is often about very large road surfaces, while in the region it is about very specific points. These specific points can often be solved with a better Benutten approach, but sometimes also with physical investments. On the occasion of the next NMCA that will come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u16	I think that's quite right. Recently I asked written questions about, for example, the large number of accidents on the A2 between suits Eecht and Sittard. We asked written questions about this at the time. The Minister's answer was: if you look at the whole road surface from Eindhoven to Born, then the number of accidents is not so bad. Yeah, but the question is about that particular road surface. In Limburg the road surfaces are of course a bit longer, because it is an extended province, than in the A4, to name but a few. Then it can all be calculated out of proportion, but effectively the picture is different at that ten kilometers between Eecht and Born. Is that what's about to change in the Ministry's scope? Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u17	You are now referring more to road safety figures, which are again in other investigations. But imagine the following. We used to say: there is a traffic jam when you have the normal travel time one and a half times over a particular stretch of road. Now we've narrowed that stretch of road down a lot. We're now looking at what's going on in each section of the road to see what's going on with the fileswaart. Furthermore, there are more trucks on the road now, aren't there? It's heavier than that. We will come to road safety, also one of the headlines, but we will also do a lot more in-depth studies, so that much more specific risk analyses can also be carried out in certain areas. I think that is also important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u18	I'm about to listen to the story of the integral approach. Road safety is now a separate heading, but traffic congestion is also caused by road safety. Take the N50, the N35 and the N36 in Overijssel or the A2 between Weert and Eindhoven. If you look at it in its entirety, you'll see that traffic safety is the key to the traffic jams. But perhaps the Minister will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u19	That's why we have two budgets. There is a budget for the fight against congestion, and there is the More Secure Budget, which allows us to address specific road sections where road safety issues play, also to promote the flow of traffic. Of course, road safety is always very much taken into account in the installation. That's part of the call for tenders. I come to the integrated approach. I was just beginning to say that Mr Smaling asked me about the ideal mix of modal shift. Of course it would be nice if you knew what it was like, but the ideal mix does not exist in all respects, so I can assure him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u20	Can we try to choose the wording in such a way that the people in the public gallery can follow it? You mentioned modal shift.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u21	"Modal shift" is a term we always use in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u22	Hence the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u23	Let us put it this way: Mr Smaling wondered what the ideal mix of both passenger and freight transport was, also in terms of type of transport. The ideal mix is hard to give. The Planning Office for the Environment (PBL) cannot answer that question either. Of course, it depends very much on the individual choice, on the need. However, we can create conditions for it. I think the most important thing is to ensure that there are wide and better choices and that passenger and freight transporters can make the best transport choices themselves. With programmes such as Better Benutten, we are also trying to promote this, for example by moving freight from road to inland waterway transport. Of course, money goes not only to new projects, which I have just mentioned, but also to a very large extent to management and maintenance. And that's a good thing, because we just want to maintain a good state of our infrastructure. That stands or falls with good management and maintenance. Several members of the Chamber have expressed their concerns. I believe that Mr Van Helvert even used the qualification 'deplorable'. However, it is not stated in the report of the Court of Auditors that the maintenance status of the main road network is "deplorable'. In fact, there is nothing in there about the maintenance condition itself. There is only a reference to the provision of information. International comparisons show that our country is always at the top in terms of the quality and performance of infrastructure. I'd really like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr Smaling would like to return to that English term, I have the impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u25	Yes, Mr. Chairman, you've made a very good assessment of that. The Minister says, as a liberal should, that everyone makes their own choice, so you cannot think of an ideal mix of modes of transport. Of course, we can do that, namely by pursuing policies. You can stimulate or discourage tax, so the transport mix goes in a direction that you as a government want. If you choose to be as mobile as sustainable as possible with a minimum of CO emissions or other undesirable substances, you set the tax instruments accordingly. I don't hear the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr Smaling is quite right when he refers to that part. I thought he meant, "How much do we do by rail, how much do we do by road, how much do we do by water?" Of course, you can't capture that, because it's constantly moving. At times the track is more attractive, at other times the water is more attractive. But we do use the tax mix. Mr Smaling has also seen in recent years how the Empire has used taxes to promote certain forms of mobility over other forms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u27	It is easy to say that the Planning Office for the Environment would not be able to look at this. A number of years ago there was the study Nederland Later, which contained a number of scenarios. They were extreme in themselves, for example, to go all the way for nature or all the way for the economy. You can do the same with waterways, railways and road traffic. You can still separate that for people and goods. Then you can see how the country moves. It seems to me that that can be done. I am therefore curious to see if the Minister has checked with the planning agency that this is not possible, because that seems very strong to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr Smaling asked about the optimal mix. I told you that the planning agency can't give it to you. The planning agency can make scenarios, as Mr Smaling himself is now describing. But scenarios are not an optimal mix. There are just a number of different ways of thinking about the question: what if? Once again, if you had done such a study on road, water and rail a few years ago, it would no longer apply to the current knowledge about smart mobility and what that will bring about changes in our mobility. Soon it won't be interesting at all whether you're by car or by public transport if they're both clean and guided. That all changes. In that respect, it is constantly moving. I think you should just look at how you invest in it by area, by year and by era. The port of Rotterdam says, for example, that we want to do so much per cent of road freight traffic, so much per cent on rail and so much per cent on water. They are therefore committed to encouraging this with their own instruments. We do this through Better Benutten programmes, to see where the bottlenecks are. We are also doing it through fiscal policy. However, it is a moving field, because mobility changes shape and function very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u29	I have one more question, if you don't mind. A climate agreement has also been reached. This should also be given a role in the choice of transport and transport. Then a car, a truck, a van, an airplane or a inland waterway vessel is subject to strict requirements by the Rhine Commission...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u30	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u31	That's all different, and the NS is already green. Well, then it makes sense, isn't it, knowing that you have to do the same thing, to compare those cases in scenarios or in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u32	I find it much more sensible to steer, for example, towards emission-free emissions or as low as possible. I do not want to steer in the form of transport, because if all cars are clean and the roads are all energy neutral by 2030, as my ambition is, is the car still the pervert, as we often think now? Or is it the inland waterway vessel, which may only be replaced once every 10, 15, 20 years, because the investment costs are higher and it is therefore more difficult to add all the new elements to it? That's just really hard to say. As a result, inland waterway transport might think: we are going to take a step forward, because we want to remain the greenest. Then there's all sorts of things being made up. So again: I think you should send on the outcome and not on the input. You don't have to steer on how to divide it in front, but on what you want out the back. That's as clean a transport park as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u33	You also have a second term, Mr Smaling. Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u34	This was an interesting debate. I'm always wondering, how much do you want to make driving? The Netherlands is already paying almost the highest car prices in the world and we are still getting in that car with all of us. The idea of the left to make it even more expensive seems to me very bad. But that was something else. I want to talk about the maintenance of our roads. The Minister pretends that nothing is going on here, but the Court of Auditors has said that there is not enough clarity as to exactly what is going on. For example, the Merwede Bridge is now closed to heavy goods vehicles, because it just becomes dangerous. Something seems to have gone wrong here in providing timely maintenance. Of course, it can't be that you wait for a bridge to collapse and then in panic close that entire bridge. So something went wrong here and the concern of the whole Chamber is: in how many other places could this be going on, and are we going to be attacked again by a new bridge that suddenly needs to be shut down?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u35	I want to answer that, but I need a few sentences to get there. This is also in my answers. It's about management and maintenance. I did not say that the General Court did not comment on the information, but quite clearly that he did not say anything about the state of our interview. That is important, because I myself think that state is very good. I hope that in the end the Chamber will agree with that. Since 2011, we have also allocated additional resources for management and maintenance, replacement and renovation. We have made a great deal of money available since 2012 to shape the maintenance of the infrastructure. I keep monitoring that, too. As soon as it appears that there are new challenges or new risk reservations are needed, then I will also window them again. Now Mr Madlener rightly says: if it is all so well arranged, how can something like the Merwede Bridge happen? That was indeed a very annoying surprise, but of course these kind of surprises can never be ruled out. We know the age of all bridges. Mr Bishop asked if Rijkswaterstaat is monitoring this. We have the overview and we keep it by carrying out periodic inspections. Rijkswaterstaat thus has a good picture of the state of the bridges, knows which bridges are approaching the end of their life and knows the time required for replacement or renovation. We also know that because of more intensive and heavier traffic than was initially estimated, bridges reach the end of their lifespan. It's called the Replacement & Renovation Program. The bridges that come at the end of their life are also inspected more frequently and more intensively. But an unexpected situation can never be ruled out. We had already inspected the Merwede Bridge and we were already working on a replacement program. As Mr Madlener knows, this is already part of the MIRT as a follow-up to the widening of the A27. But when we were preparing for that, we found out at some point in the investigation that there was more wear and tear and that the bridge was worse. Unfortunately, therefore, we had to intervene by achieving a temporary restriction of use. In other words, we have it all in view; there are programs for it and they are all running, but it may happen that something is more disappointing than you thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u36	I don't think that's exactly how it works. If you foresee that a bridge will come at the end of its lifespan, you can of course take measures in advance, so you don't have to close it off at all. The Merwede Bridge is now closed. That seems to be a kind of panic reaction: oh dear, we only now find out that the bridge is much worse. I just want the Minister's guarantee, she says that, in fact, it should never happen again that maintenance appears to be so bad that a bridge has to be closed. I hope that's true, but I don't have much faith in that yet. A lot of bridges were built in the fifties and they are now all in the same state as the Merwede Bridge. I would like to know whether the Minister now has all the bridges, viaducts and so on. Can it rule out the possibility that a situation such as that of the Merwede Bridge will occur again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u37	We've got all the bridges in sight. We also take into account that they reach the end of their lifespan earlier than ever planned, due to heavier loads. We think about whether they should be refurbished or replaced in all the bridges. At the Merwede Bridge that was already in the picture. We've already planned an extra Merwede bridge next door. I believe that, from my head, it will be built from 2019. We'll renovate the other bridge afterwards. But when we went to do inspections to prepare ourselves for the way the existing bridge had to be renovated, we found signs of tiny hair cracks. They weren't seen last time, but they're there now. When you see it, you have to take into account the safety of the people who have to cross such a bridge, and you have to take action. That's always complicated. You can't say things like that will never happen again in the future. There's always something that can happen that we have to do an intervention. But is that because we haven't been paying attention or because these things aren't planned? No. Do you think there's gonna be any harm? Yeah, of course you can always do that. But because we have such an extensive programme, I assume that will not happen to very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u38	I have a question about accessibility, but I would like to give colleagues the opportunity to discuss this point with the Minister about bridges first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you. It's not our custom not to let women go first, but I'd like to take the opportunity to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u40	No, that's certainly not your habit. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u41	I have permission from the chairman. I can very well follow the Minister's argument. The fact that those hair cracks were discovered, of course, indicates that there is control. The Minister underlines once again that it is an incident and that it can be prevented. However, I would ask her how this relates to the Court of Auditors' repeated remark that the budget for maintenance is not exactly excessive. The budgets have been increased, but with an accelerated depreciation of lifespan, we will also have to increase budgets faster. How does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u42	The Court of Auditors has said that this is the old discussion, and it is still running at around 300 million short of our management and maintenance budget if we want to do everything in accordance with the end date. My answer was then that some things take longer and other things go faster. That is why we always have a flexible budget of 300 million. At the end of the day, the Chamber agreed to that. In the meantime, we have agreed with the Court of Auditors on definitions, for example on when something has been written off or not. So we'll figure it out. The difference between the Court of Auditors and us is therefore not the most important, because I think we will be on the same page. But what do you do when it turns out there's more to it? In flexible thinking, the bridges may have been written off rather than later. Then we're just gonna have to pay for that. This will then be borne by, for example, new investments. Of course, I've done that now. I removed the 2.2 billion from the opportunity to do new things. What do you have to do with something acute? Then you can always free up money. If we see that something is going to play in the long run, the Ministry must tell the Chamber how we are going to use the priorities differently. That's what I promised the Chamber last time, and I promise you that again. This is true if there are new areas that have not been properly taken into account. We're always trying to bring in that life cycle these days. If there are any additional risks, perhaps we in the Netherlands will have an earthquake in places where there is infrastructure; who knows, we may have to look at these things again and re-present them. That possibility and that choice is just there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u43	You don't have to interrupt in two, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u44	No, but I'd like to take the opportunity to do so. I do not hear the Minister talking about possibly increasing the budget in the long term. It's a pocket pocket. I understand that, and it has to be in order to ensure maintenance properly, but it can also lead to a real increase in budget in the long term. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u45	It's possible. That's always a choice. In the past, in 2011, I set aside a structural budget for it. Before that it always happened a bit ad hoc, with the slides. I know that in the spring of next year we will get new figures in our internals. These could well lead to an increase in the budget for management and maintenance in the next budget. As we know the fund, this means that in principle it is at the expense of something else, probably of construction. But it may also be that a new government is putting extra money into it. Of course, you never know. But anything can happen. Again, management and maintenance is very important to us. Keeping what you have in order is almost more important than building new things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u46	We also asked questions about the Merwede Bridge in the first period. I have not known this minister for very long, but I can see that in the debate a small technical way or approach to a problem is being chosen, which makes it all seem a lot less serious. But I think what's going on right now is incredibly serious. The questions that have been asked before are not so much about whether the Minister has done her best to provide maintenance budgets or how good maintenance is. They are actually about the extent to which Rijkswaterstaat currently has a good view of the delayed or delayed maintenance. The saying is, you don't see what's not there. Doesn't the minister know where the problem is? Doesn't she even know what it's like? Or does she know that and is there a kind of mega scheme in which you can see exactly what maintenance is necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u47	I just told you this extensively. Mr Bishop congratulated us on all this. We know which bridges come at the end of their life; they are also subject to additional inspections. There is a comprehensive programme for replacement and renovation. That is what we have in mind, and we know it. Last time, the level of knowledge and information on works of art within RWS was requested, because the Court of Auditors also made a comment on this. Over bridges, sufficient knowledge is available at Rijkswaterstaat, although it always requires attention to maintain the necessary specific knowledge. This is done through training, recruitment and cooperation with other infrastructure managers. The Court of Auditors has now indicated that the information system at Rijkswaterstaat has improved, but that, of course, there are still challenges. It would not be the Court of Auditors if he did not always say that. I also agree and work is under way, for example by investing in a system of area information. So I do not agree with Mrs Belhaj that it is a bigger problem than a technical problem when it comes to the question: do you have it in mind and have you foreseen it? I think it's a bigger problem for the outside world. However, that is another very different issue, namely that it has a huge effect when part of our infrastructure is closed somewhere. That's what it turns out. It has an enormous economic impact immediately. We have seen this in this region. Mrs Belhaj spoke in her speech about loss compensation. For this there is a scheme that allows people to call for compensation if it has an X effect on their income. First application's in, I've seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u48	The difference between the Court's positive remark to which the Minister refers and the somewhat less positive element. The Court states that the Minister has taken steps to ensure that definitions are devised in order to be able to accurately identify all these deficiencies. That's what the minister got a feather for. The negative aspect mentioned by the Court of Auditors relates to the fact that this information is not in order. I read that you do not have a total system in which you can follow everything exactly from a bridge in the seventies that was made from a certain material to the construction of a tunnel in the nineties. It has been added that the different contractors working and maintaining bridges seem to have a different way of registering. My question is therefore simple. If we ask the Minister tomorrow to provide all the information at the press of a button on which bridge in the Netherlands is ready...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mrs. Belhaj, this is not an interruption. This is a long time. Would you like to put it a little shorter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u50	I will. It's a long day. I would ask that tomorrow, at the press of a button, the Minister should be able to present to the Chamber exactly what is going on and to what extent there is delayed or delayed maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u51	For the third time, we have a full picture of the state of maintenance of our bridges and when they need to be replaced. Whether we can get that out of a device at the press of a button, I don't know, but I wouldn't even be surprised if I could. I think it is particularly important that we have this in mind. I consider the discussion with the Court of Auditors to be very important, and that is what the Court of Auditors is for. He always asks us to make this so insightful that it can be shared with everyone and it is available to everyone. In addition, the Court of Auditors is asking us to ensure that the same definitions are applied everywhere. So it is not that we do not have it in the picture, but it is much more about the accessibility of the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mrs. Van Tongeren, at the same time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u53	No, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u54	Mrs Visser, on the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u56	Will we then give Mrs Visser the floor first? Then we'll make a little sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u57	I'll come back to management and maintenance. This issue has often been discussed in the Chamber and steps have been taken to make it understandable; they are, above all, definition issues. More importantly, sufficient funds are reserved and, if more is needed, management, maintenance and renovation are given top priority. That's what I heard the Minister say. I'll be back on the Merwede Bridge. That situation has been extremely annoying for all those entrepreneurs and residents in Brabant who have been stuck there every day. Think about the sneak traffic, too. In the written answer to our question, the Minister said that she would evaluate this. Can the Minister tell us when that evaluation is coming? If such an emergency arises, are we well in order with the municipalities and the provinces, so that we can solve these problems as quickly as possible? In Brabant everything was fixed, including the sneak traffic from Belgium. What steps have been taken and what arrangements have been made with provinces and municipalities to resolve this type of emergency as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u58	That is a fair question from Mrs Visser. The evaluation will focus on how to deal with such a situation when you notice such a situation. That was my question, too. Whoever found this just figured out at night that it was safer to close the bridge. You should. You have to be able to make a decision when you see this. However, you may wonder whether you can't make some sort of protocol for what you have to do when this kind of sudden thing happens, so that you have a very good picture of what comes with it. What does this mean for public transport? What does this mean for other types of dilation? What does this mean for redirects, etcetera? That's what we're looking at in the evaluation. I don't know exactly when it's ready. I can check. The question is how, if something like this occurs, we will ensure that there is as little nuisance as possible and we will do so in the best possible consultation with the environment. For me, that is the essence of the evaluation. In addition, we are of course also looking at technical aspects in the evaluation. What can you see when? How do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u59	I am going to go further on this point. We also received a letter from the Secretary of State on the Moerdijk Bridge. This situation also affects Brabant's accessibility. The Minister says that an evaluation is taking place and that a protocol is being drawn up on the basis of this. Do I understand that at the moment there are no clear agreements on what to do in an emergency, both on the railways and on the roads, with whom to communicate and how to ensure that traffic can pass as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u60	There are. I did not say that there would be a protocol, but that, following the evaluation, I would consider whether there should be another protocol. I want to know whether what we have is sufficient, or whether it needs to be expanded or improved in the light of the experience we have had. We had it a while back at the tunnel near Limburg. We had to do an operation there too. In retrospect we thought: if we had otherwise or better communicated, we might have been better able to redirect and guide traffic. You need to learn from it and see if you need to improve what you have in general. I have not yet answered your question as to what we are meeting with the region. I went there myself in the autumn recess. We had a meeting at official and administrative level on the following questions. What are we gonna do with each other? How do we do it? Who's what? What's to be arranged? I have experienced this myself as a pleasant consultation, as have, I understand, the parties in the region. We have drawn up a sort of action plan together. In the meantime, of course, the bridge is being refurbished. We hope that the problem will be resolved quickly. What you gain from experience, you have to use it again for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mrs Van Tongeren on another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u62	I agree with Mr Smaling's interruption half an hour ago. I was waiting for an opportunity to go through with that. The question is how to steer as a government on a desired transport mix. Among other things, this will not surprise anyone about short distance flights and trains. Even the boss of Schiphol says that it is socially totally irresponsible to do those very cheap short flights. The ticket tax is not negotiable in the Netherlands, but what about the root? Think of being able to switch more easily. I know this belongs to the Secretary of State, but I would like to ask the Minister, because the Minister, together with the Cabinet, stands for the implementation of the Paris climate agreement. Sorry for the elaborate, Mr. Chairman. It also applies to taxes. So it's an transcendent subject. If you don't want to do it with taxes, why don't you do it with the carrot? One is to ensure that the baggage transfer at Schiphol Airport is as easy as you travel from flights to trains and that tickets are just as easy to order. Is the Minister prepared to consider how, instead of a tax measure, you can better support modal shift with more service and attention? I only gave one example; I can give you a few more. It does affect the choices people make. How do you make a choice more attractive so that it is made more often? This can be done fiscally, but also by raising the level of service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u63	I did fire on the Secretary of State because both parts are in her wallet. I don't know if they're talking about that or not. So she'll say something about it in a minute. Let me say something about it in general, as Mrs Van Tongeren asks me. With Better Benutten we look specifically at the roads where bottlenecks exist and how people can be attracted to move from one form of transport to another. Better Benutten is still very focused on a few regions. It will soon become part of the overall policy of I and M. Part of the MIRT decisions will be to consider not only more infrastructure, but also other forms and other modes of transport. Such elements could play a role in this. That is a very general point. Whether, more specifically, it is being looked at, whether it is attractive, whether it works or whether it is desirable, I cannot go into that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u64	I have the same question about inland waterway, maritime and rail transport. Can we also consider how to attract the most efficient and best-used method, which is also good to remain within the Energy Agreement and the Climate Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u65	We already do that, mainly from the traffic movements. In the case of congestion and capacity problems, we entice parties to make a different choice. We do it less from the energy point of view, but we do see that it has a positive effect on energy. With the Better Benutten programme, we have shown what the benefits are. As I mentioned earlier in the debate with Mr Smaling, this is ultimately complex because modes of transport are changing emissions rather quickly. Who is the culprit and who is not? Some modes of transport are replaced less often than others, thus reducing the pace of implementation of new technological developments. So you have to keep looking at the output you can reach and not focus on the modalities themselves. In there, you have to stay creative all the time. In that respect, we do not differ so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mrs. Van Veldhoven, at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u67	Oh, yeah. The Minister makes a beautiful little bridge to the point I would like to come back to. I know the Minister is a big fan of the self-driving car. The fleet is getting cleaner and more and more electric vehicles are being added. I want to link it to accessibility and spatial planning. I would like to talk to the Minister about this in the context of the Environment Act, but it has been less discussed here. But if you look at the combination of spatial planning and accessibility, 50 cars, including 50 electric cars, form a traffic jam on the Lange Voorhout, but not one tram. Does the Minister look in the scenarios she announced before the end of the year to make accessibility more central, including the inner city accessibility? And those 50 cars in a row that are in traffic jams in the city but not a tram, how does she take it with her when she looks at the development of modalities? D66 considers it very important that we also include the spatial planning aspect of the change of modalities when considering future scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u68	When I think of self-driving cars, I think not only of the environmental benefits, i.e. less fuel consumption, safety benefits, fewer accidents, but also of the capacity benefits, both on the motorway and inland. Because there is less gas and braking and a bit more on a train, you will get fewer traffic jams on the highways. So that's an advantage. In urban areas, you can further promote the collaborative economy. This is already being experimented with in several places. The self-driving car makes it easier not to own but to share and can easily be parked elsewhere. The clumsy use that applies to a highway, because it is only used intensively a few hours a day and other hours not, also applies to a car and almost all the stuff we have. We only wear our clothes all day, but you could share the rest. So it's also going to be easier, so that for cities there are other concepts where the car can be used in a kind of taxi construction. I assume that will also have its effects. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked this in relation to accessibility. The ibo story, the accessibility and the integrated approach are much more about the rules of the game we agree on for the future. The story about Smart Mobility goes a little deeper. This is something that we are gradually developing with each other, and I hope that we will be able to advance in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u69	Sure, and I agree with the Minister to a large extent. There is, of course, a link between the way in which you set up the financial flows to promote accessibility and the vision of not only the accessibility between cities, but also the actual journey from door to door. Of course, this also happens very often in the urban region. The flow from private to public transport and the sharing economy between them are very relevant if you also take into account the spatial planning aspects of it. That is why I ask the Minister to take this into account when developing the scenarios. Accessibility is central, and that also means looking at the spatial impact of the different modes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u70	It will be part of, for example, the National Environment Vision. We also ask these questions. What about the link between private transport and public transport? In our country there are quite small cities and everyone lives fairly scattered. I imagine you're leaving with your car, telling your app when you get to urban area that you need to switch to high-quality public transport. It's already booked for you, it's all happening with the one card we might be talking about later. You get out and your bike, your private transport, or an OV bike is ready. This makes the door-to-door concept very easy. Where people are still on the track or in the car, support through ITS will be very important. We invest in them, among other things. We have been working for a few years now to encourage, motivate and partially subsidise this in such a way that the market is getting off to a good start. I think that's going to get us a lot, because the Netherlands is a small country that is full. Making this kind of movement easy from A to B, almost apart from the modality, would be ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u71	The financial flows, budgets and the allocation of a future financing fund for infrastructure should therefore also be in line with that vision, but should focus on accessibility rather than modality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u72	Then we'll do it. Look at the better used budgets, which can be deployed in various ways. At the same time, however, you need to know that there is enough for the various things you want to do. It is not for nothing that we look at the pros and cons. If everyone in the committee agrees that a major road must be built, it must not be done that there is nothing left for rail, or vice versa, that there is nothing left for the road or waterways if we want to build the ERTMS at once. So you have to keep a close eye on the fact that the budgets are distributed proportionally, but remembering a total solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mrs Visser, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u74	The pros and cons of the accessibility fund will be further developed. I would like to give the Minister two suggestions. Firstly, the Minister says that better use is already taking place. So let's get the good stuff out and see how it fits in. Secondly, what I missed in the Minister's list is not only about the main road network. It is mainly also a question of road transport, and the example of The Hague has already been mentioned here about the underlying road network. There too, all kinds of financial flows go there. Is it taken into account that the financial flows of municipalities and provinces are linked to them? We can often talk about our money and commitment, but in terms of accessibility and flow you also talk about the municipalities and provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u75	We have at some point transferred money to the BDU for OV and away. The Secretary of State will ensure that this money is well spent. The municipalities and provinces can make their own choices about what they spend on it. I would like to talk about the research of the ANWB, which sees a lot of problems on the provincial and municipal roads. So there is an opportunity for them to get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u76	That's a little too skinny. A new access fund is being discussed. The Minister clearly states that there is a broader view and that the lessons of Better Benutten are taken into account. This is precisely about the flow of the main road network, the underlying road network and other modalities. Doesn't it make sense to make much clearer agreements on accessibility, precisely because you shape the flows of funding in this way? It should not only be an administrative consultation MIRT in which there is a dialogue, but also a real commitment to results, including for the underlying road network. Otherwise, we will continue to invest in an A2, an A15 or whatever, but we will go into traffic together to get into the city.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u77	Clear, but this isn't just about the BDU. You can also arrange it outside the BDU, because the provinces and the municipalities also have other budgets with which they can do things. I agree with Mrs Visser that if we invest heavily to unlock or improve an area, agreements should be made with regional directors in the MIRT consultation so that the problem does not turn up in another place or the efforts are frustrated. Investment would otherwise have a counterproductive effect. It may be that you invest something in the main road network that relieves the regional network. On the other hand, investment may be made in the regional network which relieves the main road network. You have to agree that the investments you make ultimately have a common effect that everyone wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u78	In the Minister's previous plea, she was open to a accessibility fund in which roads and public transport are considered in full to solve problems. It made me happy. Now I'm tasting a little bit that we're just talking about the roads. So I'll check it out. Does the Minister consider an access fund to be an integral one? Does she think that problems can also be solved by public transport?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u79	Yes. A accessibility fund is a much broader approach. Sometimes it can even be on a different plane than a physical investment. Of course, you have to stay within the legal rules that belong to an infra-fund. As you know, better Benutten is the example that could be the basis for this. In all the MIRT studies we do with the regions, we use an integrated approach as the main line. That's another thing than a fund that's got all the bulkheads out of it. That's what I'm talking about. Mr. Chairman. I would like to move on to the topic of accessibility on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u80	I think that's very good. I would like to take a look at my fellow Members and inform them that the Minister is now speaking for an hour and five minutes, of which she has been able to use 15 minutes for her own speech. Furthermore, she has been working on the response to interruptions. The members of the Labour Party have so far been very calm. I would ask the other Members to be a little reluctant about the interruptions until the Minister has completed her speech in parts. After that, of course, there is every opportunity for questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr President, it is my last one, so I like it a bit too!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u82	I'm trying to help you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr. Chairman. I come to talk about accessibility on the road. I've already indicated that our freedom of movement has increased. At the end of the cabinet period, our road network was expanded by more than 700 kilometres. To make that tangible: that is the distance from The Hague to Berlin. This is about the roadblocks we got. I find it much more interesting that we have speeded up the complex mega-projects. I mentioned them: the large new connections, the A13/A16, the Blankenburg tunnel, the Ring Utrecht and the extended A15. I expect that we will be able to complete all these decisions in this cabinet period so that the successors can get to work on them. The fact is that the international appreciation of our infra is high. Our country is in fourth place of the ranking of the most competitive countries. We've never been so high. Our infrastructure is in the top three. Our port structure is the best in the world. Interestingly, road users appreciate our roads even as the best in the world. It's even nicer if the user thinks so too. That is, of course, a compliment to all those thousands of professionals who spend every day in the wind and at night and at night, sometimes at risk for their own lives, yesterday there was unfortunately another tragic accident, our roads and waterways build and maintain. But I also see it as a firm encouragement to continue on this foot. That is what we are doing, of course, with a view to the future. We have the ambition to have the best infrastructure over the next 50 years but, perhaps even more importantly, also the smartest and most sustainable mobility system. This is essential for a country whose economy is based on good connections. That is why we are also at the forefront of testing self-driving transport on the public road. We take extensive tests with thousands of road users to improve our traffic management. We are on our way to make all bridges, locks and roads energy neutral by 2030. This can only be achieved if there is a solid financial basis. With the extension of the Infrastructure Fund from 2028 to 2030, we have strengthened that base, but more importantly, the Fund will now be renewed annually. This means that the financing of roads, rail, regional transport, waterways and the management and maintenance of the Dutch infrastructure has been ensured for years. The same applies to the Delta Fund, which finances investments in water safety and water management. When I'm abroad, my colleagues always look at this form of planning with jealousy. I am very pleased that we know this system and not the four or five-year plans you see in the rest of the world. It is good that the Chamber is always seriously discussing the long-term with me and the Secretary of State. Thinking about the future is important for making the right choices. Am I completely happy and satisfied? No, because I also see that the economy is attracting, that more people are moving from A to B. It's getting busier on the road. All Members have pointed this out. It is also clear that the loss of travel time will increase by about 4% a year in the years 2017 to 2021. This is also described in the new Mobility Image of the KiM. This will increase congestion by 38% in 2021 compared to 2015, the last closed year. That is, of course, worrying and serious. We must, of course, take a relative view of this. 2008 was the year with the largest number of traffic jams. Because of the investments we have made in infrastructure, which have been useful, the reduction in congestion has ultimately been significant. Despite the 11% increase in traffic, the number of traffic jams decreased by 7% compared to 2008. So there has been relatively less traffic congestion. At the same time, we must bear in mind that this rising trend is again and that we must continue to invest. For anyone who says there is no point in creating extra asphalt, I refer to the calculations of KiM and other parties. This shows that 50% of congestion has been caused by new asphalt and 16% by the economic crisis. That seems important to me to know. We shall therefore see that congestion is increasing. From last year onwards, it is 38%, from most traffic jams in 2008 it is 12%, but it is an increase that makes it clear that it is important to continue to invest in it and to continue to tackle traffic jams. There are currently over 30 road projects. I mentioned a few just now when Mr Madlener was worried because there would be nothing to do for my successors. I will mention some of them. The widening of the road Schiphol-Amsterdam-Almere, the A1/A6/A9, is the largest, but more are coming to achieve these results. The next year the road user will be able to drive on the A2 near Maastricht. The A2 passage will be completed in early 2017. This also applies to the A12 parallel structure Gouweknoop. And so there are many more projects. A lot of people notice the increasing hustle and bustle. Some of it will be lightened, but some of it will be done by projects that will be taken forward in the future. The ANWB has made an inventory: how does the road user experience it? It was not a question of what the bottlenecks were based on the figures, but of the driver's feeling. That is, of course, also important. Most of the bottlenecks identified by the ANWB are on the roads of provinces and municipalities. According to the union, a lot can be done with small measures. I very much agree with that. I also hope that we will be able to help some of this with the Better Benutten programme. But the ANWB has also mentioned a number of national bottlenecks. I shall go into that later, because that is important. Fortunately, those bottlenecks were not unknown to us. With our road programme, we are tackling most of these bottlenecks. We do that in different ways. We are going to broaden the A4 The Hague-South-Leiden. 319 million has been earmarked for this purpose. The A2 Eindhoven-Weert and the A58 Tilburg-Eindhoven are included in the programme SmartwayZ.NL. The MIRT study has been initiated for this purpose. I think there's about 550 million in the program SmartwayZ.NL. At the A1 and the A30 we take specific measures and continue to increase the speed. Measures have already been taken, but new measures will be introduced. In the N35 Zwolle-Almelo there are now four projects: Zwolle-Wijthmen 40 million, with 29 million contribution from the region, Wijthmen-Nijverdal 104 million, with 64 million contribution from the region, the Combiplan Nijverdal, which has just been opened, and Nijverdal-Wierden, where more safe measures are taken for 5 million. That's where we're still making further arrangements. It'll never be enough for all the wishes there are. My Twitter is full of people every day telling them why they need to invest in them and why I don't want to see it. Of course I'd like to see that. I would like to tackle the whole country if I had enough money for that, but we have to make choices every time: where is the biggest problem and where do we invest first? In addition, political choices are sometimes made in this Chamber. Sometimes, therefore, money goes to projects for which there is a lot of support. In any case, it is important that we look forward. We look at the long term, at reducing traffic jams after 2020 and at integrating completely new connections and completely new highways. In doing so, we want to make our entire main road network structurally more robust and less vulnerable. The calls for tenders of the Blankenburg connection and the A13/A16 Rotterdam have started. The decisions about the Ring Utrecht and the passage of the A15 at Arnhem have been taken or are taken quickly. These are complex connections that cross areas where people live and recreate. We always do this carefully, in close consultation with those involved, but the need seems very clear to me with all the forecasts. I wanted to switch to smart mobility. We are making increasing use of new opportunities that technology offers us to improve the flow on the road. In our exploration of the flow of, for example, the A67, a corridor with a lot of freight traffic, we also explicitly include innovative techniques. We see possibilities, for example because there is a lot of freight traffic here, to make many improvements with sensor technology. This autumn we will also start with a so-called Talking Traffic project. Road users are connected to each other via their smartphone and their navigation services. For example, they can be warned in time for filetails and changing speeds. Smart traffic lights can anticipate a group of cycling school children. Let me give you just a few examples. It's getting more focused and more specific. This will also make it easier to solve specific problems. Internationally, the Netherlands has gained a leading position in the field of smart mobility, because everyone previously associated self-driving cars with Silicon Valley, but the Google cars run on chips made in Eindhoven. In this respect, therefore, the Netherlands should not be ashamed. Large European vehicle manufacturers want to test their new models here, as we saw at Schiphol Airport with the self-driving OV bus. I also expect to test the various major brands in the Netherlands in the coming year. Since we enlarged the experimental space, 27 tests have been conducted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u84	I see an interruption by Mrs Van Tongeren, who was not there just a moment ago when I called on the Chamber to be somewhat reluctant to interrupt until the Minister has finished her reasoning. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u85	Thank you. I'm happy with smart mobility and electric transportation. We know about each other, but I just heard the minister say that we're also going to use the smartphone to communicate with each other and see how the flow is going. I thought the smartphone use in the car was also a major risk to road safety. How are we supposed to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u86	It depends entirely on how the drug is used. It does indeed lead to dangerous situations that are dangerous when people are getting into the car. But if your smartphone is in the holder and speaks to you about what the road is or what your next action should be, he will only support you in what you have to do. The smartphone use, combined with smart navigation services, can certainly work well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u87	If your smartphone is in a holder and a small text message appears at the top of it from anyone with something interesting, then you are incredibly distracted when it is in the car at eye level. I appreciate that we are going to smart mobility, but we should do so in such a way that we do not distract the driver any more. As soon as you put the smartphone anywhere, you get top of those fine bars with all your announcements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u88	I agree that we should have as little distraction as possible in the car and also on the bike, for which I have recently made a plea. It would be nice if everyone had a built-in navigation system in the car, but for now that is not the case and people still use navigation via the smartphone. It's important that we discuss with the smartphone industry how to make the smartphone safer at times when you shouldn't be using it. That's kind of complicated. Sometimes there are ideas, for example that he just goes out the moment you go faster than a certain speed. But then, what do you do with the passenger or the person working in the back?There are a few of them who can't do their job in the end? It's just a search. Mrs Van Tongeren rightly points out the dangers, but I meant now that the smartphone can support us. If you log in at home, you can also check whether you are taking the O.V. or the car today. There's a lot to do. We must learn and continue to increase the scope for experimentation. The Experimentation Act, which allows testing with a driver outside the vehicle under safe conditions, has been in internet consultation and is expected to go to the Dutch Parliament next year. We are also, of course, looking at what is happening abroad. Mr Hoogland, for example, referred to the Whim system in Helsinki. Whim is an app that allows passengers to arrange all forms of transport and do so from a single account. The basis is freedom of mobility, without having to own a car or any other means of transport. I think that is a very interesting development. I also often speak with my colleague. We're working on something very similar. That's called MAAS, in good Dutch Mobility as a Service; unfortunately, this term is used. It means mobility as a service. Discussions are currently taking place with some Better Benutten regions to experiment with MAAS. Part of this is to assess whether there are any regulatory barriers. I expect that to be ready by mid-2017. It kind of fits the picture I just sketched. In my view, it also fits in with the idea that Mr Hoogland suggests that we should make it easy for people to travel in different ways by adapting the rules to that, by offering the systems easily and by making funding attractive. I come at a different rate or the mileage tax, which Mr Hoogland has asked for. But he wants to ask me another question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u89	Go ahead, Mr. Hoogland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u90	Whim or MAAS is the question, if anyone is looking for children's names. The Minister says that it is interesting and that it is partly happening in the Better Benutten regions. So what exactly is going to happen? Does that just mean that there will be an offer for people to make a choice through the Better Benutten methodology? Or will there really be a commercial system where people buy mobility and then, depending on what is most attractive, choose what they travel with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u91	We have a separate budget for ITS within Better Benutten. We have deliberately deployed this in the regions in order to be able to experiment. The ITS budget goes, among other things, to the development of apps and that sort of thing. But, of course, it is intended that there will eventually be a national, national roll-out. We have also said to the regions that any system they develop must also be useful in other regions and ultimately throughout the Netherlands. So we are actually helping to speed up the market without distorting competition. We try to encourage alternatives in this way. Again, in mid-2017 I expect we will know what we need to adapt to regulation. In the meantime, we have been able to practice with those systems. I find it very attractive myself. It helps you get out of your own rigid travel pattern. I listened with interest to the debate on a possible mileage tax or any other form of pricing. Mr Hoogland asked me to investigate this. Of course, it is no surprise that this cabinet does not introduce a mileage tax. He said that himself. The previous cabinet, as well as this cabinet, did extensive research on it just before it started. This has not led to introduction. Lack of social and political support, technical complexity and high deployment and operating costs played an important role in this. These are aspects that still need to be taken into account. The introduction of such a system is very complex. Especially if your Chamber says in a majority that such a system should be budget neutral. Some even said that it should reduce the burden on motorists. Then you have to think of simultaneous phasing out of mrb and the bpm. If you want to organise a successful burden-sharing among drivers, it takes years. I think it takes about ten or twelve years to get rid of the bpm in a fair way for everyone who has already paid. So it's not just about the system itself, whether you're capable of inventing an intelligent locker, but also about the whole tax system that's behind it. I think I have an easy budget treatment compared to my tax colleague, because every thing you want to change into the tax system leads to endless discussions in this and the Upper Chamber. Anyway, it's also about the system itself, of course. You must always think about its possibilities. It is important to take European developments into account. It is, of course, very annoying that we work with a vignette in one country and with tolls in another. I know that Commissioner Bulc is working on a road package in which she wants to include recommendations on a European communication system, as she calls it. As far as she is concerned, this communication system should be the basis for the pricing systems that will be introduced in Europe in the future, so that we have lost the borders that we now know. So it can always be considered, but this cabinet is not going to take any specific action on it. It was already known. If a cabinet would like to work on it, I think it would be wise to find out really well in advance. That means that there is a need for some angelic patience. However, your Chamber has adopted the Law on Temporary Toll Blankenburg Connection and ViA15. As you know, this toll is temporary in order to obtain the financing notice for the new connections. In the context of Better Benutten, I use the instrument to avoid driving road users, under strict conditions of course in the Chamber. This is actually a reverse form of pricing policy, in which people are rewarded to stay out of traffic rather than being punished; the root rather than the stick. I would like to move on to the mainports, because that too has been asked for, at least to the mainport discussion. Our economy is about movement. Therefore, the mainports must be properly unlocked. This is an essential condition for growth. I would also like to say this to Mr Smaling and Mrs Mulder, who asked for this in the context of the Rli report. That report actually says that those mainports don't matter so much anymore and that you should actually focus on other things. As far as I am concerned, however, these mainports do matter. We must therefore ensure that they are properly unlocked. Mainports Rotterdam and Schiphol play a crucial role in maintaining that international competitiveness and in ensuring a good locational environment. I was in Iran last week and the first thing they wanted to know was how we do with the port of Rotterdam and if they could have more flights at Schiphol Airport. That is a good guide to the rest of Europe. So these kinds of things are very important elements that we also profile with abroad. But certainly Brainport Eindhoven.That's where the discussion arose.This is of particular importance for the cabinet. We also call the mainports and the brainports in one sentence in the coalition agreement for a reason. Now there has been a lot of discussion about whether the brainport should be called mainport. I have always understood that a mainport is a gathering of logistics connections and that a brainport involves something quite different, namely a much more intelligent approach to the economy. But all the children are equally sweet to me, as far as confusion has arisen. The brainport is included in the trits mainports, brainports and greenports. So it is a misunderstanding that the brainports would be less important. They are of a different nature, but we also take that into account in our approach. Mrs Mulder asked about the motions tabled during the budget debate of my colleague from EZ. I will discuss with him how best we can deal with the motions. I cannot answer for him now, but it does not seem to me that it is so complicated to give an insight into, for example, investments we have made and the wishes that are still there. In fact, I sit at the same table with the region on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mrs Mulder has a question about the so-called mainports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u93	I thank the Minister for her reply. However, can she simply say that she also sees the Brainport Eindhoven as a mainport for the Netherlands? Mainport has a certain sound for the minister, but also has a certain sound for the rest of the Netherlands. It's possible they're a little different. These mainports are so very important for the Netherlands that we give them a separate status. She has given the data hub the mainport status, but she doesn't do that for Brainport Eindhoven. Can she now say quite clearly: I also see Brainport Eindhoven as a mainport for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u94	The data hub does not mean anything to me, but perhaps that is something that Mr Kamp has named as mainport. But what's in a word? Mainport and brainport are in the coalition agreement. I don't think it matters what you call it or what you call it. There is no separate mainport investment regime. From I and M we just look at capacity analyses all over the country and then see where most of the problems are, where most of the traffic jams are, where the tracks are most blocked and where the waterways are most hidden. Then it appears that in some regions the problems are greater than in others. With us, the Eindhoven region is very good at it. We have the Smartrace program and we've actually been the first to go through it with them, even before we do that in the rest of the Netherlands. We take the road and smart mobility into account. There's investment around the airport and the railroad on that side. I had this discussion with Groningen a few years ago. They also wanted to be called mainport, because they were so important in the context of Energy Valley. I said at the time: you are also very important, but it is not the case that with the word mainport suddenly an investment regime is released.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u95	I don't want it to be a bit of a semantic discussion. There's no one waiting for that. It is about recognising a very important region for the country, also in relation to the other main ports. Data management has received a mainport status. That was clearly stated in the opinion and, in my opinion, in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u96	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u97	Can't the Secretary of State Eindhoven give that recognition today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u98	I had just indicated that by saying that the brainport together with the mainport is in our coalition agreement and in the SVIR. The fact that I fully recognise their status is to a large extent reflected in my remark that all my children are equally sweet to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u99	For us it is clear that Eindhoven is "a very important city," so I say to please the chairman. But when is the Minister coming up with the REOS implementation agenda? I asked myself about that once. Eindhoven is right to be very good at that. I think that is what this is about, because then what is going to happen becomes concrete and we come out of this semantic discussion with all the other English terms that I will not repeat here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mr Hoogland emphasizes a very good point. We started with them as the first to draw up a regional economic agenda, the REOS. We're way ahead of ourselves, too. I believe that the implementation agenda will be added in mid-2017. I will at least have that in order for the MIRT note-to-note meeting. For us, it is an important region, both in terms of intellectual development and in terms of products they have there. I myself am the one who is very keen on smart mobility by giving positive support to certain sectors there. I'm responsible for the physical dilation. I too would like to get out of the semantic discussion. It's such a good region. It would be a shame if they had a calimero feeling there. That is not necessary at all. They can just be very proud of themselves. I'm gonna head over to the bike. The use of bicycles is doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u101	I'll come back anyway on the driving and paying for it to use. Not that the Minister wants to add asphalt again because of the increasing traffic jams, but I get the impression that she relies very much on technology. However, last year the Central Planning Bureau carried out a study on the social cost-benefit analysis of payments by use. There are scenarios in which congestion and emissions decrease by 25%. So, apart from the technical problems and the time it takes to cut down the bpm, that's pretty likely. The Minister does a little bit of that in the vein of 'that would not be my route', apart from the fact that she may not be entitled to it herself anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u102	I have referred in particular to the complexity of new technologies. Don't underestimate it. It is often thought: nowadays we can without toll gates, we all build in a locker, we do it via the smartphone and we are done. I've tried to say that there's a lot to that. I have, of course, read the CPB's research on this. They said you can do two things. You can introduce a flat charge, whereby you arrange a fixed amount per kilometer, but that doesn't really work very well and positively. That only makes sense if you first freeze it in such a way that it can be a solution. Of course, we don't want that. Actually, we'd like to solve that before then. Perhaps a combination of a flat charge with a congestion charge is attractive. The CPB shows examples of what effect implementation can have if it is completely stalled. However, that is difficult to implement, as the CPB itself says. In an ideal situation it would work, but it is complex and difficult to implement. Does this mean that the mind must stand still? No, I don't think you should ever stop thinking. Even from a liberal perspective, paying according to usage is a very logical idea. Just, you shouldn't think too lightly that that's the panacea for all the problems. If you do something like that, you should really think about it and try to shape it together with the neighbouring countries. In other words, you can't say that we can do this tomorrow. We looked at this at the beginning of this cabinet period for trucks. That was really nothing but misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u103	You can see the traffic pressure increasing now. This is partly because we have come from the crisis years, but also because of the low fuel price. The risk is that the reflex is still to increase the offer again, especially if the PVV and the VVD repeatedly ask for it. You should also just look at alternatives. If you are going to broaden the roads in the Randstad again and if you invest in the High-frequency Rail Transport Programme at the same time, I do not think that that sounds effective, because then you will make those investments on both fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u104	That's why I'm not just looking at physical infrastructure. You know the same thing about me. I also do Better Benutten and I invest a lot in smart mobility. So I try to look from different angles. The Netherlands has a road network with a lot of turn-offs and few very long continuous roads to create even more difficulties. That makes a pricing system even more complex. So it is not so much a question of unwillingness to look at other forms or variants. I think in life, you should always look at everything that's possible. I'm just trying to tell my successors, whoever they may be, that this shouldn't be considered too simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u105	Mrs Belhaj, on what subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u106	About the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u107	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u108	I would like to ask the Minister a very simple question. This coalition has chosen not to drive the bill now and want to pay it to use, but in a few months there will be elections. It would greatly help the new coalition or the new Chamber if the minister, with all her knowledge and expertise over the past 12 years, responded and showed what the consequences of introduction could be. In that case it does not have to make its own decision, but then it gives others the opportunity to make a decision more quickly. Would she be willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u109	That's an old discussion. There is always a study, also in cooperation with other parties who regularly ask for a price policy. So the data and the insights are there. That is why I have just mentioned a few advantages and disadvantages. In my view, therefore, a subsequent cabinet can see very well what it needs to figure out before it can reach such a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u110	That wasn't my question. My question is whether, with the knowledge that is now available, you want to make that analysis of the consequences, including in the financial sense, for all of us. That's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u111	I can see exactly what the consequences are. The CPB has just looked at this again and several other parties are also looking at it. We have that knowledge ourselves, but I have already indicated that more questions will come to mind. You're gonna cancel the car tax? You're gonna cancel the bpm? So there are political choices behind it. Do you only do it in congestion time, so in the form of a congestion charge? Or are you going to a flat charge? So all that information is available. You know for yourself that it takes a few months after the elections to form a cabinet. That cabinet can look at all of that and, on that basis, can see if it wants to make the choice. You can't say in advance that you're going to enter it; look at the Belgians. You need years. You have to discuss with the European Union whether the system is distorting competition, and you name it. The data is available. This cabinet says: we are not doing it, because we see too many disadvantages; we have said this widely in the cabinet. As far as I am concerned, the following Cabinets are free to study and can also make use of the available data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u112	Mrs Visser, on mobility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u113	I remember a group chairman who offered a previous cabinet, the Balkenende cabinet, a large stack of reports on road pricing and said: 'Here you have the reports; there's just a staple to go through'. This debate will therefore continue in the context of the elections, but I would like to return to the mainport debate. It is not just about the discussion about Eindhoven, because I think we have recognised with each other that Eindhoven is extremely important for our economy, just like Schiphol and Rotterdam. That's for the here and now. But my question is more: how are we going to ensure that our mainports, including Eindhoven and Venlo, and all greenports remain competitive? It's not just about infrastructure. It also has to do with tariffs. It also has to do with competitive advantages in Europe, for example. In fact, my question is: is the Minister prepared to look at the differences with a view to keeping our main ports competitive? Last year we tabled a motion on the inventory of the regulatory pressure at Schiphol: is it higher in the Netherlands than in Europe? Is the Minister prepared to do the same for the mainports, including Eindhoven and the Rotterdam port, with a view to keeping them competitive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u114	We do that for mainports, brainports and greenports. It is important that we keep an eye on what we need to do, and more than just dilation. For example, in December I speak with the Port of Rotterdam again. Two years ago, we drew up a maritime agenda to reflect what you should all think about, not only in terms of accessibility, but also in terms of regulation, environmental issues and international contacts. What do we all need to stay the first? I do that with that very big sector, but I'm also going to be sitting at the table specifically with the Port Authority shortly to see if we're still in the right place. We do the same with the greenports, at least my colleague from EZ does. In specific areas, he looks at whether we remain ahead of competition in order to ensure that companies in these areas continue to be at the forefront worldwide. In other words, we're already doing it. It doesn't come in a single big note that contains all mainports, brainports and greenports. We're doing that very specifically in the discussions we're having. If I am in an MIRT meeting, then also EZ and Home Affairs are included, so that we can immediately see what is still needed in terms of economic development, in terms of the contribution of real estate, buildings or other things. So we're trying to have that integral look. In my view, there is now a motion on Eindhoven and its surroundings asking for the brainport, mainport or whatever you want to call it to show what is needed to further stimulate that region.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u115	The Minister indicated that we should not play a word game about Eindhoven. I couldn't agree more. We have often had a discussion here about the supervision and inspection costs of the Dutch Food and War Authority for precisely Schiphol and the port of Rotterdam. Somehow, I don't know what's causing that. The business community says that we are really much higher and the procedures take longer. This dossier is also in the hands of several departments. It is precisely because of competitiveness that I ask the Minister to take a very specific look at this. If the Minister has the infrastructure completely in order but then the inspection in every possible way, in the words of the business community, counters instead of thinking about it, then nothing has been won in terms of competitiveness. That is why I call once again for this to be looked at again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u116	I do not think the inspections in the Netherlands are counterproductive. I do believe that improvements are possible, including in the financial field, so as regards tariffs. I will look specifically at the latter and look at my own area, because I cannot see it from all ministries. In the coalition agreement and at all in the government's policy, the starting point is that tariffs should be cost-effective. So you can't ask more than you put in, but you shouldn't ask less. At the moment, that is the case. In some policy areas, rates are higher than necessary for the costs incurred, and in other policy areas they are many times lower. All this has to do with political discussions that have taken place in the past: in certain sectors, tariffs were not allowed to rise. In sectors not covered by this discussion, rates then increased. I would very much like to straighten that out. I can see, however, that this will take a longer period of time and that this will require a political discussion with the Chamber once again. If you deviate from that principle, then you must do so consciously, then you must be able to show that you deliberately subsidise it as a Empire. This insight is therefore important. The first point, therefore, is the redesign of the system. A letter has been sent to the Chamber on the basis of which it is based. Later we will talk about what that means for the different sectors. The second point is whether tariffs are too high in relation to what is happening abroad, and whether certain costs are being charged abroad at all, or whether they are being processed elsewhere. That is also an important question. We always try to keep an eye on this with benchmarks. I replied to that too. For example, I have made it clear to the ports where I think it is fair and unfair. It is important to keep a constant eye on this and therefore to make it part of the broad discussion on our strong economic sectors. Then it is not just a question of how to keep them accessible, but also of whether our rules are not too restrictive, whether we are doing enough to stimulate, whether we are doing enough about education, which is often behind it and under it, and what about rates, taxes and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u117	We had, of course, hoped that the Minister here today would make further statements on the motions, but I understand that she would like to discuss them with her colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs. We have a debate on business with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs at the beginning of December. You do business in the brainport, and also in the connection between the mainports in the Netherlands. Can the Minister assure us today that at least before the AO met her colleague on 7 December and explained the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u118	I don't think that's a problem. I looked at it and didn't see a lot of problems in it myself. So I can just give him what we can do, but it's also going wider. The contribution of OCW is also requested. I also read some articles in the papers. In my view, part of the call was for more investment in education and culture in that region. I therefore believe that it is important for Mrs Mulder herself to ensure that information is provided from other angles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u119	But the question was whether you could do that before 7 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u120	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u121	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u122	I welcome this commitment, because then we can simply talk about it in the debate on 7 December. Of course it goes wider, but it is important that it is seen as a mainport and that we can go forward with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u123	We're going to talk about the bike now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u124	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The use of bicycles is doing well. The number of cycle kilometres has grown by 9% in ten years. That's a nice development. Mr Smaling asked what was achieved for the bike and he set Brabant as an example. Brabant is indeed a good example of a province that is at the forefront both with bicycle stimulation and with good infrastructure for the bike. In recent years, I have invested, together with the local authorities, in fast regional cycling routes that make cycling more attractive for commuting. There are now 25 such routes, with a total length of 450 kilometers. This is a doubling compared to 2013. I think that has been a very rapid development. The Beter Benutten programme also invests in cycling measures, both in infrastructure measures and in bicycle stimulation. There, the Empire and the region jointly invest 137 million. More than 100 cycling measures are also included in the follow-up programme of Beter Benutten. A good example of the success of the bike is also the growth of bicycle use to the station. The Secretary of State has just sent a letter on this, in which I believe there is a good message, namely that she is also releasing extra money for this. I'm sure she'll say something about that. If not, I have now said that it is a nice and good thing that there will be more money for bike parking. From the bike to my own service car is a small step. Mr Hoogland has asked me why I and M do not already drive a partially electric fleet. That is a nice question, because the Ministry is actually much more progressive than Mr Hoogland might think. I take the sustainability of the fleet of I and M very seriously. At the Ministry and at Rijkswaterstaat 30 electric and 55 semi-electric cars are currently driving around, including my own hybrid service car, with which I drive completely emission-free in urban areas. I'm not gonna tell you which one we all have, I even know about all of them by brand, but I think it's important to know that in the coming years around 20% of the vehicles to be replaced will be completely electric. That amounts to about 100 electric vehicles per year. We also encourage zero-emission transport with hydrogen. We are also investigating the abolition of the use of diesel vehicles. Mr Hoogland asks if I could use a self-driving service car. This is in the context of his abbreviation zedda (self-driving electric car). Of course that would be quite nice, but we have a lot of electric cars and also many parts cars in our fleet. We don't have the self-driving car yet. At the moment it is not really on the agenda, but of course we are keeping a close eye on the market. I think there are Tesla's, so we already know some kind of semi-self-driving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u125	I have a question about both cubes. My first question is about the bike. On bicycle parking I will come back later, but to what extent can the Minister further facilitate cycling becoming a serious and attractive alternative on short distances? The second question concerns the fleet of I and M. The replacement rate is 20% electric. I can't judge whether that's good or bad. So why not 20% and why not 50% or 40%? Can the Minister back that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u126	I should feel that way, because I don't have the underlying argument. The reason why we have a hybrid and not a fully electric car is that we sometimes have to drive very long distances. The range is simply not yet such that you can do it completely electrically. In our file you could use completely electric cars for small distances, for example in urban areas. For example, for road inspections, you will need other cars for the time being, depending on the developments. I'll find out exactly what's going on with that percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u127	Is that something for the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u128	Yes, I am fine, as far as Mr Hoogland is not satisfied with the answer I have given. Mr Hoogland also asked about bicycle stimulation. I'm sure I can see a lot of possibilities. I just mentioned smart mobility and ITS. Apps can make things easier. For example, you can make sure that your bike is already ready when you get off the train, so you don't have to take care of it all. Also in Beter Benutten there are promotional programs for the bike. That's all going on. So we don't say, "Well, we did a great job, and now it's done." I think that the bike as an individual means of transport is very attractive to a lot of people. I'm getting to road safety. Especially in view of the increasing traffic on the road, road safety remains a top priority. The SP called it first, but also a number of other organisations call on us to come up with a delta plan. The CDA is also asking for this. I started preparing a new Strategic Road Safety Plan. That is for the future, because at the moment the eighteen-point plan, which I discussed with the Chamber last year, is being worked out and implemented. I think it's okay if every time you see new things you want to deal with, you keep constantly renewing. Hence there will also be a new Strategic Road Safety Plan. This is, of course, drawn up with all parties who feel involved in road safety. We want to do that carefully, and it takes time. I expect that plan to be there in 2018. The members are thinking, "What's taking so long?" Let me give you an example. If you're going to do the registration, which we're going to talk about even further, and then you want to do a field-by-area risk analysis on that basis, after which you want to shape your specific focus points again, you're going to have some time before you have a new strategic plan. This is without prejudice to what is now simply being done. In the meantime, I'm not sitting still, not even when it comes to new developments. For example, I am going to inform the Chamber in the coming month about how I want to handle the fitting on the bike, as I also promised the Chamber. We also continue to work on the risk-driven approach and on bicycle safety. I have made 30 million extra available to extend the More Safe Programme to improve the infrastructure on the highways. At the end of this year, the Chamber will also be informed about the number of serious road injuries in 2015. In that letter, I will make a specific reference to the progress made. This is, moreover, the last year in which this information is distributed in a fragmented manner, since the Court has indicated that it will not first want to receive information on the deaths, then the information on the injuries and only six months later the analyses. We will try to deliver everything at once at the end of the year next year. I think that will also lead to a better discussion. Since there are always questions about it, I think it is the most important thing for the AO that we will have in December on road safety, to make an overview of what we have all done and what the result is, what we are all doing now with our current plan and what we are going to do in the new period. Distraction is, of course, a very important theme. This seems to be an increasing problem for both drivers and cyclists. It is not yet possible to establish the exact relationship with accidents. Unfortunately, the Alliance of Insurers cannot indicate that either. Mrs Belhaj and Mrs Visser asked. I am now trying very hard to use broad campaigns, which discourage the use of the smartphone in traffic, such as the campaign On the road I am offline and the campaigns aimed at young cyclists. The enforcement and handling of traffic cabins are, of course, also important elements of road safety. Mrs Visser wants to increase the chances of getting caught with the deployment of police teams. As members know, the authority over the deployment of the police base teams has also been decentralised. It is up to the triangle to determine the police's commitment to road safety, but I would like to emphasise to my colleague from V and J that the Chamber attaches great importance to this, as I say to Mrs Visser. The same applies to the state of play of the progressive system of fines, to which Mr Hoogland asked. Various investigations are currently being carried out with the Ministry of V and J on the progressive system of fines. As soon as the results are known, the Chamber will be informed as soon as possible by my colleague. I'll tell him they've been asked about it again with interest these days. As we know, most traffic victims fall on the provincial and municipal roads. We're looking into that, too. Mrs Visser asked for that. Road safety is fully taken into account in the procurement of infrastructure projects. For provincial and municipal roads, the CROW has prepared a large number of manuals, e.g. for the design of roundabouts. Municipalities and provinces are, of course, entitled to know for themselves how they apply them, but I know that they are at least applying them in their tenders. In our policy we no longer only look at the accessibility of specific routes on the main road network, but also the "door to door" accessibility is increasingly central. We also look at the links between the main road network, the underlying road network and safety during the MIRT consultations. Mrs Belhaj asks for a final registration of road accidents. A motion has also been tabled on this subject. I think that is very important. We want a good picture of that. We really want to know if it's victims from a traffic accident or something else. You can see it in the numbers, too. If someone on the side of the road has a heart attack, it's very bad, but technically they're not a traffic victim. The other way around, too. Sometimes someone dies in a hospital after a fracture caused by a bicycle accident. It can be found in older people. Sometimes someone gets an infection after an accident. In short, sometimes it's just very complex to see exactly what causes death. We do want to improve our understanding of this, so that we can further improve our approach. We want to get into the depths. We look at what we can find to find out if there is a relationship with, for example, smartphone use or anything else in the event of serious accidents. I do targeted in-depth research into specific groups of accidents, such as bicycle accidents. Next year, the data will be available. I therefore hope that there is more clarity about smartphone use in relation to the accident. Mrs Belhaj also asked if I am prepared to investigate effective behavioural influence measures. She knows I've been running campaigns for years. Think about the Bob campaign. I want to continue to do so in the coming years, together with provinces, municipalities, police, OM, VVN, ANWB and companies from the alcohol and telecom industries. For example, we have just started to influence young people. We do this together with the foundation of Michael Kulkens, the father of a boy who died on a bike because of smartphone usage. We support the resources we develop in advance. We test them completely and evaluate them afterwards. Our campaigns score very well on the target audience's reach, the transmission of the message, the change in attitude and the extent to which one indicates the desired behavior. In 2013, a report was prepared with an inventory of measures that subconsciously influence traffic-safe behaviour. That concludes the road safety block. I see that there is an interest in responding to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u129	Yes, a traffic jam has been created at the questionbaak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u130	We tabled that motion and the entire Chamber backed it. I understand that the Minister gives a list of the things she is doing, but the question that has been asked to her is exactly what her plan is, in addition to everything she has already done. What is the plan for possible police deployment, the role of insurers and hospitals? My question is, in fact, whether the Minister would like to explain her ideas on how to do that in a letter to the Chamber before we talk about it again in mid-December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u131	I didn't say I'd list what I'm doing again. I have indicated that we are carrying out in-depth studies on the motion and that we are looking specifically at the questions raised by the Chamber, for example on the role of using smartphones. That's my lead. I do this with my partners, so I'm also dependent on police, hospitals, and so on. During the general consultation, the Chamber heard the Minister of V and J say that he will ensure that police registration is improved. We have contacts with the hospitals and they also indicate that they want to improve this. It's not that nothing happens, no, it's being intensively worked on. It's complex. That's what I've just been trying to sketch. It is not always clear what someone died of, but we ourselves also need this data. I'm working on this. I will see if I can indicate in the general consultation letter what is happening in this area at the moment. I shall deal with the actions taken in response to the motion, provided that this has not happened before. I don't know by heart, so I'll take a look at that first. We are certainly not sitting still; we are working hard and intensively on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u132	I did not suggest that the Minister should just write down what she has done, because a lot is happening. I also understand that the Minister says she's doing in-depth investigations. Depth studies, however, make little sense if you do not have all the right data to establish the right causal link between what happened and what type of accident results from it. My question to the Minister is simple. Does she want to emphasise the things she now describes in a letter and give some sort of planning? If the Minister says that she is in contact with the hospitals and the police, I believe that, but it is my job to make sure that this is done in black and white so that I can follow the steps that have been taken afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u133	I have already said that I am prepared to set out what we are doing and what we are doing for the general discussion. As far as you can speak of planning, because I think this calls for a continuous improvement, I will put in when I expect the systems to be able to handle that good registration. Again, if there's an accident and someone's completely in the wrinkles, then the police will be the first to turn on the fire department, ambulance, and I'll know what to do before she checks if the person in question was still on his smartphone for the last few seconds. That is where the problem lies: recording is sometimes complex because the situation requires a different action. Once again, we are trying to establish this protocol as well as possible in advance so that we remember when something is being handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u134	For the sake of clarity, that general consultation was held on 15 December. So the Chamber will receive the promised information before then. I have the trouble of recording such data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u135	I do not find that bothersome at all; thank you for that. I will come back to road safety, enforcement and the chance of getting caught. We can still start so many campaigns, but if they are not combined with the chance of getting caught if you do it wrong, that bar doesn't make much sense. We know that from research. The success of the Bob campaign was the result of the combination with enforcement. If we now see that the number of standing postures by the police has been drastically reduced, if we see that Minister Van der Steur or the police intends to stop the detectives, known from the television programme Blik op de weg, from 1 January, how can we increase the chances of getting caught? If we do not do that, because we will stop, how can we promote road safety, because the number of road deaths and serious injuries has been rising again for a long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u136	You yourself just mentioned the date of the AO on road safety. Mr Van der Steur will be there as well. Mr Van Helvert's question relates entirely to my colleague's portfolio. So I don't think it's wise to be guessing here about the chance of getting caught. I would ask Mr Van Helvert to pass that question on to the debate. In its entirety, I feel responsible for reversing the problem of road safety. I do that by visualizing what we can do on all fronts. At what locations? What's it in? Which target groups? This is known to shift. It used to be the people on the roads, nowadays it is mostly the elderly on the bike. It's a moving target. I think that I should always move along with that moving goal, in the measures that are there. That is why we try every time with all the experts in this area to make the best possible plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u137	I really want a more active attitude from the Minister. It has set a target for the number of road deaths and injuries. She's the road safety minister. Not only in replying to my question, but also in replying to Mr Hoogland's question on progressive fines and other matters, I almost see the Minister replying and reading in passing: oh yes, I will tell Mr Van der Steur that it has been asked with interest. Can the Minister take an active stance in the cabinet and say: 'Dear Ard..' Let's deal with it personally.... we want police on the road that takes traffic hufters. Can the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u138	Then Mr Van Helvert did not listen carefully to my speech. Not only have I said that my colleague is talking about it, I have said that I will make it very clear to him, because I know that the Chamber also thinks that it is all nice and nice, but that we are a cabinet as a whole. I know he's on it. I also know he feels the hot breath of this committee. When we're done in time, I'll see him again tonight. Then this will be dealt with again and I will pass this on. I was just saying that I feel responsible for everything that has to do with road safety. However, sometimes specific questions are asked, which can be better asked if the Minister himself is present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u139	The Minister will pass it on. That's fine. But the minister is more than a mailman. Does the Minister agree that the Minister of Justice should retain those police cars? Why do I think it's important that the Minister thinks this is important? Because she's responsible for road safety. If she just says, "Dear Ard, the Chamber thinks so, so do something," that's different from when she says that as a minister of road safety, she thinks that the policemen should be able to maintain and that they should not be removed. Does the Minister agree with this, or does she just pass it on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u140	For the third time now, I think I am going to say that I feel completely responsible and that I will not just pass it on to my colleague. I will appeal to him as well. This will not apply to all points. I don't think there should be cops all the time and everywhere. You've got to be very focused on this. You need to use a risk-based approach to this. That if you're gonna set rules, you're gonna have to make sure they're enforced, and I'm ready to go. Otherwise, nobody has to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u141	When we look at road safety in our country and the international situation, we see that the Netherlands is doing just fine. That's what I wanted to say. That does not mean, of course, that it is an insignificant subject. We must continue to work for road safety. So does the Minister. I appreciate that very much. However, I have also read the letter from the insurers. They write that there are more than 6% more claims and that the number of road deaths has increased from 570 to 621. The Minister does a lot of things. She just named all of this, too. It'll come back to the AO as well. Are we doing the right thing, though? Are we gonna do enough when we see that there are more accidents and road deaths after all? What else do we have to do or do more than we do now, to reverse that trend?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u142	I'd rather we were at zero instead of the 500 we're targeting. I think that new technologies are going to help us in part, such as cars that stop when they see something unexpected moving on the road and you name it. At the same time, we're seeing a shift. It used to be mostly in unsafe situations on the road, drunk driving or speeding, but now you see that more and more elderly people fall over on the bike, break something and die as a result. These cases are also included in those figures. The question is, of course, what do you want? Are you saying that I wouldn't want to do that anymore and want them to stop using the bike or just use a particular type of bike? Or do you say the health aspects are also important? It therefore continues to look for what is sensible to do, the target group for which it is to be targeted and the means to be used. Again, our team is working to tackle this along all paths and sides, together with the municipalities and provinces and through behavioural influence, physical adjustments and regulation. We are thinking about more stable bicycles with sensor technology to keep it possible for the target group to cycle. It's complicated. I see the figure rising again across Europe, except in those countries where it was so bad that the low-hanging fruit could be picked. We're all looking for what's wise to do to bring the figure down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u143	I, too, see a shift towards vulnerable target groups, towards children and the elderly. It is good that the Minister pays attention to this. In their letter, the insurers ask for a delta plan, an action plan. That means, for me, that we are carrying out all the initiatives together, so together with provinces, municipalities, insurers, hospitals and so on, we are going to see how we can further improve road safety in our country. Does the Minister recognise the signal from insurers that too much is being worked alongside each other? Shouldn't we be working together more to see where the problems are?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u144	I don't think the insurance companies said that there's too much working side by side. Of course, they also have an interest in a delta plan because it can affect their damage. What is important is what I have already answered to Mr Smaling's question: we are working on a strategic policy plan to shape it with all parties, including insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u145	The Minister is sending a letter for AO Road Safety. Could it not be given the character of an action plan, in a letter carried by all the other parties involved? For example, we know where we are working with each other as far as the Christian Union is concerned, the number of victims is halved in 2027 and there is a joint commitment to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u146	I cannot do that before 15 December, because the time to come up with an action plan with all these target groups is very short. As I said, we have implemented a very comprehensive road safety plan in the past period. I shall say a few words about this in the letter that comes before 15 December. We are now in the process of implementing a new road safety plan, together with a lot of parties. I will say something about that too. In addition, we are preparing a new strategic road safety plan for 2018, about which I also said something. It seems to me that this should be the delta plan, the strategic plan or whatever you want to call it, which Mrs Dik-Faber is referring to. But I can't do that in four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u147	We're going for lunch as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u148	Yeah, I need the last piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u149	One moment. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna let the Secretary of State speak before lunch. I therefore appeal to the spokesmen to intervene briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u150	Road safety is a subject that I think is very important to us all. I would like to ask the Minister a number of questions about this, because I think she is moving on to another block. In our contribution, we have advocated common sense, proper road design, increased chances of getting caught and more severe penalties. I didn't hear the Minister reply to that. She's named the roadblock. She says she has the CROW guidelines for that. The government has set itself a standard for the design of the road and safety standards. The provinces have done the same. The municipalities haven't yet. Is the Minister prepared to work out such standards with the ANWB, Building Netherlands, provinces and municipalities and not just to include them in a directive but also to implement them? I would also like to comment on the possibility of taking action and more stringent sanctions. I understand that this needs to be done together with the Minister of Security and Justice. But it's essential to make sure we can deal with the traffic hoods. Can the Minister say anything about this, possibly in the letter that comes before 15 December?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u151	I've got both questions on my mind just now. I have specifically said that Mrs Visser wants to increase the chances of being deployed by police teams, that the deployment of the basic police teams is decentralised and that the triangle ultimately determines the stakes, but that I will bring this to the attention of my colleague from V and J. I will ask him if it is possible to say anything about it before the 15th and, if that is not possible, to indicate at least when he can say anything about it. With regard to the CROW guidelines and the commitment of the municipalities, I have indicated that in our policy we are not only looking at accessibility on the main road network and safety, but also at door-to-door policy and that, in discussions with the provinces and municipalities, the road managers, we are clearly pointing out to them what they could do and improve in terms of road safety. Through the development of the CROW standards, e.g. for roundabouts and the like, we also draw up manuals. They have a choice whether or not to do it. They are not free to do so, but we are bringing it to their attention. I ask mayors, for example, to feel responsible for this issue, so that not only I knock but they themselves attract it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u152	I understand that, but the Minister has set indicators for the highways that all highways must meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u153	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u154	Provinces have done the same and set indicators for all roads. I know the Minister isn't about it, but she can arrange it. She speaks all the congregations. It can indicate that we have adopted directives and that it is essential to ensure that road safety is also ensured on municipal roads, precisely in order to improve road safety. It can examine with municipalities whether we can achieve some sort of standard and aim in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u155	I understand what Mrs Visser means, a sort of Europ code for municipalities. I'm gonna bring this up with the VNG once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u156	My question fits in well with this. In 2015, a line was drawn by the 300 million available to municipalities for road safety. Many municipalities that used this money to take the right measures no longer have that. They have had to cut a lot in recent years. If the Minister does contact the VNG, would she like to ask to what extent the municipalities have been able to make investments in the last year and to what extent they believe that road safety should be considered as well as safety in a generic sense? Nor do we say to municipalities that they should take action against it themselves. It is about seeing road safety as a part of safety, for which we also have a public responsibility here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u157	I wouldn't know where the 300 million came from, but it could be that municipalities, which also have to cut back, have done some of it on the road. We have always talked intensively with the municipalities. We're also in road managers' transfers together. Of course, I can ask if they think that the Empire should pay for its municipal roads from now on. I think I already know the answer in advance. They will, of course, say yes to that. I don't think so myself. I believe that for safety the Empire is responsible for the national roads, the provinces for the provincial roads and the municipality for the municipal roads. It is also part of municipal autonomy that they determine where they build roads and how they build them. However, there are rules governing the construction of roads, which also aim at safety, in the procurement procedure. Mrs Visser referred to this. Whether municipalities do extra things is really up to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u158	We're a bit of a repeat. Can you avoid that, Mrs. Belhaj?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u159	Sure, I'm a creative person. My question is not whether the Minister wants to ask if they have more money with their responsibility. My question is whether they want to respond to the 300 million that came from the Ministry to municipalities, to what extent they miss it, and to what extent they can use, in terms of enforcement, police deployment, but also the use of flashlights and such help from the Empire, regardless of whether the Chamber ultimately thinks so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u160	Once again, I do not recognise that we have cut back on the 300 million road safety budget that went towards the municipalities. I'm willing to figure this out for the second term, but it doesn't mean anything to me. I want to go to the last heading: space and the Environment Act, including the SVIR and the coastal pact. That can be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u161	Although it's your opus magnum!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u162	Yes, Mr President, it is beautiful, but there is little asking for things that are going well. Important in spatial planning is that we make our country more beautiful: more resilient to the water and more attractive to live and enterprise. I think we should be proud of what we have achieved. I am thinking of the Spatial Adaptation Delta Programme, which will also make our other urban areas more climate-proof. I am also thinking of Space for the River, which will be more or less closed this year after we have carried out incredibly many projects around our large rivers to make it safer for people. Millions of people are now better protected from the water, but have also been given a more attractive environment. I am delighted that I am also involved in the delivery at the end, after I have been able to be the Secretary of State at the start of this process. You don't go through much of that as a minister. At the start you were often welcomed with the pitchfork, because there was a lot of aversion against it. At the end I was hugged a lot by residents, who said that it had eventually become very beautiful. I am also proud of the great demand from abroad for our knowledge and expertise about the water. We invest about 1 billion a year in making our country waterproof. At the same time, we earn about 8 billion abroad with our water expertise. We can be very happy about that. I go ten times a year on an economic water mission. I've just been to Iran. Soon I will go to Indonesia with the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State and Minister Ploumen. Especially with that country, there has been a very close cooperation in the field of water. Next to the water, the space includes even more. In the Environmental Act, it is crucial that we include all parties involved in the design of our space from different disciplines and interests. All MPs agree that this coherence, this stakeholder approach, is very good. It is also a question of giving local authorities sufficient space and strength to work on the quality of the environment. The helm really has to change in the Netherlands. The responsibility for that quality must really be felt, also locally. It is then good to see that in the evaluation of the SVIR it is found that the SVIR has made that effort and that the rudder has actually moved. Mr. Smaling asked for this. The SVIR has taken a clear position on the tasks of the government in the areas of infrastructure and space. Local authorities have also been given the freedom to implement policies. That has not yet been done in all areas. The SVIR is of course not that long and has to be filled in even further in some respects, but you can see that the tasks that have been unleashed by the Empire have been taken up. The evaluation also makes comments which have been translated into concrete recommendations for a future national environment vision. Perhaps that is even more interesting than the SVIR, because there will be a new tool to look ahead to how we can connect in an inspiring way with a common vision of tasks and prioritisation. Work is currently under way on this national environmental vision, which takes into account the recommendations. Mr Smaling mentioned a number of subjects that he wondered whether they would come back in such an environment view. Those are indeed subjects that we will see again. As far as the change in the system of environmental law is concerned, I am looking back at a successful year anyway. I'm deliberately saying "system change." A legal system allows for changes and ambitions, but in the end it also includes a different way of working and a different administrative culture. It remains incredibly important that what we are all trying to achieve with the law, ultimately also takes shape in our behaviour, the behaviour of the provinces and municipalities and the behaviour of the stakeholders who are about to deal with the law. These are crucial factors for what we want to achieve with the system. It's from a "no, unless" to a "yes, if" gone from hiding behind rules to guts to making decisions. I will not see the introduction of this, but I hope that the outside world will see that it will work out well in the end. On 22 March, the First Chamber adopted the Environment Act, a unique moment because for the first time, our country will have an integral law for the whole environment. 26 laws have been reduced to 1. Another important step was taken on 1 July. On that day, four draft decisions were presented to the Chamber by the Environment Act. Those draft decisions will replace 60 existing AMvBs. We are going to talk about this, but I am already saying that I am proud of the whole process. I am also proud of the Chamber, because it is very difficult to lift so many laws instead of making them. The latter tends to be more likely in the Chamber. It is also difficult to replace so many AMvBs with four. The cabinet also works hard on the supplement laws soil, sound, nature and land ownership. These will be submitted to the Chamber partly next year and partly in early 2018. At the beginning of 2018, the Chamber will also receive the proposal for the introduction law, giving the Chamber a final moment to look at the overall picture at the end. The National Environmental Vision (NOVI) is also introduced with this national Environmental Law. It is the long-term vision of the habitat that replaces national sectoral visions and policy plans in the habitat, at least the SVIR, the Environmental Policy Plan and relevant parts of the Nature Vision. At the beginning of 2017 I come up with the first part of the Environmental Vision, which will describe the main issues. Afterwards, we will work that out again with the stakeholders into a beautifully coherent story. All the issues mentioned by Mr Smaling come back to this Novi. The vision describes the quality of the physical environment, the natural environment with large waters, natural landscapes, agricultural cultural landscapes, the built environment with cities, villages and industrial sites, water, soil, air and natural capital. This means that coastal areas, peat meadows, agriculture, nature and shrinking regions are also part of it. Above all, we will identify the strategic challenges and give them a vision. Think, among other things, of securing the energy transition. You can talk about an energy transition, but you also need space for that. How are you going to shape that next? I will work out this task and the necessary approach. Finally, the Coast Pact, to which Mr Bisschop and Mr Houwers asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u163	Mr Smaling has a brief question on the foregoing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u164	I welcome what the Minister says, but I ask her about her fascination with "decentral, unless." I am aware of the Minister's substantive policy in this area as follows. The Empire must not impose too much. Responsibility shall be laid down as low as possible. In such a busy country with so many functions in the physical environment, this coherence is of course crucial. BrabantStad may work as a network, but if Eindhoven develops the station area, Tilburg, Breda and Den Bosch want that too. I am thinking of outlet centres between Amsterdam and Haarlem and in South Holland. At some point, you're gonna have to limit yourself to that. It can't be that everything can be developed. The minister's gonna talk about that Coast Pact. Municipalities along the North Sea coast all have different plans. Petten has a very different idea about this than Ouddorp or Cadzand, but perhaps not. You have to lay down national rules on how you want the country to be broadly organized. I never hear the Minister about that. Does she have that insight now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u165	I've always had that insight. In the SVIR we see what we generally regard as public interest at national level. I am thinking of protecting our country from the water. Water is a national matter. I'm thinking of the energy networks. Indeed, you do not have to decide where the 380 kV masts or the windmills will or will not be located. We have defined our national heritage in that. We have defined the roads, the waterways and the railways in them. We have defined certain National Landscapes in them. Some things really need to be done at national level, but some things need to be laid down at provincial or decentralised, local level. That's where the application is made. That's where the permit is granted. There, people in their daily activities are confronted with decisions. That has been a very careful consideration. Of course, you can always discuss with each other what needs to be done from provincial level to national level, from local to provincial level or perhaps the other way around, so less in the Empire. That's a continuous discussion. I was just about to bring up the Coast Pact. The applications are in principle made at the municipalities, but you would like to have an image of the areas that you really think are protective. "The coast" is then very broadly defined. The coast we have ever talked about actually only covers from the beach with the dunes, which is protected, but in the people's experience the coast is much wider and larger and lies further back. In that discussion about the wide coast, you have to define what you really think is safe, where you cannot build and where you can and should be able to. The provinces have a role in the field of spatial planning. They're recording this. Now that this discussion has emerged within the framework of the Coastal Pact, the provinces have again fulfilled that role. They are now in the process of arranging the zoning properly. We, as the Empire, have taken the lead in bringing the parties back together after the fuss. So there's a moment when you're wondering if you're keeping a good enough picture. We didn't have a good enough picture of the coast, but in the landscapes we had this discussion very extensively in advance. We will undoubtedly have this discussion again by the time the environmental vision comes. Some people will think that it should be established at national level, while others will think that the provinces can do just fine. So this will come back again, but "decentralised, unless" does not mean that we do nothing at a rich level and everything at lower levels. On the contrary, we make very clear what to do nationally, provincially and locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u166	Then how does the Minister look back on her own period? It has made a very good instrument law, but policy-wise it was always its line that it did not want to impose too much. The Minister also referred the national buffer zones and the National Landscapes to the trash can. Look how beautiful the separation between The Hague and Wassenaar and Voorschoten is! Look how some parts around Amsterdam, which are directly adjacent to the city, have remained beautifully green! This is the result of past spatial planning choices which unfortunately cannot be made anymore. That was the Minister's policy, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u167	Mr Smaling's conclusion is that that choice is no longer available, but I do not agree with him. We invested it in the provinces. Take for example the Green Heart: the Empire was about it, three provinces were about it and the individual municipalities that lie there were about it. That didn't work. These three provinces have now made a wonderful plan to capture the protection of the Green Heart. So the question is who should do it. Sometimes that is the Empire, because the interests are cross-border or cross-regional. Sometimes it is also the province, and sometimes it is the municipality. That's what we've been looking at. If something doesn't go well for once, you can always discuss with each other whether it should take place at a different level, which is wise and when you get too much individual consideration space. But I have the feeling that we have now divided it well; of course I have also submitted the SVIR myself. In the view of the environment, a number of points will return to our experiences, such as with a Coast Pact. Some things we'll invest a little more firmly and some things we've already invested, we'll fill in better. But I don't think it hasn't been looked back. There was definitely a vision behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u168	As part of the response on the Coastal Pact, can the text of the Coastal Pact also come to the Chamber? By whom and by what date should the Coast Pact be signed? And why, according to the pieces we find on Facebook, will Zeeland have until 2019 the time for such a vision while North and South Holland only get until 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u169	I was just about to start answering about the Coast Pact. I will take Mrs Van Tongeren's questions straight away. I have informed the Chamber in broad terms about a provisional Coastal Pact because only the representatives, the natural monuments, the municipalities and the provinces that were represented there, the Empire and a number of other parties have made agreements at administrative level. But they had to go to their stragglers. Since this is such a sensitive subject, I wanted to inform the Chamber that this provisional Coastal Pact is now going to the grassroots and that it has not yet been established. In the meantime, parties in those grassroots groups have already indicated that they still want to change things. In that respect, I am still in the negotiating process. It would have been the best thing if they had all said "it's all right," because then you can get to work with it. At least I already know from two parties that they want to change things, not in essence, but in the description. It depends a little on how much adjustment needs to be made and how much negotiation needs to take place when we come with it, so I can't say that yet. The provinces have indicated that they are willing to establish a zoning for where they do not want to build. I think you should be very pleased with that. Zuid-Holland and Noord-Holland were already working on this from their responsibility for spatial planning. They are able to record that completely in 2018. Zeeland has started this and therefore needs more time. Several of the parties present have said that they agree that one has more time than the other to shape it. In the end, it is not about today or tomorrow, but about the longer term. For existing plans, ideas and buildings nothing changes. It's really about the situation from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u170	If I understand correctly, we do not know when and by whom which text will be signed, because the Minister is still in a negotiating process. Wouldn't it be self-evident, then, to make it in the place just now? Everything that's on those dunes and on the beach behind it, you can't get away. We do not know what the text is, when it is signed and by whom. It would therefore be very logical to introduce a moratorium on the construction of the coast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u171	As far as my own responsibility is concerned, so have I. I told the Chamber I wouldn't do the Barro now. In the Barro more space was created, not to build the place up as it was sometimes presented, but to make sensible choices. I sit around the table with others who have their own responsibilities and their own decision-making bodies to make a joint story of it. I hope that will lead to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. It is not the case that no texts are yet available. What they present to their supporters looks very attractive, but of course it still needs to be sharpened on words or intents. It would be very nice if we could all sign it so that not only I say I will not do it for the time being, but also the others can say so. The text states that the old plans will be implemented and that a new situation will start from the moment the agreement is reached. There was another question from Mr Bishop about the Coast Pact. Can old holiday homes or parks be refurbished before new buildings take place? All parties involved in the Coastal Pact have the intention to be cautious with new coastal buildings. No one wants to build the coast. To prevent this happening, a zoning is agreed in parts of the coast where and no new recreational buildings are allowed. Seeing opportunities for replacing and renewing old parks may be part of this. The Pact leaves that balance with the provinces and municipalities. I'm gonna finish with this. I found it pleasant and pleasant again to be debating the budget with the Chamber. I'm completely curious what the Secretary of State has to say about other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u172	We have to wait a little longer for that, because first Mrs Van Veldhoven comes up with a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u173	During the budget discussions that I had with the Minister, we have talked regularly about the Inspection Environment and Transport. I have also dealt with this in my contribution. In the written reply, the Minister states that there will be an analysis, which is part of a wider programme of Course ILT. After the investigation has been completed, the Minister will inform us about the results and conclusions. A multiannual plan is then established. Once it's established, it'll come to the Chamber. During this period of shifting MPs and shifting directors, it may be important to make the clear agreement that the results of the analysis are still being discussed with the Chamber before a new plan is adopted. I'd like to get a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u174	I think we can. I need to see how we can shape that and whether it's with this room or another. If that's the need of the Chamber, it's good to see where that makes sense. We have analysed whether we have enough people to fulfil the tasks we have to fulfil and, if so, whether we are setting the right priorities. In that we will shift some things over the next few years. But the priorities will also shift over and over again. Not only MPs and directors, but also priorities shift. So it remains a self-updating plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u175	Indeed, but precisely because it is not yet quite clear when the precise results and conclusions will come and there is, of course, a moment when the ILT would like to establish its multiannual programme and the Chamber, which will only be established, I thought it important to agree that, in the planning of time, we should take account of the fact that the Chamber is still able to talk about these results and conclusions, whether it is this Chamber or a subsequent member of the board, before it is then incorporated into a multiannual plan which we will then get after adoption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u176	I believe that a multiannual plan has already come to you recently, but now it is the next one. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u177	The Minister has come to an end. In our input, we discussed the burden of supervision and inspection. The Minister responded to the examination of cost security, but we also asked for penalty rates. I mentioned the example of the taxi board computer. That was an example to illustrate that you get a fine of €4,400 if you don't update your board computer in time, while if you don't wear a seat belt or drive too fast, the fine is €290 or €230. The question was whether, in the discussion on cost security, the Minister could look again at whether the whole system of penalty rates was not completely out of control.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u178	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u179	Those are the last words of the Minister's input. Let me take a look around, because we're at a jumping point. We could start with the answer from the Secretary of State, but I already had some angry people at this table when I made that intention known by hand. So I'm gonna take a look around. Shall we make that start or do we want to suspend first? I see that there is a preference for suspension, Madam Secretary of State.
