ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u1	Mr. Chairman. Before I go on to my general introduction and answer the individual questions that have been asked, let me briefly consider yesterday's terrible news. The brutal murder in Ankara, the violence in Zurich and the horrible events at a peaceful Christmas market at the Gedächtniskirche in the heart of Berlin. I'm sure everyone will agree with me when I say that our thoughts go out to the victims and the next of kin. Last night I had contact with my colleague, Minister Thomas de Maizière, and let him know that we are with them in our thoughts, especially with the victims and the next of kin. These tragic events show the weight of the responsibility that rests on all of us: to protect our inhabitants from extremism, from violence and from blind intolerance, which results in extremism and violence. I will begin my contribution with a general introduction. Then I will answer the individual questions that have been asked. First of all, let me thank the members of this Chamber for their first contribution. You all know I have a love for history. Nowhere do I feel it stronger than in this beautiful house. 100 years ago, my liberal minister, Bastiaan Ort, saw that the rule of law had to be more modern. Time asked for it, in his opinion. The technique then experienced a spectacular development. Social relations in society changed and ideas about justice and justice evaluated along with the new world. But what happened to the legislation? It came from the time of horse and cart. Ort, for example, wanted to introduce the rules on detection and prosecution into new legislation. In his words 'an urgent matter' and also socially necessary. At an unprecedented pace before that, Ort then introduced legislation in the area of punishment measurement, arrangements for people in debt, the protection of tenants and, I say to the Secretary of State, the supervision of foreigners. A new Code of Criminal Procedure was also needed and would be introduced. And see, 100 years later, we are again busy adjusting that Code of Criminal Procedure to the times. I am very pleased that I will soon be able to discuss this major legislative project with your Chamber in February next year. This is also a good illustration of the fact that our rule of law continues to demand permanent maintenance. It is precisely because we maintain, adapt and reform our rule of law that the timeless values of the rule of law stand. The principle of legality, the separation of powers, fundamental rights and independent justice: absolute conditions for a country that wants to preserve its freedom, security and prosperity. I confirm to Mrs Strik that I have great confidence in our judges, both in terms of quality and in terms of their independence. I am very pleased that a lot of people in our society share that trust, as is repeatedly demonstrated by research carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Office. The Netherlands also participates internationally with the best, especially when it comes to the independence of our justice. That is a core value that I stand for and will stand for. People in the Netherlands know that it has become safer in the Netherlands over the last four years. This is evident not only from the crime figures, but also from the figures in the victim survey that we keep regularly. People indicate that they have less to do with robberies, street robberies and home invasions. That is why we are extending this successful approach to violence in entertainment areas and in public transport. In the last four years, the approach to organised crime has also been strengthened. Think of the approach to hemp cultivation, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. In doing so, we act as one government with all partners, and that works. In recent years many more criminal investigations have been carried out, more administrative measures have been taken, more criminals have been locked up or got caught in their wallets. In 2012, we took away, proudly, 45 million euros of criminal assets. Last year it was over 140 million, and while this year is not over, the counter is already over 200 million euros. Why is this so important? A district attorney from the South of the Netherlands said this to me the other day during a work visit: always take the short blow and take them where you can get them; grab your chances, work with everyone you can work with and remember that crime cannot pay off. In that light, I'm also looking at the prosecution's attempts to get criminal motorcycle gangs banned. National police have been better at it since the recalibrate. The national police are modernising so that online fraud, trafficking in human beings and other crimes can also be effectively combated. I shall come back to this in a moment in response to questions from Mr Rombout. These developments are significant. We're on the right track, but we're not there yet. I would like to express my appreciation to all professionals throughout the safety chain, who work day and night, from morning to evening, for our security and our justice. With our support, with the new budget for 2017 and the following years, they will be able to get back to work again next year, with the aim of making the Netherlands safer and strengthening our rule of law. I come to the answer to the individual questions and begin with the questions put by Mr Rombouts in the first term. Next, I will address the issues of the rule of law, national police, legal aid and V and J are changing. Finally, I come to Europe and Mrs Strik's question on the development of the rule of law in Europe. Mr Rombouts asked me to go into a type of helicopter view on the question of the security chain and how we will ensure that not only the visible but also the invisible crime, for example cybercrime and terrorism, are adequately combated. Let me say first of all that I agree with Mr Rombouts that it was necessary to strengthen the whole safety chain in a structural way. That is exactly what the cabinet has done with the drive of 450 million structuralally for the coming years. So that money was still at the top of the 250 million structural funds that had already been added to my department's 2016 budget. A total of 1.7 billion has been added to the budget in recent years, but this was partly due to the additional activities required under the responsibility of the Secretary of State for the reception of asylum seekers in 2015 and 2016. This amount of 450 million is intended for the police (221 million), the Public Prosecutor's Office (13 million) and the judiciary (35 million), all in 2017. This substantial additional investment will strengthen these organisations both qualitatively and quantitatively. It is true, I say to Mr Rombouts, that we must look not only at traditional crime, but also at the crime that threatens tomorrow. Some of these resources are therefore intended to strengthen the fight against a less visible but very serious crime, organised and undermining crime and, of course, cybercrime. The Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the judiciary have informed me that, with the agreements we have made with them in this budget, they can get rid of the tasks they are supposed to fulfil. That does not surprise me either, because we have had these three organisations comprehensively and carefully examined what is needed to enable these three organisations to carry out their tasks. I shared this in detail with this Chamber during the budget debate last year. I will not go into detail, but one thing is certain: the results of these investigations have been the basis for the additional investment made by the Cabinet in the Department of Security and Justice. Mr Rombouts asked if we have a picture of what we want to achieve with that money, even in the future. First of all, we have the cybersecurity action programme. That is the responsibility of the Secretary of State. This is part of the second National Cybersecurity Strategy that was offered to the House of Representatives on 5 September 2016 together with the Cybersecurity statue 2016. Next year, therefore, 5 million euros and from 2018 onwards 14 million euros will be made structurally available for cyber security and the fight against cybercrime. First of all, the capacity of the National Detection Network is increased and investment is made in the Police Team High Tech Crime. Mr Rombouts is right to say that it is important that we do not allow Team High Tech Crime to be a small specialised part of the national police force, but that we use it to spread the knowledge and skills of dealing with cybercrime across ordinary units. That is exactly the idea of the investment we are going to make. Furthermore, the implementation of the agreements in the 2015-2018 Security Agenda is also on track to address cybercrime as planned. That is why 1.5 million extra has been made available to deal with cybercrime in the coming years. In the area of terrorism, I can report the following. Once again, we are investigating what is needed to effectively combat the risk of terrorism. We all realise that we cannot guarantee 100% safety, however much I would like to do. The National Counterterrorism Strategy 2016-2020, which appeared a few months ago, further develops this comprehensive approach, aimed at both prevention and repression, in close cooperation with all involved chain partners, including, of course, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, not least the intelligence and security services, the Royal Marechaussee, the DSI, the Special Intervention Service, and of course the municipalities. This will take place alongside international cooperation and the exchange of information with other countries. That means that, when we look at the whole safety chain that Mr Rombouts is asking for, I am convinced that with all these extra investments, all those reports, all those studies and with the policy plans we have, the approach to the safety chain has been brought to a level, both qualitatively and quantitatively and in terms of funding. That doesn't mean we can sit back quietly. We remain alert to the development of crime, both classical and less visible, and we continue to work on further improving and strengthening the criminal justice chain, as I have also described in my comprehensive response to Mrs Bikker's motion. It goes without saying that the next cabinet will have to make further choices on the priorities it considers important. In the direction of Mrs Strik and Mr Rombouts, I would say that this Chamber can rely on all the building blocks required for this to be delivered by my department in due course. Then I come to the subject of the rule of law. I shall begin with Mr Ruers' questions. It signals a breakdown of the rule of law and a diminishing public confidence in the government. I do not share Mr Ruers' analysis. Mr Ruers knows that too, because we have shared it with each other before. Confidence in justice as an important pillar of the rule of law has been stable for years, and I would add that it is the highest of all public institutions. There has been no change to that either. Trust in justice is important. The case law rightly invests a lot in this. As a minister, I am contributing to this through legislation and financial resources, for example for the KEI programme and, of course, through the price agreement with the case law. Let me just put that on the table again. We have made an excellent deal with the judiciary over the next three years on how it is financed. In addition, an additional investment of 35 million per year will be added which will enable the case law to comply with its own project Professional standards. This is in addition to a structural amount of EUR 26 million already added to the previous budget for the KEI programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u2	I hear the Minister telling me this and I get an aha-erlebnis. I've read the Acts. I have also read the Acts of the House of Representatives. I have seen the debate there. Then the Minister kept the same story there. Then he was approached by various parties with the announcement that those parties had spoken with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the police and that they all complained to those parties that they had much and far too little money. Then the minister said he hears other stories. It is typical that these organizations say to parties in the House of Representatives that they have too little. That is what they say to us and that the Minister says: they come to me and it all goes "hallelujah." I would like to ask the Minister: are there two worlds in that area? Who's right? Are those the summits of those organizations that come to complain to us, or is it the minister who says he spoke to them and that nothing is going on? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u3	It's very simple. Let me point out that the Minister is always right. I think it's good to establish that. Mrs Strik already indicated that the chief of police at his installation indicated that additional investment was needed in the national police. I agreed with him. I had that examined. I've determined what was needed. I have determined the amounts involved, and these amounts have then been added to my budget. That's exactly how it happened. The Public Prosecutor's Office has indicated that it needed extra money for a number of new tasks. That extra money has been given by mutual agreement. The case law has indicated that he wanted extra money for the professional standards. That's what he said earlier on behalf of KEI. In both cases, in 2016 and in 2017, that need has been met and neat agreements have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u4	The Minister is repeating himself. First of all, of course, the Minister is not always right. Let me give you an example. When we discussed the austerity of the funded legal aid, the Minister also thought he was right and the Chamber called him to order. So the minister wasn't right at the time. Maybe he can remind himself of that for a while. Then he knows it. It was a spicy debate here. I must admit that it was with the minister's predecessor, but he also thought he was right. He also used to formulate in those terms. It is still a fact that, even with KEI, there are still enormous problems in the judiciary, because there is not enough money. Let me repeat one more example. Not so long ago, in a court of law, in a court of the Netherlands, there was a case in which the counsellors said to the parties: you should listen carefully, we have a closet full of things that we cannot deal with, we are too busy, you have to decide what you are doing here, because we do not have time to deal with your case. Let me get this straight. Those people were being put under enormous pressure. They felt they had to settle for a compromise, because the judiciary, a court of law, no longer functioned in that respect. Where is the money that the minister has spent on the judiciary, if this is still the state of affairs, if there are delays of more than a year? The Minister can't say that's true, can he? There's an absolute discrepancy between these two situations, isn't there? Can the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u5	I can't explain much about it. Mr Ruers for a moment forgets that we are dealing with independent justice. This means that independent justice itself deals with the way in which it organises its own financing. I know the example of the court that Mr Ruers is talking about, because he mentioned it in relation to the Spring Note, just over a year ago. I also said that I do not know those delays. We've had research conducted into the discussion about the workload. It is clear what the results are. Mr Ruers knows him, too. Finally, I would like to say the following. If a court receives too little money from the Council of Justice, it is an internal matter in the case-law. I don't recognize the image. I know other images of the Council of Justice, including those of the courts. Because of the independence of justice, Mr Ruers cannot appeal to the Minister in this particular case. Mr Ruers may ask me if we have met the need of the judiciary to be supported in the KEI programme. The answer to that is yes. In 2015, it was clear that the case law needed extra money in 2016. Well, that's a given. Contrary to what Mr Ruers suggests, the KEI project is not a cut-off. The case law itself started the KEI project because it was thought that it was time to digitize. That's right. I'm also very glad that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u6	I hear the Minister say: KEI is not a cutback. Everyone in the Netherlands agrees that KEI is a cut. Mr Coconuts of the Supreme Court noted that. I already quoted him. He is one of the top lawyers in the Netherlands. He says: it's primarily a cutback. Who the hell is... No, let me say it nicely: who's wrong now? Mr Coconuts and all the others from the judiciary or the minister? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u7	Let me begin by saying that I have a great deal of appreciation for Mr Coconuts. However, he is not part of the judiciary, as Mr Ruers undoubtedly knows. The Supreme Court is not part of the judiciary in the sense that it does not fall within the jurisdiction of the Court. It is up to the Council to decide on the implementation of the efficiency targets. The case law itself chose KEI. That's his choice and his freedom. That is the independence of the judiciary, which has chosen to do so through KEI. There was no austerity order from the cabinet. I am pleased that I have concluded a good price agreement with the judiciary and that the judiciary recognizes itself in that. Mr Ruers asked about working stocks, so that is the same question he asked in the spring. I can mention a whole series of measures. Maybe I shouldn't start in 2015, but give a more recent example. Of course, there are sometimes challenges in courts and courts, but in general it has been established that civilian soil work stocks have declined significantly over the last two years and that canton cases have remained stable. There are no delays in dealing with petitions to the establishment, modification or termination of a regime. All courts aim to reduce working stocks to a normal level in 2017 by standardising the working methods and deploying additional capacity. I really think that the judiciary is taking on its responsibilities in this respect. I'm getting to the police thing. Mr Ruers said that there should be a leak and that negative developments should be reversed in the police. Mrs Strik also asked about the state of the reorganisation. I would remind you that, when I started with the Secretary of State in this department, there was an appointment from my predecessor to review the reorganisation. As a result, we, in close consultation with all the parties involved, have, of course, re-evaluated the reorganisation of the police, the regional mayors, the Public Prosecutor's Office. As a result, we decided that by the end of 2017 the basis should be in order. I am simply saying as it is: a great deal of effort must be made to do so. We still expect to make it to the end of 2017, but after 2017, there is still a lot to be done. The evaluation committee of the Police Act 2012 will issue the second report in October 2017. Then we can also check, according to agreements with this Chamber, whether that has been arranged and realized. The personal reorganisation, one of the spearheads of my review note, is heading in the right direction. Before the summer all employees received their placement decision. Of a total of 52,000 employees there was a relatively limited number of objections. The reorganisation process is not only careful but also prosperous. We then made additional money available, including in the interim for the new collective agreement that I concluded with the police. We have a number of pressing problems to solve now. In a number of areas we have to fill out vacancies. This was only possible after completion of the first stage of the reorganisation, in accordance with the agreements with the unions. Luckily, we can do that now. I can inform Mr Rombouts that 219 appointments to the open vacancies of district agents have been made as of 1 December. 50 procedures have been successfully completed. So they've led to appointments. Of the total of 300 candidates, more than 200 are still in proceedings for the 75 vacancies currently open. So I really expect that we will be able to take major steps and that the shortages of district agents will be filled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u8	Can the Minister finish the math? How far are we from the 5,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u9	The goal is to regulate 97% of the implementation by the end of 2017. Then we filled in 97% of the standard of one district cop out of 5,000 inhabitants. That leads me to say that I will see if one of the officials is still nodding upstairs, but I do not see that there are some around 3,500 local agents working in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u10	So by the end of 2017, we're at what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u11	Ninety-seven percent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u12	So 97% of the Dutch have one district agent per 5,000 inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u13	No, much more. 97% of all neighborhood agents that should be there if you assume 1 in 5,000, will be filled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u14	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u15	There is still a job to be done for this, I say to Mr Rombouts. This file was extremely difficult. We knew there was a shortage of district agents. At the same time, we knew that district agents are incredibly important to implement our policies with each other. I come to Mr Ruers' question about Professor Terpstra's report. I am very pleased with Professor Terpstra's report. In the policy response sent, I have clarified that the points of attention can be divided along two lines. The solution directions are in line with those lines. One direction of solution concerns the connection of the police with the citizen, including through the district agents. This has also been achieved, for example, by the 10 million that will be invested structurally each year in the support of the district agents. Think of the improvement of mobile work, the pilot with the bodycams, the improvement of professionalism and quality through training and the provision of additional ICT support. The other direction of solution is to improve the organisation of the basic teams. Mr Ruers rightly referred to the role of the team chief. We really need to take steps here. I have been on a lot of work visits myself and I have seen that people really need to get used to the larger basic teams. The idea is that they are much more robust and can therefore do their job better. At the same time, unlike the old days, it's more difficult to know all your colleagues. If you're on a 100-man base team, it's harder to know all your colleagues. What I like so much about working visits is that I hear people talking about it enthusiastically too. They're looking at how to make sure everyone knows each other and that way they can work together. The police are going to work better and information-driven in a very large number of areas. This development comes mainly from the bottom up. I'm proud the police do it that way. Mrs. Strik asked me how to ensure that the innovation needed by the police is not left behind. The good news is that in its most recent report on police ICT, the General Court has found that there are sufficient resources to deliver on the intended ICT ambitions. In determining the level of the available budget, the so-called absorption capacity of the police organisation has been explicitly taken into account. There's always room for renewal. At the same time, a priority order has been introduced which will structure the IV activities in the coming years. It is involved as a framework in the preparation of the so-called IV portfolio for 2017 and beyond. Meanwhile, consideration is being given to reducing the costs of ICT management so that more room is created for innovation. That's what the Chief Constable's gonna do. He has told me that he is going to work on this with enthusiasm. I also spoke about this very recently with the so-called Review Board. He also recognizes himself in this image.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u16	The Court of Auditors has indeed said that the additional investment is needed, but has warned against too little room for renewal. I can now hear you say that there is a need to cut down on management costs so that resources are released for renewal. But do you not think there is a risk that this will not work and that there will again be too little room for renewal? Wouldn't it be necessary to make additional resources available for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u17	We are talking about an IV portfolio compiled by the police themselves. They know very well what they can handle. That was also looked into in the P&M study. It has also shown that you have to take into account the absorption capacity of the organisation. If you add an extra 100 million, so to speak, then the question arises how to get rid of that, how to invest it. For example, you need to set up tendering processes for this. That's why you have to recruit people. They all need to be screened. Investment in ICT is extremely important. Make no mistake. We're talking about an investment in ICT of a total of 600 million a year. That's a hell of a amount. I assume that this will still have to be raised in the coming years, because in dealing with cybercrime and in cybersecurity, the ratio of people/machines will gradually change. I'm sure of it. The investment is sufficient, given what we've agreed to. In the future and thanks to the renewal, management costs will be reduced. Then there will be extra room for renewal. That's how the system is decorated. What does the man on the street notice about the improvement of ICT? When you ask an agent on the street "how do you know the difference between ICT investments?" That is not the answer I would like to have, but that is the answer: there are far fewer malfunctions in the system than they used to be. Of course, that's very good news. This is a reduction of about 90% of the number of malfunctions. All employees get a workplace with modern software and other resources. All employees can log in to their own digital work environment at all police stations in the Netherlands. Almost 32,000 police officers currently have a smartphone with the so-called MEOS functionality. A simple example of this is that they can enter the names of those they have before them and then read the whole file. They can also take a picture of someone's license plate. Then they get the whole file automatically. They don't have to use a radio to call the power station anymore. They automatically get insight into what might be going on with the car and what information is available about it. I can still give you a whole list of ICT applications, but I think Mrs Strik agrees with me that the most important thing is that people on the streets, police officers, find that things are getting better. Does this mean that all police officers will never have a reason to complain about their computer again? I am convinced, and I hear that on work visits, that further improvements can also be made in the field of hardware. All this will be done within the framework of the programme. Then Mrs Strik asked: how do we know that the money that the police gets is well spent? The most important is the P&C cycle, the planning & control cycle. The police provide monthly financial and quarterly management and financial reports. That's closely monitored by my ministry. The intensification funds allocated for 2017 and beyond are subject to specific conditions, so that you can check whether the money is being invested in what it is intended for and whether the goals set are being achieved with it. Of course, this is the responsibility of the police's annual papers, including the Parliament. Mrs Strik asked whether the accountability of the national objectives to Parliament was in order. Yes, the objectives are set out in the draft budget and in the 2015-2018 Safety Agenda with clear annual targets. This is done through the annual report and intensively in other areas, including through the letters we send to the Chamber. Regionally these are laid down in the so-called regional policy plan and locally in the comprehensive security plan, on which the mayor is accountable to the Council of Ministers. Then I come to the subject of legal aid. Maybe it's a good thing I'm giving you an overview of that. Mr Ruers referred to the Franken motion. It was carried out by asking the Wolfsen Committee to look very closely at our legal aid system and to make proposals for its improvement. I think the committee's report is excellent. I had a very good exchange of views with the House of Representatives but also with this Chamber. The aim is to ensure that a sustainable system of legal aid is created and at the same time to take account of the interests of all parties involved. In particular, the law seeker, but also, of course, the interests of the lawyer, but also, for example, those of mediators who can provide their services on the basis of legal aid. The committee has taken up her duties enthusiastically. From the outset, it indicated that financial considerations had not been paramount for it. There was therefore no austerity mandate given to the committee. In all its recommendations, the Committee has explicitly taken into account the improvement of the quality of the subsidised legal aid, including in the case of a recommendation of, for example, those 900 points. We discussed this extensively with the House of Representatives. There was no enthusiasm for that in the Chamber. Then I indicated that I would discuss this with the Lawyers' Order. That conversation's still going on. I will inform the House of Representatives about its results. Mrs Strik then asked if I was prepared to make a more flexible budgeting for funded legal aid. The good news for Mrs Strik is that the legal aid system has open-ended funding. This means that there is automatic flexibility in budgeting. If there's excess, there's excess. No "no" is sold by the Legal Assistance Board. Mrs Strik spoke about the Van der Meer Committee. That is the committee that has been instructed by me to review the flat-rate points fee. This has occurred from two points. First of all, at the explicit request of the Order of Lawyers, which considered this desirable, but also at the explicit request of, for example, the Dutch Association of Young Criminal Attorneys. It has already indicated in a discussion with our predecessors that in the budgetary system, in the point system, some distortion had arisen over time. Too many points were paid for some things. For others, it may have been possible to pay a few fewer points. That point has already been largely taken into account by Secretary of State Teeven in his plans, which have been introduced. But I thought it was okay, also on the advice of the Lawyers' Order, to do it structuralally again. In particular, because the Moon Commission, which had done so before, I believe, last did so 15 years ago. So I think it is perfectly reasonable to do so. I have used the same principles as for the Moon Commission. One of those principles was that it should be budget-neutral. So there is nothing new about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u18	The Minister gives a nice overview of the plans that have been made and which were subsequently partly blocked by one of the two chambers, and by the committees that have looked at the system. But what we find is that there are now new plans to make cuts in the legal aid that has been financed. If not 900 points, how many? Proposals have been described in the letter of 31 May, which includes a new legislative proposal. My plea was: do it more sustainable and longer-term and do not come up with ad hoc measures every time to see if more can be cut. That was mostly my question. Is the Minister prepared to stop looking for new ways of cutting back on the legal aid financed and to ensure that the sector knows what it is doing and that it can further develop its quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u19	I'm, frankly, a little surprised by this question. The Franken motion calls for a structural review of the legal aid system. The cabinet passed that one-on-one assignment on to the Wolfsen Commission. The cabinet has said: this is not a austerity mission; now look at a sustainable system. That's exactly what Mrs. Strik wants. The Wolfsen Committee then comes up with an opinion, which I take over in my letter of 31 May. This leads to the firm conviction of the Wolfsen Committee, which, at the request of this Chamber, has set itself a more sustainable system. Then Mrs Strik says: the Minister should not fill in the Wolfsen Committee's advice, because this may lead to a cut in the budget. Well, then I would point out to Mrs Strik that more money will be spent on legal aid in 2017. I would also point out to her that the opinion of the Wolfsen Committee was to reduce the hourly allowance. That was not my advice, but the Wolfsen Committee, set up at the request of this Chamber, which I am very pleased with. The Wolfsen Committee thinks that hourly rates are too high, but it points out that this can be achieved in the future. Despite the fact that the Wolfsen Committee believes that the tariffs can be reduced, I am being suggested not to do so and to keep them at the same level. I think that's a good advice. I don't see what Mrs. Strik is saying. I can only see a cabinet doing exactly what the First Chamber asked for, namely asking the Wolfsen Committee for advice, which has given an excellent opinion. Following consultation with the House of Representatives, this opinion has been transposed into legislation. That is all Mrs Strik can ask from the cabinet, and it can't be any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u20	I do not think it is entirely right for the Wolfsen Committee to be used as an argument for proposing policy ideas. After all, it is up to the Minister to decide whether a certain cut is justified or not. The 900 points are now off the table, but I understand that there is again talk of a different ceiling, which could cause problems for specialist lawyers. There are still other options for limiting the legal aid that has been financed. This can once again lead to uncertainty and perhaps difficulties for specialised funded legal aid to survive. To what extent does the Minister take the effects for that profession?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u21	I really must contradict Mrs Strik on this point. What she's talking about isn't austerity. There is an opinion from the Wolfsen Committee, of which you cannot say in spirit that it is a bad advice. The Chamber doesn't think so either. The House has said that the 900-point limit is somewhat narrow. A majority of the House has voted in favour of 1,200 points in the same general consultation, but I have not yet reached that stage. I really think that I should be expected to consult carefully on this matter with the Dutch Bar Association. I've already indicated that I want to do that anyway, and that's what the letter says. So the government has not embraced these 900 points at all, that has not been the issue. I simply said that I think it is a good advice that should be discussed with the order. I have worked in the order myself for years, so I have a heartfelt heart. But I really think that can be expected of me. A sustainable system is a sustainable system. That's where we're going, in close consultation. I therefore do not recognize myself in the suggestions made by Mrs Strik here. Mrs Strik asked a question about Europe. Of course, if I have bilateral contacts, for example with the Hungarian Justice Minister visiting The Hague recently, I can be expected to indicate that we have concerns about ensuring the rule of law in that country. The rule of law is then discussed mainly in the General Affairs Council. The ministers concerned are also discussing the application of the rule of law mechanism by the Commission. Mr Ruers asked a question about a cut in the NVvR. I think it is good to look carefully at how that went, including in the House of Representatives. Mr Ruers' group has tabled an amendment there to reverse this austerity. At that time, I explained in detail why I felt that, even if I had been given extra money, I had to make this choice and that I could take her on my behalf. This led to the rejection of the amendment tabled in the House of Representatives. This means that in the meantime I have not received any other image than the image I received in the House of Representatives. We have talked about this in detail. There was no support, unlike the SP Group, for that amendment to reverse the subsidy. I see no reason to make commitments on this now. I can't either, because if I had to change that, I'd have to cut back on something else, and I wouldn't know what to do with it. Mrs Strik asked a question about the organisation of the department itself. I would like to say first of all that we found last year that it is very important that the way in which the ministry operates and the way in which it operates should also be changed. I can say a great deal about that, but I will be very brief. It is very important that the V and J programmes, as we have set up under the leadership of my Secretary-General, be implemented over the coming years. The aim is to make the Ministry of Security and Justice even more open and transparent in terms of organisation, to be a reliable partner for citizens, business, governance and media, and to deliver business in a changing society. This is a multi-annual trajectory, which we do not only do ourselves. We also invite people from outside to bring in their knowledge and expertise. That is what reflects our behaviour. A self-critical attitude is inevitable. That process is in progress, we report on it regularly. Soon we will do so in the framework of the 2016 annual papers. Mrs Strik can take note of this. Mrs Strik asked about the control function, as recommended by the General Court. This function has been improved, which applies not only to the department itself, but also to the implementing organisations. Because the control of the department is as good as the control within the implementation organizations. The vast majority of the money spent by Security and Justice is not spent by the department, but by the implementing organisations for which I am responsible. We informed this Chamber about this in November 2015. The control function will be further centralised in 2017. This gives more insight into financial considerations. The three-layer model is replaced by the two-layer model, in accordance with the Court's recommendation on this point. I have good hope that the Court of Auditors will also see and appreciate this in the assessment of the annual reports for 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u22	We need the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u23	Mr. Chairman. Through you, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I would once again like to congratulate him on his self-confidence and the overview with which he deals with this dossier. I would also like to congratulate him on his personal contribution to these matters during his term of office. Invisible crime should be better placed on the agenda, especially cybercrime. Can the Chamber look at how it intends to do this in the future with the Minister in committee? This could be done with the V and J committee, but perhaps also with the EZ committee, which can be organized in greater detail. In addition to getting things on the agenda, something needs to be done, and it needs to be done on a multiannual basis. That's not gonna happen in a year. I am referring to getting the safety chain in place, so that the partners and we, those who lead them, feel that the Netherlands is in order in this respect. With all due respect that I have for the answer of the Minister, I do not take back any of that. The Minister has a very fast pace of speaking. Maybe that'll help. I've been in regular contact with the partners and their leaders in recent weeks. They are really still working hard to deliver the new building blocks for everything that needs to be done in the coming years to really get order. I'm sure the Minister will know that. I initially considered tempting the Chamber to make a ruling on this point. I'm not gonna do that. If the Minister says that the Netherlands has become safer, I will not contradict him. If the minister says people experience less nuisance, I won't contradict him. If he mentions figures about the commitment to getting more district agents, then I say: chapeau! However, from day one, as mayor of Brabant, I have been involved in the task force set up by the minister's predecessor. There's a lot of hard work there, and a lot of good work is being done. It is the first time that organised crime has been tackled by everyone, including national detectives and supported by the Ministry. A lot of money is being taken away, but insiders also know that we only get a very small part of what goes on in crime. I see the results monthly. We also know how to get some of the people behind bars. Nevertheless, it is confidence-building results that absolutely require much more, if we are to be able to fight this wreath. Another issue is that the partners, both the police and the judiciary, as well as the judiciary, indicate that they have too few people on the job. Let me start with the judges, because we always put them in the back row. Mr Ruers has already pointed this out. Too much structural overtime is required of people. There's nothing wrong with overtime. It might happen. We'll all do it. I think we're doing it now. However, if people have to work overtime year in, year out, week in, week out, that is ultimately not healthy for the entire organization. At the Public Prosecutor's Office there is an urgent need for more people, but also for specialized people. That is certainly the case when it comes to cybercrime, but also for the other things I mentioned. Invisible crime is about four things: undermining, cloud or cyber, international trafficking in human beings and terrorism. Terrorism is the hardest thing to prepare for and especially to prepare for quantitatively. What do you have to do? I think it is wise for us to say together that it is useful to work on matters that should be done in the next cabinet period. I would like to hear from the Minister that he confirms this. Maybe I'm way too administrative for this house, but there's always a government. The government won't stop after this cabinet. The current government must ensure that the government is ready again this day to do what is now believed to be necessary. I know that the partners are now making calculations of what they need over the next few years. The work has not yet been done, despite the fine results achieved by the Minister. It's a dilemma with which I struggle a little, because I've been a driver my whole life. Can you ask this cabinet to prepare for the next cabinet business? The Minister says he doesn't, but I don't think so. He's talking about building blocks. Does he want it put down by an external agency and by officials? If he gladly accepts the challenge of creating legacy, I think it is wise to give it more political and administrative weight. I'd do that myself if I were a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u24	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his answers. We often disagree. That seems to be our position in this respect. I am pleased that the Minister stands for his position and makes clear what he thinks, although I do not always agree with him. I heard the Minister say a number of times that he has not cut back and that no cuts are being made. In any case, I know from his predecessor that a substantial austerity task has been laid down at the Ministry of Security and Justice. That's what you notice when you look back at the beginning of this cabinet. At some point this task has become less, then more: I am not going to repeat the pluses and minuses, because there has been extensive discussion in the House of Representatives. The effects of this austerity do exist in society, particularly on the portfolio of Minister Van der Steur. I'm interested in those effects. Is that necessary? Recently we saw favourable developments in the financial sense. I am thinking of the very recent comments made by the Minister of Finance. He kept a hallelujah story that the budget was fine. Everything's fine. There was a fortune of 4 billion recently. Of the 4 billion, a small piece could have gone to the minister of V and J. Then he could have done nice and necessary things for the people. In the end, it is a political choice. The money's here. Of those 4 billion could easily have been spent 1 billion on V and J. Then all the problems I've listed would have been largely over. Why should the 4 billion be used to relieve the public debt? There is another kind of public debt, namely the debt of the state to the citizens who have been made short by the cuts. That is something we must put together. This public debt to the citizens is not paid. The money was there, one could have redeemed it now by making up for all those demolition steps. The minister says they're working fine. I have great respect for the police. Let's put that first. These people have to work terribly hard in an increasingly difficult environment. Society today is very hard, especially with modern media. It is said that good work is being done. However, I would remind the Minister of a recent broadcast by Zembla about the passing of drugs in the port of Rotterdam. You will have seen the program: it was painful to see. The people of the IRS and the police wanted to do something, but they didn't get the people to stop the drugs. The port of Rotterdam is as leaky as a basket. It is a big problem and the Minister has to solve it. That's what he needs money for; that's what you hear in the whole program. I would say: let the Minister make a fist to his colleague in Finance and say that he needs money to solve that problem. I would like to hear if the Minister wishes to do so, because that is ultimately the problem we are talking about. I come to my final point: the subsidy for the NVvR. Money also plays a role there. It's $277,000. This is an advisory function that the Dutch Association for Justice has been fulfilling to everyone's satisfaction for decades. It is high quality advice that always comes from this unique organisation in a unique position. You're throwing away something I'm saying, how dare you throw it away? You should be jealous of it. The minister says he has to make a decision. But then comes the political decision that the Minister has to take? Are you gonna drop that valuable advice because there isn't $277,000, or are you gonna go to the finance minister and tell him that the money is needed? If necessary, the Minister will find a solution somewhere else, but he must give home or home. If you think it's important, you have to get money for it because the money's there. That's a political choice the minister has to make. He cannot say that savings must be made and that such a costly matter as the advice of the NVvR is therefore thrown overboard. He shouldn't. I think it is irresponsible, and for that reason I am tabling a motion on this matter. The President shall: Mr Ruers, Mr Kox, Mr Strik, Mr Sietsma and Mr Overbeek proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed reduction in the subsidy to the Dutch Association for Justice (NVvR) will no longer enable the NVvR to continue its important legislative advisory role;]] [[noting that the opinions of the NVVA are of a high level and can no longer be ignored from the legislative process;]] [[whereas the NVvR has a unique and independent position by combining the expertise of both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the case-law;]] [[points out that it is therefore desirable to avoid the planned austerity and give the NVvR the opportunity to continue to issue its valuable legislative opinions;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways in which it can be ensured that the NVvR can continue to give its useful legislative advice and to inform the Court of Justice about the results of that investigation in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VI-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u25	The motion was immediately the last part of Mr Ruers' contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u26	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It is good to hear that he has supported his foreign colleagues in the recent attacks. I began my speech by advocating the maintenance of the rule of law. I have also addressed the role of the Minister. I said that I missed him in the debate in which the judiciary was criticised, especially from the parliament. Judges were judged to be "blasted fool" and a legal process was set up as a political trial. I haven't heard the Minister answer that yet. He said very quickly that he has respect for the judiciary. It is very nice that that is the case, but I also asked him why I did not hear him in this debate. He knows that the judiciary cannot defend itself, so it would be a credit to the minister if he indicated the limits of such a debate. In any case, he must stand up for the position of the judiciary and state clearly that there is no political trial here and that the judiciary is integrity. We should not only hear this here, but I would also very much like to hear it from the Minister in the social and public debate. The Minister has indeed given a lot of answers about the control function and the budget. In the Minister's view, it is all sustainable enough and sufficient for the long term. In itself, that is good to hear, but at the same time I would like to point out the fundamental criticism that the Court of Auditors has expressed, not just now, but for several years now. I wonder how that relates to the more or less light manner in which the Minister seems to endorse that criticism. Because it's quite a lot: reorganisations, new regulations and yet cuts. All this changes the work processes of the various actors in the chain. They are ultimately jointly responsible for the functioning of our rule of law. We continue to monitor this; let me put it this way. I certainly hope that the Minister will do what he can, also for the preparation of a next cabinet to ensure that it is more robust. The current criticism of the Ministry's unmanageability must be taken seriously. The necessary measures should therefore be taken. Finally, I come to the legal aid that has been financed. Of course, it is very good that the Minister listens to the results and recommendations of the Wolfsen Commission. It's a little too easy for me for the Minister to say he's just doing it. New proposals are now coming up. In the case of legal aid financed, there is a fear that there will again be hidden cuts. The fact that the recalibratement of the points system should be fiscally neutral seems to indicate that the quality and need are not entirely paramount. I call on the Minister to look at how we can keep the system fully intact when drafting new proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I call the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u28	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Court for their comments in the second term. Let me begin by thanking Mr Rombouts for the compliments he has made to my address and to the Secretary of State. Let me say immediately that these compliments are mainly earned by the people who do the work that day in, day out under our responsibility. These are the people of the national police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary, the probation, the COA and the IND and also the prison staff. And then I'm probably still shorthanded because I didn't mention them. But these are the people working day in and day out for the two pillars of our department: on the one hand, strengthening our rule of law and, on the other hand, making the Netherlands safer. I would like to say on behalf of the Secretary of State that he wishes to go through all the cyber reports and policies with the Committee on Security and Justice and, if he wishes, the Committee on Economic Affairs. Mr Rombouts is absolutely right: this is an important subject that will not be less important in the coming years. There's something crazy going on. It is perhaps nice that I should remind Mr Rombouts of that. The surveys we have conducted show that the number of cyber victims is falling. That is strange, because we know at the same time that the risk of cybercrime is increasing. This is not only because the Netherlands is one of the best-connected countries on the Internet, but also because classic crime is at the same time reducing and because young people have more experience, knowledge and skills in cyber activities. In this context, a recent survey is interesting. This is one of the building blocks of the policy pursued by the Secretary of State on this point. This survey shows that very young people sometimes spend their time on the Internet for someone else or sometimes do something on the Internet that they actually think shouldn't be done. I think that is exemplary for what Mr Rombouts is pointing out. The Secretary of State is happy to discuss this with the committees. It was rightly said that it really needs to be put in order. I note that the Council for Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the national police agree with what is being organized for them in this budget. I also note that Mr Rombouts and I both know that in the coming years, of course, there will be new and even more complex challenges in many areas that will require further action, priority or further investment. We are happy to provide building blocks for a new coalition agreement; on request and without being asked to do so. Mr Rombouts has already referred to the fact that, for example, I assume that the regional mayors who have already told us in the past what they might think should be done in the future will certainly provide building blocks for this. I'm sure you will. That must be done, because I think it is a good thing that we are always looking at how we can do our job better. Mr Rombouts cited the task force's example in tackling undermining and organised crime in the South of the Netherlands. It was set by my predecessor. I would like to point out that I have made additional money available for this purpose. So I have not only continued to do so, but I have also made additional money available for this. This sees, for example, additional possibilities for taking away. Additional funding has also been provided for the D.A. to support the work even better. In addition, we are making extra money available to the NFI in order to be able to take on more effectively the traces that result from all these fantastic investigations. We have also done this in the case of trafficking in human beings. That's a real concern. I have seen in the report of the National Counter-Terrorism and Security Coordinator that the number of cases being taken up has been reduced in recent times. That does not mean that trafficking in human beings has been reduced. We must really assume that this is also because there is a great deal of investment in human trafficking. This is also a serious form of crime. Those two probably repressed each other. That is why it is very important that we invest extra in combating it. The same applies to the fight against terrorism. For example, a large part of the extra money that has become available for 2017 and further investment is being made in the intensification of the DSI and the activities of the Royal Marechaussee in this respect. I now turn to the issue of the judiciary. Mr Rombouts said that there would be structural overtime. That's what we've been investigating. That investigation.... the 2015 workload measurement... has shown that there is overtime in the judiciary. That's right. The 2015 workload measurement was the basis for the price negotiations. It is important for Mr Rombouts to realise that this investigation has been included in the debate, including from the judiciary, on what is needed to do something about it. They compared the workload to that of general practitioners. It has been established that general practitioners, like judges, are working overtime, but only in the comparable profession. The general practitioner has been taken as an example. The 2014-2016 price agreement already provided for an additional 26 million, including for the workload and for the support of KEI. Those things are connected. The additional investment of 35 million in professional standards is expected to help reduce the workload. I think it's important to mention that. It is not something we have said: it will be. We have actually sought solutions to this problem together with the judiciary. I do not think it is my job to talk about the agenda of another cabinet. That's why I just shook my head. Mr Rombouts understands that. The electoral programmes of the various parties show that a number of areas are given extra attention. We will absolutely support that thought formation. I'm not ruling out that we won't be alone in that. I would like to thank Mr Rombouts in general for the compliments he has given to all those people who work for us, for our security and for strengthening the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u29	I'm not here to take back any of that, Mr. Chairman. What status do these building blocks get? I already suggested that you could turn on an external agency. You can have a report drawn up by the government. You can have the partners deliver a piece of their own. They can also provide this directly to political parties. I challenged the Minister a few months ago, in July, for the first time with the word "legacy." I actually meant to ask whether that would not be the government in the administrative sense. I think he actually reacted very enthusiastically to that. I have now repeated the words 'with joy' for the third time, but not yet the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u30	Mr Rombouts knows how this is going: the government always provides building blocks for a new coalition agreement. It is then up to the parties to do something about it or not. It will undoubtedly be the case, for example, that the regional mayors do so. I think Mr Rombouts is right about that. I know their point of view, too. They'll report...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u31	Is the Minister going to do the same? That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u32	Oh, yeah. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u33	Will the Minister accept his responsibility by combining what the partners have to offer and saying what is wise at the very last stage of things, whatever cabinet comes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u34	We will certainly deliver our building blocks. Of course, I leave it to the parties in the field to deliver their building blocks. We will certainly bring them to the attention of the public when necessary. However, that is not something I will take over. Of course, it doesn't work that way. Mr Rombouts and I discussed my legacy in detail in the spring note. He asked me if I could pick up that legacy. Mr Rombouts is now creating this new legacy. I appreciate that. I have to take the legacy a little further. We have now ensured that there is a budget that provides structural funds for the services to do what we have agreed with them. There was an additional investment of 700 million structurally over two years and 1.7 billion in total. Part of this is occasional, partly as a result of the activities of the Secretary of State. I don't know if that's legacy. It is not for me to say anything about this either, but at least I think we have done our best to respond to Mr Rombouts' appeal. I've done it with joy. Thanks to Mr Ruers, I have also become the Minister of Finance. He asked me if I'd like to deal with the sovereign debt with him. I hardly consider myself capable of that. I would like to point out to Mr Ruers that my colleague in the Finance Committee would have pointed out to him that a windfall in the revenue framework does not necessarily mean that there is room for the expenditure framework. That is a rather basic idea in our state finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u35	One interruption, because I'm getting reports from downstairs about Christmas dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u36	The food is pinching, I understand from the chairman. So I have to be very brief. I know that view. I know that. However, there is one government with one budget. The government can decide what it does within that budget. If there is a windfall of 4 billion, it is not said that the 4 billion should be used to repay the public debt. You then make a political choice. That's a political choice I'd like to make to the Minister. It could have been decided to spend part of the money elsewhere. Minister Van der Steur is Minister within the government. He can discuss this together. He's got that political space. There is no law that forbids him from spending part of the money on, for example, V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u37	It is, of course, a little more complicated than that, but that is not what I am discussing. As I said, I hardly feel equipped to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u38	Keep it short, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u39	Five minutes, Mr. Chairman? I'll go soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u40	Max, max.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u41	I would like to thank Mr Ruers for his comment on the port of Rotterdam. I will discuss this in detail with the House of Representatives this week. I can see that the fight against organised crime always has its challenges. However, we can see that we have now seized 12,000 kilos of cocaine in the port of Rotterdam compared to I thought about 5,000 kilos last year. Mr Ruers says, for the Acts, that this is just a tip of the iceberg. It could be. At the same time, there is, of course, a huge effort on activities here. I shall then come to Mr Ruers' motion on the NVvR. It is of course up to the NVvR to determine how it organises its work. That means she can still give advice if she wants to. It's up to her to make a choice. She could also take other measures. That is also up to the NVvR. That doesn't affect the appreciation I have for the NVvR. However, I have to say that choices have to be made by the end of the day. You can't always make extra money available elsewhere. I note that in the Lower House too, a majority did not support the SP amendment on this point. A majority of the House of Representatives saw no reason to reverse this austerity. I would like to point out that the Council also has an independent function in the area of justice with regard to legislative advice. The D.A. has that job, too. These are the two organisations from which the members of the NVvR derive. It is therefore not the case that the case-law or the public prosecutor no longer has a vote because the NVvR no longer advises. That's really not the issue. This means that for two substantive reasons, but also because of the lack of coverage, I am not recommending the motion. There is no indication where money should come from. I can't help but dissuade uncovered motions. Mrs Strik missed in the debate that I said something positive about the judiciary. I believe that in the first and a half pages of my speech I made a very explicit statement on how I view the judiciary, its independence and its quality. I have said what the appreciation of the judiciary in society is like. It is not for me to respond to positions taken by politicians in the public debate, especially if those politicians themselves are then suspect in a criminal investigation. I won't respond to that either. As far as I am concerned, the quality of our rule of law and the quality of our judiciary are beyond doubt. I come to the criticism of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u42	I think we differ on this. If the judge has made a ruling and a politician or others make such a disqualifying remark about it, including the judges themselves, and if they really are attacking the judiciary themselves for judgment, then I think it is important that the Minister of Justice really stands up for that judiciary. This applies not only here, but also in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u43	That's what I did. I would like to refer Mrs Strik to the coverage on NU.nl, which was based on my response to BNR on the radio on that day. I have said once again that there is no doubt whatsoever about the quality and independence of our judiciary, that society appreciates the judiciary highly and that there was therefore no reason for criticism of the judiciary. That's how I talked about it. I've repeated that here. It is therefore wrong that I should not have said anything about this earlier. Mrs Strik asked about the General Court. Maybe it's okay if we put this in perspective. Last year's report by the Court of Auditors provided for fewer deficiencies, but one point had gone from an imperfection to a serious imperfection. That was the question of the planning and control cycle. As I said in the debate, I am hopeful that I will be able to take this away with the measures we have taken. We had already used them when the General Court came to the conclusion of this imperfection. That was because he didn't see the end result yet. That makes sense in a multiannual programme, but I understood why the General Court said so. I assume and hope that this will be even better in the coming round. I have indicated that the controllability of the department under V and J changes. I would like to thank Mrs Strik for her comments on legal aid. I think that's support for my policy. There will be more spending on legal aid next year than in the years before. I also follow all the opinions of the Wolfsen Committee. With regard to Mr Ruers' motion on the NVvR, I would like to point out that the impression should not be given that there is no subsidy to the NVvR. I would like to point out that for 2017 €655,000 will be made available to the NVvR, including €100,000 for housing costs that we made extra available for a problem that occurred last year. On this point, too, Mr Ruers could consider withdrawing his motion, which is not covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u44	I'm not asking for money in my motion at all. I'm asking for an investigation. So there is no need for coverage. I ask the government in my motion to investigate only.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u45	But of course I did. I can't make austerity proposals without research. We have chosen to make €655,000 available to the NVvR for 2017. There is €100,000 for housing, because this was a problem that needs to be solved. I'm willing to do that kind of thing. So I see 655,000 reasons to still discourage the motion. I understand from Mr Ruers' contribution that he is not withdrawing his motion. That is up to Mr Ruers. On behalf of the Secretary of State, I would like to thank the Chamber very warmly for the opportunity we have also had here to review the 2017 budget, with these structural improvements for the coming years. I would like to thank the Chamber for the sometimes critical but nevertheless constructive way in which it has been dealt with. I conclude by wishing you and yours an exceptionally enjoyable Christmas dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u46	An exceptionally enjoyable Christmas: that's very special. At a delightful Christmas, I can imagine something, but with exceptional satisfaction... Well, Minister, special!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u47	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-15.u48	Anybody want a note? That is not the case either. The motion shall be put to the vote at the end of the sitting. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
