ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u1	I welcome Secretary of State Dekker of Education, Culture and Science. A number of speakers have come forward. They have a short time to table a motion and then make one final point. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mrs Siderius of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We discussed the VMBO, including the idea of extending the VMBO for a year. The SP would like to extend the vmbo for two years, which is why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that young people with a VMBO diploma do not have access to entry training, whereas some of these pupils are not yet ready, socially emotionally, to take the step towards MBO training at level 2 and could use the intermediate stage of entry training to become more resilient and mature;]] [[Whereas direct placement of these young people at MBO level will cause two disappointments and also increase the risk of early school leaving;]] [[considers that the gap between VMBO and MBO for pupils with a vulnerable profile should be closed;]] [[In exploring the extension of VMBO, the Government also calls on the possibility of a six-year training course in a VMBO setting to obtain a starting qualification with one pedagogical-didactic concept, one team with VMBO and MBO teachers, in a small-scale setting under one roof, to explore further,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30079-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u3	Another point we discussed with the Secretary of State is the financing of the technical profiles in VMBO. I shall table the following motion for a resolution on this subject, which is very brief. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate adequate funding for technical profiles in VMBO and to report the results to the Chamber before 1 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30079-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. We had a good discussion on vocational education, on VMBO. The CDA Group does not need to look immediately at extending that vmbo period to five or even six years. The CDA sees that many young people flourish when they focus more on professional practice. In the Secretary of State, we have found someone who looks at it in a calm and steady way, and I welcome that once again. I call on the Secretary of State to look in particular at ways in which we can strengthen the VMBO itself rather than immediately look at expanding the number of years taught. We have talked about the links between VMBO and MBO. The Secretary of State is going to jail, for which I am grateful. We have talked about training in practice so that this occupational component can be further strengthened. This can also be done in the vmbo without directly expanding the number of years. I would like to touch on these points once again and wish the Secretary of State every success in the work which we are looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State says that the conversion to really hard technical profiles in the coming school year is not that bad. The Christian Union is afraid not, but there is no point in arguing about it now. In the autumn we get a report on the state of the transformation to the wider profiles. However, it is certain that in the years to come the technical VMBO will become even more dangerous because of its shrinkage, the fact that the number of pupils who opt for the technical VMBO will not increase. That is why we would like to see OCW follow the trend of the number of VMBO technology departments, so that we can intervene in good time if a region is in danger of losing its hard technical profiles. That's a lot better than the method "when the calf drowned." I therefore ask for strong direction from the Secretary of State on this point. I have no further motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. It is good that, under the watchful eye of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, we can have this debate on such an important sector in our education. It is a pity that we cannot give more thought to this. Anyway, I have one motion. It is on a subject that I have raised on a number of occasions. Those are the many teachers in the sub-structure-vmbo who are pabo-educated, since until recently they were allowed to teach, but now they are not allowed to do so anymore. That's what I'm worried about, especially the students. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that previously teachers with a pabo diploma were also competent to teach the VMBO curriculum, but that is no longer the case;]] [[Whereas these teachers are capable of doing this, and also facilitates the flow and career opportunities of teachers with a pabo diploma;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that teachers with a pabo diploma are given the right to return to teaching in VMBO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30079-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. It is good to conclude the debate here today, which was very substantive and constructive in the committee, because I think we are all in favour of a very strong and recognizable VMBO, if only because more than half of the pupils in secondary education go to VMBO. At the same time, I fully agree with Mr Rog, who says that we must be careful not, if we are to make some improvements, for example with the organisation of more recognizable profiles, toss the whole thing over again while that is going on. At the same time, a number of reports have been published asking for a number of things to be explored. That is not anticipating a major reform or a major change in the system. I see that much more as a call not to stop thinking. It is good to see how we will proceed in the future. Three motions have been tabled. The motion-Siderius in part No. 65 asks the government to include in this exploration the possibility for a six-year training course in VMBO. I believe I have already promised that I will take a possible extension, as long as it is not generic. I can imagine that this is appropriate for some children, but perhaps not for all children. There are also 16-year-olds who really want to go to the MBO. I get the impression that this motion is prioritizing a generic measure. In that case, I'd like to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u8	The operative part doesn't contain the word "generic," so I don't know where the Secretary of State gets it from. All this motion asks is whether the Secretary of State, if he's going to explore, will take this opportunity. Indeed, it is not the solution for all students. In part, students want to do vmbo-t, followed by the MBO. There has to be that possibility. The question is to explore this and see how you can ensure that in the system, because that is what the Secretary of State is going to do for that other variant of extending the vmbo to five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u9	I have also indicated that I am not going to explore this generically. But if Mrs Siderius says that this is not her intention either and that she wants the option to be there for certain vulnerable children who are not yet ready to take the step towards a large rocket, by analogy with the vm2 journey, as happens in a number of places in the Netherlands, then I would be able to get away with it. With this interpretation, I can even take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u10	I see Mrs. Siderius nodding. The Secretary of State proposes that a motion be taken. I'll look around the room and see if there's any objection. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u11	It is quite a day for me, because I am also going to make Mrs Siderius' second motion in part No. Sixty-six take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u12	Are you going to say a few words about it? Or can I just see if the Chamber doesn't mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u13	Many questions have been asked about the financing of technical training courses. We are in the process of modernising that funding. This must be done in such a way that the new funding model is also in line with what you have really lost to your education. Mr Bruins has already discussed this in detail. I think it is right that we should just include this in the conversations we are having with the schools this autumn to really look at the case level exactly where it is pinching. We can come back to that at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u14	I shall look formally at whether there is any objection to the adoption of Mrs Siderius' motion for a resolution on item No. 66. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u15	I shall now come to Mr Van Meenen's motion on item No. 67. That's a motion that needs a little more explanation. What Mr Van Meenen means, in my view, is that anyone with a pabo diploma should be automatically qualified without any further training or further training to teach VMBO, a competence that does not exist now. If that is the thrust of this motion, I would like and should advise against it. Because I think these people are doing a very good job, but employers, professional groups and teacher training indicate that these people still need some extras. They are in the process of developing tailor-made pathways to ensure that that competence is made available. If this is a motion asking for a general's pardon, I'm against it. I think that is what Mr Van Meenen means. I asked schools, employers and professional groups to come up with a plan after the summer to help these teachers with modules or tailor-made courses in teacher training towards competence as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u16	This debate has been going on for years. For years, I've heard from the Secretary of State that modules are being worked on, and you name it all. But there's nothing yet. Meanwhile, these experienced people are working to great satisfaction in the schools. It also has a very large educational purpose, because these people take care of different subjects, sometimes four or five, so that the pupils in the substructure of VMBO have to deal with only relatively few teachers and it becomes a very recognizable and familiar environment for them. That's what's important. If you want to go through with this, then one of these teachers might have to get an extra degree in four or five subjects. That's really not possible. I understand the theoretical framework from which, including those mentioned, is based, but certainly for the group of experienced teachers with a pabo-diploma who have been working satisfactorily in that education for years, I would like a general pardon. For new cases, we can wait and see what is still useful. However, this gives rise to a great deal of uncertainty, including among school boards, because the date on which these people lose their responsibilities and thus, in the long term, their jobs is approaching with raging strides. So this is about the experienced teachers who have been doing this for a number of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u17	I share Mr Van Meenen's view that we need to find a solution to this problem. I do not agree with him when he says that the date of these people's loss of power is getting closer and closer. These people are not now competent and we need to ensure that they are quickly empowered. I have been promised by the employers, the profession and the teachers that after the summer they will come up with a concrete plan on how this can be done in a reasonable way. This does not mean that they must have completed four second-degree teacher training courses. In any case, it will require tailor-made work, but it will also require an extra commitment from the teachers who now have a pabo degree and do good work. But also from a pedagogical and didactic point of view, pupils in the vocational training system are different from pupils in primary education. You may ask a little more from these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u18	The student who is 12 years old and is still in primary school on 30 June did not suddenly become a completely different person on 1 September. That's the same student who still has the same needs. I agree with the Secretary of State that these teachers are not now entitled to do so in my motion too, but that is purely because of decisions we have taken here. There has also been a period when they were competent, that they could participate fully with all the consigns we add. That's not true anymore, and I want it to be. That's what I'm saying for the sake of those kids. We do not agree, we can, and that is why I am tabling a motion to change government policy. You will excuse me, Mr President, because that is what motions are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u19	Of course not. I heard the Secretary of State didn't advise her. Does the Secretary of State still need to draw a conclusion or can we conclude with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u20	I do not know whether Mr Van Meenen and I agree. This is a debate that has been held before. At the time, when determining jurisdiction, the Chamber said that a pabo-power for primary school was not sufficient. You can come back to that. That is a political decision, but that political decision was of course also taken at the time. At that time it was said that teaching secondary education is different from teaching primary school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u21	Can I have another one, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u22	The debate is not supposed to be over. You may want to try to convince the Secretary of State, but I'm afraid that's not gonna work. But if you want to correct one more point before the votes, we still have some time to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u23	The argument that politics has decided something in the past is never such a strong argument. I myself taught in the foundation of the VMBO. Speaking from that experience, it is my belief that the teaching skills, the skills to differentiate are much more important than a competence. We devoted about half a debate yesterday to this major problem in education. Then we are going to say to the group that can do the very best in the whole of secondary education: the fact that you have not achieved a competence at top level in terms of content for all those different subjects you give, is now going to mean that you still have to do so. That's what I'm really resisting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u24	I still feel the need to respond to this one last time. I don't think anyone wants to lose these people, but both the employers and the professional group themselves are the teachers, of whom we all want to get a bigger stake in discussions about the training, which means to carry out your course and so on and so on, and teacher training all say: these are valuable people, but in the field of education you just need something extra on top of your pabo. That is why I think we should consider whether we should put that aside or whether we should also listen to the people in education themselves. I prefer to do the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u25	The bell's ringing, so that means we're ready for the next VAO.
