ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party has taken note with approval of the objective of this bill to limit the rent and thereby protect the affordability of the social rental sector. In addition, the draft law aims to promote the flow of the rental market. In particular, the Labour Party has further questions about that last part. It intends to finalize its assessment on the basis of the Minister's replies. The objective of the rent-sum approach is fine: to bring more price and quality into line. In particular, the large difference between the price-quality ratio of houses that often change residents and those where the same residents continue to live for many years can be reduced by the cost-of-hire approach. In the first case the rent of houses can be increased at once in the case of new rentals, in the second case the annual maximum rates apply. With the rent-based approach, a corporation can and must make a clear trade-off between harmonising a few houses and a general rent increase in many homes. The proposal to reasonably limit the rent increase for homes with a rent above 80% of the maximum rent to inflation and for homes with a rent below 80% the maximum rent with inflation plus 2,5% also contributes to the improvement of the value for money. With the rent sum approach, the final picture comes closer that for homes with the same quality, the same rental price can also be charged. We support the possibility offered by the law to differentiate this percentage at local/regional level, because the current picture of the value for money and the market situation varies from region to region, and hence the desire and need to achieve greater balance within the region. The effect on rental development gives a differentiated picture. On the one hand, the proposed development of the total rent with inflation plus 1% as a ceiling is modest compared to the total rent increases in recent years, and on the other hand, given the austere income development of the target group, an inflation-related rental policy is more likely. Given the importance of the affordability of living in the cities, this is our preferred option. In short, the proposal reduces the rent increase, albeit modestly, and the effects vary considerably according to, among other things, housing situation and income. The proposal not to apply the rent-based approach to the private rental sector continues to raise questions, partly because of the argument used. It is true that corporations have a social mission and private landlords do not. At the same time, the private sector is indispensable for housing part of the target population of people with lower incomes. Urban and regional policies take this into account, inter alia, when determining the desired size of the affordable stock. More rental space in the private sector has, among other things, a negative impact on the expenditure on rent surcharge. This is also a reason why the private sector should also seek a similar rent-sum approach in the future. How can the Minister, in consultation with the umbrella organisations for private rental, offer openings for a more convergent, coherent approach? I'll be on the subject of temporary rental. The aim of the bill is also to give landlords more opportunities to use real estate more flexibly and to respond to the growing need for temporary housing. Properties providers have asked for the possibility of temporary rental to be extended. These include people who, as a result of divorce, are looking for temporary housing, people who have taken up a job elsewhere in the country and people who come from detention or social care. Private landlords have indicated that they shudder to offer rental homes for fear of concluding an indefinite lease. Especially smaller private landlords do not dare to rent now according to the Minister. In the recent Wonen report, the Environment and Infrastructure Council has changed the flexible shell of house seekers for whom a mortgage is unreachable, saying that the waiting times for a social rental house are too large and too long and the private rental house too expensive. Alternatives are temporary rental contracts, sub-rentals, housing division and anti-cracking. This increases the housing capacity of the housing stock in the big cities, according to the RLI. There are therefore several options for temporary rental. The bill also lists this. This certainly seems to be needed in cities with a growing group of "flooding" inhabitants. However, the temporary forms of contract and the new termination grounds will confront tenants more often than is currently the case with forced relocation. It can be concluded from answers to the questions raised in the written procedure that the commercial rental sector does not have any obligation to absorb streamers from the social rental sector. The fear of the Labour Party is that only increasing the innumerable capacity of the existing stock is considered sufficient. Increasing the housing stock for tenants through temporary leases is a good thing if this can help people to find a suitable and affordable home after a temporary lease. Tenants, sub-contractors, anti-crackers and housing dealers do not get along very well with mandatory periodic housing exchanges. What they are looking for is sufficient accommodation. This means that in every housing market region there is a sufficient perspective both inside and outside the social rental sector on a home in which you can also, if desired, stay indefinitely. The Minister's replies in the reply indicate that the extent and development of the new offer of accommodation through temporary leases is at least unclear. The constitutional task for the government, namely the provision of sufficient housing, thus remains without prejudice to a mission. Will the Minister explain his priorities for the deployment of sufficient housing? Can the Minister explain in particular to what extent his efforts to interest pension institutions and banks in investing in the rental market, especially in the segment between €700 and €1000, have been successful? In the light of these considerations, the question arises as to how far the importance of flow can be combined with restrictions to avoid the widespread application of temporary leases in the commercial rental sector. Today's rent protection is built up with a lot of commitment and social dialogue. Both the Minister and the majority in the Lower House took the view that rental agreements should remain the norm for the existing stock for an indefinite period. That's a good point of view. The Labour Party is aware that corporations are obliged to provide annual data to the Authority housing corporations. This will provide an in-depth understanding of their performance and results and will make it possible to verify whether the lease remains the norm in the social rental sector for an indefinite period. In the light of the fact that these obligations do not apply to the commercial rental sector, questions have been asked in the written procedure in order to understand the way in which the flexibilisation of rentals is to be monitored across the board. The answers given in the reply do not entirely reassure. The main targeted tool in the free rental sector will be the sample. This seems insufficient as a tool for a new market in development and a market without a supervisor. We would like to call for a comprehensive monitoring of the effects of this bill. Can the Minister provide us with an insight into the scientific reliability of the use of the tool sample? The Minister also refers in his reply to the annual State of the Housing Market, which also reflects developments in stock size, price development and rental harmonisation in the private sector. However, the State of the housing market gives only one picture of the main features and is therefore completely incomparable with the insight that the corporations offer. In order to avoid an undesirable displacement in the private sector, we would like the Minister to keep an eye on the development of the market for temporary leases. We ask for an annual report, with the aim of obtaining an in-depth understanding of the various segments within the private rental market, to monitor that contracts for an indefinite period in the existing rental stock will indeed remain the norm. We also call for the willingness to impose restrictions if the share of contracts were to be threatened indefinitely. I would like to hear the Minister's position on this. A special case of a niche in the private rental market is the short-stay contracts of university institutions and colleges. Guaranteed housing goes together with the attractiveness of the Netherlands as an educational country. Short stays, however, are kept to the duration of the contract. The right of interim termination does not seem to be so effective here. Can the Minister indicate to what extent he can respond to the demands of the educational institutions? We are curious about the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The social rental sector must be accessible to all those who cannot afford a roof over their heads on their own. Those who look at waiting times, at the shortage of housing in the middle-priced segment and talk about it because they would like to live elsewhere, where, for example, there is work, but then simply reconnecting behind the queue of people looking for housing, are well aware that the minister must work on the flow and therefore come up with a proposal. At the same time, the flow must be limited to those groups for which it is desirable or appropriate. It is logical that students and PhD students look after other accommodations after some time. It is good that people with an income that gives a view of a property in the buying sector no longer reside in the rental sector, but rather make room for others. With this constructive approach, my group has looked at this bill. However, it should be noted that having a home, of a permanent place where one is rooted and part of the community, is different from buying a random consumer goods. Fortunately, in the Netherlands, the fixed rental contract is the norm. Temporary facilities are the exception and the Christian Union group likes to keep it that way. Partly for this reason, I have a number of questions with regard to the legislative proposal before us. But first of all, I would like to make a comment on the composition of this law. It contains independent quantities: the rental sum approach and the measures relating to temporary rental. Now the linking of independent business that both have to do with rent already has old papers. Even the Drees cabinet tried that in 1955 with a rent increase and a tax cut. The cabinet fell, the chamber didn't agree to the link. Later the coalition was glued and everything worked out. But when it comes to renting and linking topics, the minister is a warned man. Of course, the legislative proposal before us today is different in scope, but the difficulty of merging parts that have an independent place in the law and have a separate function in the rental market, subjects where the political support for one is actually different from that for the other, is uncomfortable. I would remind the Minister once again of the Hoekstra motion which this Chamber has adopted in order to limit such links. I would like to have a more firm reaction and reflection on this merger than has been the case so far in the written reply. Let me now turn to the content of the bill. The fraction of the Christian Union can broadly agree to the introduction of the rent-based approach. It is good that Aedes and the Housing Union have reached an agreement on this point and that the Minister has worked it out. The Minister argues in this regard that precisely the whole of the law will help to counter the distortion of living. In the Ministry's three-yearly housing survey presented last Thursday under the name WoON 2015, the Christian Union Group included a number of issues that led to reflection. The number of cheap crooks has decreased, but the number of expensive crooks has increased rapidly. Both were at approximately the same level by the end of 2015, both at about half a million. The fact that the number of cheap skewers is decreasing is of course a good thing, but the fact that the number of expensive skewers is rising about the same rate is a real concern. Apparently, the increase in the rent surcharge does not keep up with the increase in the rents for this group. Have cheap and expensive living crooked become communicative vessels? I look forward to the Minister's explanation on this point. Is the rent-sum approach, as proposed in this bill, going to help to reverse the rise in the number of expensive skews? Or could it even have negative consequences? What is on the Minister's way to tackle this problem? What possibilities does he see? It doesn't seem like an easy problem to solve, even because newly built social housing is almost never going to be part of the really cheap category of social housing. In short, the range of social rentals varies. How does the Minister see this? Is there enough room to provide sufficient supply of cheap social housing in the coming years? It cannot be intended that a law on the lease market eventually leads to a flow of too many cheap skeptics to ultimately too many expensive skeptics. The housing survey also shows a significant difference in the net housing ratio between buyers and tenants. For both groups, household income has fallen over the years, but buyers and homeowners have managed to reduce their net housing ratio over the past three years, thanks mainly to the lower mortgage interest rate and to new entrants' lower prices, while the net housing ratio for tenants has increased to 36% during the same period. The most important part, the rent ratio itself, has even increased by almost 3%. How does the Minister assess this difference between the buyers and the tenants on the one hand and the housing ratio on the other? What does the bill mean in this respect? How does he prevent the housing quote for tenants from rising further and does he have ambitions to bring it down again? Thirdly, in the Ministry's investigation, it is noted that the percentage of rentals of private landlords with a rent above the liberalisation limit in six years grew from 28 to 36. At the same time, tension in the free rental sector has increased further. Given the rent policy since the housing agreement, but especially in view of the flexibility of the labour market, this is a logical development. This development ensures that the demand for medium-cost rentals between the liberalisation limit and say €1,000 per month continues to increase significantly. In my group's view, therefore, the real solution for the middle-priced rental segment is to build, build, build. In the written round, my group asked about the offer of new rental homes in this affordable segment. In his reply, the Minister mentioned Capital Value's study which states that in 2016 EUR 5.5 billion is available for investments in new rental homes. That's an impressive amount. However, it was not yet an exact answer to the question. What can the Minister say about the distribution of investments between the various segments and price classes in the market, and in particular those relating to the class just above the liberalization limit? The above investigation concludes that investments in the purchasing sector are improving. Whether the number of social housing units is increasing is, however, very much the question. The study even states that there is insufficient additional building in the rental sector. That gives cause for concern. I would therefore like to hear a more precise answer to my question than was given in the written reply. I would like to go into the matter of temporary contracts. In the written preparation for this debate, the Christian Union Group has pointed out the risk of displacement of leases for an indefinite period through temporary contracts. In spite of the cost disadvantages for landlords of temporary contracts, the risk of displacement is not imaginary. Flexibility for the landlord also represents a value. That is precisely why my group asked how the Minister would monitor this risk of displacement. It has undertaken not only to include this risk in the five-yearly review of the law, but also to monitor it in the interim through the request from authorised institutions in the context of BTIV and through a sample of private landlords. Thank you for this commitment. In addition to this commitment, I would ask the Minister to pay explicit attention to the provision of information to this Chamber, not only in the five-year review, but also in the context of interim monitoring. In addition, I am curious how tenants are dealt with in complexes that one would like to point out for student or PhD candidates contracts. I assume tenants will continue to be covered by the old legal regime, if the lease agreement is concluded before the temporary contract possibilities became law. Can the Minister confirm that? I would also like to draw attention to the next evaluation point. The Housing Act provides that the temporary increase in the income limit for the allocation of rentals from authorised establishments with a regulated rental contract to about €39,000 after five years is automatically reduced to about €35,000. This could have major income consequences for this income group, all the more so since this group is not entitled to rent payments and cannot simply go to the market or to the free rental sector. However, the Minister replied to my group's questions about the consequences of this, and said that it is not yet certain that the income limit for the higher rent increase will be reduced again after five years. Can the Minister confirm that this aspect is explicitly part of the review of the law and that any reduction can only be made after that evaluation? How does this relate to the principle previously stated that this would happen automatically? I would like to hear a clarification and a commitment. In examining Mrs Schouten's own-initiative proposal on youth contracts, the Christian Union Group has already made it difficult to extend the concept of "urgent self-use." A landlord may cancel the rent for urgent personal use. There are all kinds of safeguards and the judge checks them out. Over the years, for example, the campus contract has been placed under this article of law. The same route is now proposed for PhD students and large families. The first group is fair, because it uses the same logic as the student and youth contracts. But big families are a whole different group. They benefit from being rooted in the neighborhood. What problem does the Minister really solve with this? The size of the group is small. In their response to this bill, the municipalities explicitly state that they do not see any benefit in it. They refer precisely to customization, which can be offered in the congregation and which they expect much more salvation from. On this point, the House of Representatives has now filed the sharp edges of the proposal. However, my group still feels that adding this target group is not sufficiently substantiated. In addition, this undesirable behavior helps, for example, that children stay home longer to keep the place for the younger children. And what if a family asks grandparents or other family members to move in to keep the house? How is it handled? Doesn't this work the opposite way? It is a gain that replacement housing should be offered, but my group would like to have the assurance that this is at least in the same area in the case of underage children. Moreover, I would also like to hear from the Minister on this point whether this really solves a problem. How's he gonna map that? With regard to the possibility of temporary rental of independent living space for up to five years, this can certainly offer a solution in the short term. Everyone knows successful examples of this rental. The question, however, is where we stand in five years' time. Then it should not be the case that the people who have found a roof over their heads for five years will end up in something similar again for a period of five years. Moreover, this must also be available. It is logical that the advent of many new status holders should seek practical solutions, which do not unnecessarily lead to the displacement of others who have long been waiting for a home. However, it is short-sighted to think that this will solve the problem, because after five years, the world will probably go even further. I would like to hear the Minister's perspective on this point. The law should promote the flow of the rental market. There is a need to achieve it, because the average waiting time in the social rental sector has now been around eight years. What is the dot on the horizon for the Minister following the adoption of this bill? Does he have any idea which part of the waiting party is registered for security and which part really needs a home? I continue to find that difficult with the current long waiting times. It's a point that keeps asking for reflection. The Christian Union Group prefers separate legislative proposals when it comes to individual issues. That is also the case here. We regret that the legislative proposal combines this. While we are dealing with this bill, we support the legal regulation of the rent-sum approach, but we have questions about any undesirable effects it may have. With the adjustments in the temporary rental we have more trouble. The main route must remain that a fixed contract is the norm. That is precisely why the bill cuts when it comes to large families. I have put questions to the Minister on all these points, and I look forward to his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. We write February 13, 2013. In Nieuwspoort four satisfied men are sitting at the table, namely Minister Blok, and Mr Pechtold, Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij. They're presenting the housing agreement. Today we are discussing one of the last parts of it. Since the bill is in line with what was agreed at the time in the housing agreement, I am not going to go into all kinds of details now. I would just like to focus on an important point for the SGP group, related to an important objective of this law, which is to address the problem of skews, including issues such as flow, rent-based approach and income-dependent rent increases. To get a good grip on the crooked living, an income test is used to determine the rent increase. If a property is rented, appropriate to the income, then the rent increase in line with the already accepted bill will result in inflation plus 1%. If you rent too cheap, the rent increase becomes inflation plus 4%. So far, it's completely clear. A few exceptions are then made. For example, the income test does not appear to be a good means for pensioners, because they cannot easily pass through the limited possibilities for a housing mortgage. Another explicitly mentioned group is that of multi-person households. To avoid families with two or more children, the income-dependent higher rent increase does not apply to households of four or more persons. For them, the Minister provides problems. The Nibud publishes exemplary budgets for different types of households. From this it can be concluded that for larger multi-person households with an income around €39,000, the spending space is more limited than for single people. That makes sense, because a single person only has to take care of himself, while in multi-person households there are four or more people. The group of the SGP is also content with the emphasis on larger families. Good thing this exception is included in the law. Something's coming up. It does indicate that the choice for a group excluded is not only the household income of a decisive nature, but also the spending area. I understood when interrupting, also from Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Schouwenaar, that it is good to look at more components and to allow them to be weighed down and not just the disposable income. In between, a question. If, in addition to household income, one income group also looks at the spending area, is it not fair to do so in other income groups as well? Let me make a comparison where there is a much greater difference in the level of spending space. Think of two similar households, two couples with a child, where one couple earns €39,000 as a two-earner, and the other family the same amount, but only by the husband or wife, as a earner. In this case, the additional rent increase of inflation plus 4%, based on the income test, can be applied in both families. However, disposable income is absolutely disproportionate. Because now I come to my point: what is the case: two earners who make €40,000 together do not yet pay a €2,000 tax. Their disposable income is therefore €38,000. I'd say these two earners are cheap crooks. The single earner who earns €40,000 pays almost €10,000 tax and thus does not yet have a €30,000 disposable income. I'd say that one-earner is an expensive crook. But both get a rent increase of inflation plus 4%. The strongest works this through with the single earner and the two earners who earn exactly the same amount. However, the problem also arises in the case of two-earners, especially if they do not earn exactly fifty-fifty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u4	Maybe I'll speak for my turn, then I'll hear it, but what is the conclusion from this further impressive speech? Will Mr Schalk from now on measure net incomes to see if someone is making too much money, or does he think that the limit of €39,000 is far too low, because there are many examples of households with a net income of €40,000 that do not have that much left at all? Then he would agree with our group, but which way does Mr Schalk intend to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u5	Thanks for the compliment, but my conclusion is that determining the border only on the basis of a gross income seems too rigid to me. Let me repeat what I have already said. The strongest works this through with the single earner and the two earners who earn exactly the same amount. However, the problem also arises in the case of two-earners, especially if they do not earn exactly fifty-fifty. Again the calculation: if the two earners both earn €20,000, they do not yet pay a €2,000 tax. With a distribution of €30,000-€10,000 they already pay almost €6,500 tax. Here too, they are going to pay inflation plus 4%, while the disposable income is also absolutely incomparable in this case. In short, calculations based on gross income are deceptive, I say in the direction of Mr Köhler. This is because different systems are used by the government. Taxes are based on individual income, on rents we use family income. However, the tax already paid is not taken into account, i.e. gross income versus net income. As a result, a earner is counted as rich for the rental market as two-earners. And all the two-earers are shaved in the same way. Does the Minister agree with this analysis, namely that, in the case of an equal income per household, this could lead to a different situation with regard to the skewing? This brings me to a motion adopted by this Chamber at the General Reviews on 13 October 2015, in which the government was asked to reduce the substantial differences between one earner and two earners. That motion did not explicitly mention this difference in the area of the housing market, because we could not know that at the time. But it is clear from the operative part that precisely where these differences occur, the government should intervene. How is the Minister going to apply this Chamber's desire to reduce the substantial differences in the specific area of the income test in relation to the rent increases? Because the problem is broader than only the single-earners, namely also between two-earners, I also ask the question for the whole of the tenants: is there a solution conceivable, in which those who are in fact expensive crooks are not treated as cheap crooks? This problem also continues in a different way. The system also has implications for the possibilities of joining the social rental sector. After all, the flow of the rental market is aimed at getting the tenants into the right rental homes. But again this is based on household income and not on disposable income. The single-earner, or the disproportionate two-earner, is eligible only for a dwelling for which his disposable income may not be sufficient. So it's got to be expensive to rent. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would very much like to see a solution to this problem. For the short term, the Civil Code Book 7, Article 252a, paragraph 6 may offer a solution direction. It states that exceptions can be made under ministerial rules. Is it possible, on the basis of Article 252a (6) of the Ministerial Regulation, to make an exception for income groups affected by significant differences in the tax burden? And if that's possible, is the Minister prepared to do so? That would be a good solution for the short term. In the long term, it could be a solution based on post-tax income. The problem would then be solved on both sides, both by joining the rental sector and by determining the rent increase. Does the Minister also see this as an option worth investigating, so that in future the rent-based approach takes place in a more appropriate, more balanced way, taking into account the difference in tax burden and thus the spending space for the different income groups? In all appreciation of this bill, this is still an important point of attention for the SGP group. I am therefore waiting with interest for the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. The lack of flow on the rental market has been a problem for years. Few will deny that. The PVV does not in itself object to the government trying to do something about this by helping people in a social housing unit to flow through. However, the way in which this law seeks to promote the flow of information is encountering a number of fundamental objections. First of all, because it is a completely unfair system. A person who lives in a social housing unit and who makes a career through very hard work and thus earns more is penalised for his ambition and success with a big rent increase, until he is tired of paying it or can't afford it anymore and leaving the social housing unit to flow through. But by flowing to what, anyway? Where are these people supposed to go? A property for sale will be unfeasible for most people, but there are hardly any middle-class rentals. If there were, and varied in supply, in our opinion, more people would flow on their own. Transit should take place on a voluntary basis and not with the knife on the throat. There should be no punishment for success and hard work. Every time we talk about the social housing market, there is a giant elephant in the Chamber that the other parties are looking away from. As the last speaker in the first term, I shall therefore re-appoint it. It makes no sense to talk about measures to improve the flow in the social housing market if you do not want to talk about the influx. This year, the municipalities will have to house some 23,000 asylum seekers with a residence permit, the so-called status holders. Despite their efforts, this is not possible, because the houses are simply not there. In some regions there are waiting lists of more than ten years for a social housing unit. But this cabinet is unbearable: if the municipalities fail to provide 23,000 status holders with a home this year, that will be on top of the same number for next year. Moreover, this cabinet refuses to close the borders. In doing so, it is responsible for an unprecedented asylum invasion. The cabinet takes into account a new supply of asylum seekers of no less than 92,000 per year. A substantial part of this will be granted a residence permit and thus the right to a home. That is the real reason why hardworking Dutch people are bullied out of their social housing with rent increases: they have to make way for asylum seekers with a residence permit. And they must give their place in the asylum centre back to a new asylum seeker. Don't let the minister come back with that sales pitch about semi-permanent homes he's going to set up for status holders so that they won't push the rest of the people on the waiting lists, the converted nursing homes, the office buildings and the residential containers that would rise everywhere. How many such properties have already been realized? I don't suspect much bar. There are at least too few of them, because there is no way to build up against such an asylum system. Moreover, the Dutch citizens have now been warned. They're resisting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u7	I have some difficulty with the link between the income-dependent rent increase and the migration problem. When we decided here on the income-dependent rent increase, there was not yet any mention of the migration movements of the year that Mrs Van Weerdenburg is talking about. Besides, I haven't seen it in any of the pieces. I myself am in favour of the income-dependent rent increase. I mentioned the reasons for this. There was no hidden agenda or that it was actually about status holders. I would like to repeat the reasons, because I think it is very valid and very good: a. an incentive to flow, not being a punishment for hard work and success, and b. a contribution to rent income, so that there can be added. Those are the people we care about: the people looking for homes who are always and all the way in the back of the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u8	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u9	Then you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u10	Moreover, the Dutch citizens have now been warned. They're resisting. They are alert to municipal decision-making and they object massively to the arrival of asylum seekers in their surroundings. That will be no different in the housing of status holders. So it's not gonna happen with those dumpster apartments. This law will not lead our tenants to a substantial flow into the social housing market. The only thing that passes through the Netherlands is the uncontrolled flow of asylum seekers, who will put such immense pressure on the already tight social housing market, which we fear will collapse underneath. In doing so, the law we are discussing today is nothing more than a symptom reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u11	Mrs Van Weerdenburg uses the term "asyleisers" a number of times where she refers to "asyleisers." Why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u12	There's no reason for that. We call that asylum seekers. When you see the footage of some people who think they have a right to everything, we call it asylum seekers. But it comes down to the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-7.u13	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
