ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend the mosque community in Enschede was confronted with an attack with a molotov cocktail. There were people at the mosque at that time. There were children in the building. Luckily, no one got hurt and the killer was arrested. He was arrested; for this tribute to the attentive citizens and the neighborhood residents of the mosque. Also from the neighborhood there has been a lot of support for the mosque community. The people of the mosque community I spoke to could appreciate that very much. That's how it is in a civilization. There is solidarity for security and freedom. Yet the mosque community is in shock, so I was told in Enschede. Muslims across the country are afraid. This is evident from the e-mails, the texts and the calls I get from all over the Netherlands. That's not that crazy, because the week before the weekend with the molotov cocktail there was mail delivered at many mosques. That was a flyer with a Nazi symbol: a very aggressive eagle with a Nazi hook cross. In that flyer it was announced that something was going to happen and that seemed to be it. So there is every reason for fear and a sense of insecurity in that community. And that on the day of the February strike! I would like to compliment the Jewish community, which is being heavily protected at the moment. The Jewish community also expressed its support for and concerns about the Moroccan Islamic community. The Council of Moroccan Mosques Netherlands was right to talk about this. Can the Minister indicate how he points out these incidents? In fact, they are no longer incidents: this seems to be of a more structural nature. What measures has the Minister taken to track down the perpetrators and to prevent such incidents? Has the Minister discussed this with the Islamic community?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Marcouch for raising this issue today. On behalf of the government, I say that violence against and threats against Muslims and Islamic houses of prayer is unacceptable. Every incident at a prayer house, regardless of any belief, causes people to be touched in the exercise of their faith and that affects every Dutchman. I therefore distance myself from that in the most powerful way. Mr Marcouch rightly says that in Enschede a bottle of flammable liquid was thrown towards a mosque where believers, including children, were present at that time. That is a very, very serious incident that I strongly condemn. At the same time, Mr Marcouch says that several mosques have received pamphlets in the last week which have posed serious threats to those mosques. Unfortunately, I have to confirm that. It is very important that those who are guilty of sowing fear, threats and even violence are tracked down and punished. Fortunately, a suspect has been apprehended on suspicion of attempted arson. The criminal investigation is under way, so Mr Marcouch will understand that I cannot go into that. I fully understand the concerns in the Muslim community about these incidents. That is why Mr Asscher, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, and I myself, intend to have a personal exchange of views with representatives of the Muslim community this week. First of all, the government wants them to know how it stands with regard to these forms of violence against mosques, namely that it rejects them and finds them unacceptable. The government also wants to know that the Muslim community can count on the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. They will ensure effective and active detection, prosecution and, if possible, trial. At the same time, we want to talk to the communities about their security concerns. Of course, the local approach is paramount in this context, but the government is in close consultation with the local authority to see what is needed. Something like this always takes place on the basis of a threat risk and an analysis. One thing is certain: if security is necessary, it will be able to be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u3	Over the past four or five years, there have been more than 200 violent incidents against mosques. One time it was a pig's head at the door of a mosque and the other time it was a fireworks bomb against a window. The mosque in Enschede was also targeted for several years. Because of the flyer, it now looks like this is organized. Does the Minister have the same idea? Is the Minister prepared to investigate that? It seems that what started as a kind of resistance against newcomers, has now become a resistance against people who are just Dutch and here confess their faith. It is an attack, an attack on the freedom and security of all of us. I think the Minister should do more than talk. He also needs to see who's behind it, if it's organized and if he has enough knowledge and skills. That's the government's job. I notice that a lot of police desk staff simply send people away when they want to report violence. Or such an attack on a mosque is simply dismissed as arson while it is more than that. It's discriminatory violence. Can the Minister respond to that? It is important, however, that we keep an eye on what we are talking about and that the Minister responds to this kind of hate speech as structured as the hatred itself is organised. I hope he's doing even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u4	I can assure Mr Marcouch to a great extent on that point, I think. There is now a criminal investigation into the origin of the pamphlets received by several mosques last week. The Public Prosecutor considers that what is depicted on that flyer under Articles 137c and 137d of the Criminal Code to be criminal. The police and the Public Prosecutor are acting decisively against this. I cannot, of course, make any further comments on the content, because it is an ongoing criminal case. I can report that there will be one national criminal investigation into the pamphlets, because the D.A. and the police are seriously considering the same sender. Various places, including The Hague, Limburg, Central Netherlands and Rotterdam, have now also been reported of threats by means of this pamphlet. So I don't recognize the image of people being obstructed. It is precisely the fact that it is taking place throughout the Netherlands that shows that, in my first opinion, this declaration process is going well. The central coordination of the assessment of the declarations lies with the public prosecutor's office in The Hague. This means that all declarations entering the country are controlled by the police unit in The Hague. He'll take it in a coordinated manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm finishing up, because I see I've run out of time. I would like to know from the Minister when he can inform the Chamber of the steps taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u6	As soon as the opportunity to inform the Chamber is available, I will, of course, do so. Let me conclude by saying that the cabinet rejects any form of violence and discrimination, whether it concerns race, religion, belief, sex, sexual orientation or any other ground. Let me assure the Chamber that no distinction is made in dealing with discrimination and providing protection by the government, whether it be the local government or the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u7	Nazis are back. Twenty mosques in the Netherlands have received the threatening letter with Nazi symbols that I show here. And what do I hear here? Mr Marcouch is asking for an investigation. The Minister is going to talk to Minister Asscher again empty-handed this week to the mosques. When is he going to deploy the same resources as he uses in the security of synagogues? We think it is right for the Minister to use EUR 1.5 million to secure the synagogues. When is he actually going to take away that double size and also use EUR 1.5 million to secure the mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u8	I do not recognize myself in the summary of the measures taken by the government. Firstly, security measures are primarily a matter of local authority. I have just said that in the direction of Mr Marcouch. The local mayor is primarily responsible for the measures taken. It's been that way for a long time. There's nothing new about that. That happens on the basis of a threat analysis. What's it gonna take? Whatever it takes is done. Of course this has the attention of the municipalities, but certainly these new activities and horrific incidents also have the attention of the government. We are in close consultation with the communities and the municipalities concerned. Of course, we never make any announcements about the content of the system, not even in this case. For the rest, I do not recognise the paraphrase put forward by Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u9	The Minister comes with anointing words. When it comes to salafism, all parties here have 30 measures. When it comes to the security of the mosques, they're gonna talk again. Empty-handed! Minister, what else needs to be done? Burn? Do you need more molotov cocktails to be thrown? Do we need more pig heads to be thrown? Anything else you need to break into? Or should there be a death before you use the measures that you have also used for the Jewish people and the synagogues? What's to be done? Say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u10	I do not think Mr Öztürk listened to what I said. Let me repeat that a suspect was apprehended from the incident in Enschede. That can also be expected from the government. This is always the case: if a suspect can be apprehended, it happens regardless of the background. Mr Öztürk's suggestion that nothing happened is simply not in line with the facts...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u11	Double sizes!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u12	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u13	Finally, as I have just said, measures must be taken if they are to be taken. They're taken on the basis of threat analyses. The primary responsibility lies with the municipalities...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u14	Double sizes! What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr Öztürk!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u16	The same criterion is applied to every population and belief, because the government does not discriminate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u17	Let us be very clear that it is a good thing that a suspect has been arrested and that the VVD condemns what happened in Enschede. It is also good that research is being carried out into those who distributed these pamphlets. I have another question. Is the minister familiar with the poster, or the pamphlet if you like, of the Essalammoskee in Rotterdam, on which, among other things, colleague Marcouch was depicted a week ago? How does the Minister see this poster in the context of hate sowing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-4.u18	I don't know that poster, I must say. I'll be happy to look into that. One thing's for sure. Whether from right-wing extremist or left-wing extremist angle, or because of a belief of one side or another of the spectrum: this is the same measure as for all other expressions. If there is hatred, sedition or other criminal acts, then that will be looked at carefully and prosecution will take place if necessary.
