ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. Mrs Keijzer is already standing by. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u2	Mr. Chairman. Here's a happy person. Last September, I argued during an AO to remove the Social Insurance Bank from the pgb-chain. The reason: it's complicated enough without the Social Insurance Bank. As an example, I have just tweeted the flowchart that the National Ombudsman has shown in his destructive report on the right of drawing. I heard from the media that there is now a majority for that idea. Good. The BIT opinion, of the ICT Examination Office, is the basis for this. The BIT would investigate a new ICT payment system, but it ignored it and looked at the whole chain. This was also the subject of a negative assessment. But actually, no one can be surprised. Previously, there were clear indications that the system wasn't going to fly. However, the BIT opinion raises a number of questions that are relevant to every future of the pgb. I'll make a few. Where does the chain director get the power to determine direction from the Social Insurance Bank, or from any other organisation in the future? The Secretary of State for VWS or the Secretary of State for Social Affairs isn't about it anymore. All municipalities and healthcare offices are responsible for their own decisions and their ICTs. Part of this discussion is the so-called iWmo. This is the standardised exchange of data from municipalities. Not all municipalities still agree to this. Is that gonna be different? Is that necessary? I therefore put these questions to the Secretary of State of the United States of America. He wants a step-by-step improvement in the pgb chain. What steps? And what's that gonna cost? Then the future. There's a majority to get the SVB out. The question is, how? For the CDA, it is essential that the desire to keep the state secretarys politically out of the wind should never be at the expense of the interests of budget holders or caregivers. They have to be central. We have previously put forward ideas and we ask the Secretary of State to take them with us, should he start working on another solution after tonight. It's a pain in the ass, but it's definitely not a pain in the ass. I requested this debate last September in connection with the ZEMBLA documentary entitled 'The spaghetti code'. We almost forgot. This was a remarkable documentary, which highlighted the perfide entanglement between hired supervisors and the ICT sector and the disastrously poor service provided by Capgemini, one of the largest ICT companies in this country. This documentary was about the multi-scheme system. That's a system for WAO and child support, not pgb. But one thing is certain: if that had been introduced, the problems we saw with the pgb were nothing compared to the problems of the five million people who depend on it. The documentary showed that there was no quality control. Employees with a critical attitude were dismissed and marginalised. The documentary showed how the so-called India Route didn't work, how accounts were paid to Capgemini without that work being done, how hired programme leaders were paid by Capgemini and how they opposed that the Social Insurance Bank actually knew what Capgemini was getting into ICT systems. I have the following questions to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. When did she know about the Indian route? When did she know about the persons G. and R. who worked at the Social Insurance Bank and were intertwined with Capgemini and with each other? How did the amount of 43 million be built up? Is the Secretary of State prepared to back this up? Has it intervened earlier than in November 2014? And what did she do when ZEMBLA sent out the documentary in early September? Who has been held responsible for this? And can I assume that Capgemini or any other company that works that way will at least not be working at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment anymore? And since the U.S. Secretary of State is here, I'm also asking him that last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u3	Mr. Chairman. In January last year it became clear that the new pgb system did not do what it had to do. It was not the first time that an ICT project at the Social Insurance Bank failed fatally, but this failure caused major problems for many healthcare providers and budget holders. These people are not only victims of a "spaghetti code" but also of a State Secretary who ignored all the alarm bells in his decision to introduce the system. The Court of Auditors and the National Ombudsman subsequently stated that the interests of citizens were seriously affected. After months of debate and promises that it would be resolved quickly, it became increasingly clear that this was not going to work. There were recovery plans, improvement plans, a march route and a plan to tackle ICT. Manual processing is a bit downplayed by the Secretary of State; he always turned around. However, we see in the report of the ICT Agency that this has been a bit expensive and, above all, time-consuming. By the way, it is a good thing that we have this ICT test, because that is why we now have that report. If we had had that report without the ICT Examination Office, I would ask the Secretary of State. Let's see what Bureau ICT review says about the concept plan for ICT improvement. "There is little chance that the project will succeed in its current design. The plan is inadequate to the extent to which it takes account of the whole chain', i.e. municipalities, with data supplied and with budget holders..... "the feasibility, the assessment of the risks of the project and the financing'. That is really not enough in all respects. There we are, a year later, with nothing. How could the Social Insurance Bank come up with such a bad plan six months after she apologized theatrically in this building? That does not create confidence, I ask both Secretary of State. The reaction of these directors to the conclusions of the ICT Examination Office was: we are going to link up and coordinate plans. Brilliant idea, how did they come up with it! Why haven't we done that before? An external advice was needed to decide that the ICT renewal of the pgb will be linked to the Improved Drawing Rights Plan pgb. It's kind of sad, isn't it? How is the SVB going to replace its computer systems while ensuring that payments go through error-free? It hasn't been thought about. I found it deceptive to read. I also found it disgusting to read the following comments: we will take that with us, we will have a draft plan after the draft plan, we will have a review of the ICT test every time and we will take six months longer. Why don't you go back to sleep? Last year, I once suggested that the pgb payment should be returned to the budget holders or to municipalities in order to give more space to those who were seriously affected by the services provided by the Social Insurance Bank. That was rejected by a majority of this Chamber, also by D66, who is now making such a proposal. We have also proposed removing the entire Social Insurance Bank from the chain. We are 150 million away and I see that there is now a majority in favour of this, at least in the newspapers. This evening, or when we are going to vote on motions, we will see to what extent that was, or actually, serious for the stage. I would like to call on these State Secretarys to step away from the link that the Social Insurance Bank is now in the system of drawing rights. Municipalities and health offices are responsible for the provision and establishment of the pgb. Therefore, give them the responsibility for their payment. Yeah, we're gonna have to take care of that. We shouldn't rush that. Let's not burden the new chairman of the Social Insurance Bank with this headache file.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u4	Mr. Chairman. Today we have yet another debate on the pgb problems. What do these payout problems at the Social Insurance Bank mean in practice? They're caregivers, budget holders, who lost their regular caregivers because they couldn't afford them. These are care seekers who have felt compelled to switch to care through an institution, care in kind, in order to get something of care. It concerns care workers who have decided not to work for caregivers with a pgb, simply because they can't live without their salary. It is a matter of care workers who did not abandon their caregivers, but were therefore in debt. These are small health care companies that ask their employees if they can only pay their fixed costs and if they can't put a fork in the institution for the rest. These are small health care companies that have fallen because the Social Insurance Bank did not pay out. This is just a small selection from last year's pgb miserable. The worst thing about all this is that it could have just been prevented. That is why any debate could have led to a vote of no confidence. The Secretary of State has deliberately pushed through the introduction of the right of draw as of 1 January 2015. I mean, knowingly, when he didn't inform the Chamber or ask for an agreement. Precisely, because he was aware that there was a lot of fuss at the Social Insurance Bank from 2008 to 2014 about the new ICT system for the payment of child benefit and the AOW. Mr Keijzer has just spoken about it in detail. There was so much fuss that Secretary of State Klijnsma had pulled the plug in November 2014 after an issue of about 100 million euros. The Social Insurance Bank, on its own initiative, continued its work on the introduction of the right to draw pgb. In that year, months after month, all the signals were red in order to allow the introduction of the pgb draw right to take place effectively from 1 January 2015. But at the top of the Social Insurance Bank there was "jomandality." They've always felt like it would work. Both Secretary of State Klijnsma and Secretary of State Van Rijn referred to this "gejomanda," not to the facts. They have, against better knowledge, introduced the right of draw as of 1 January 2015, with all the consequences. Van Rijn was warned just before the introduction that the feasibility had become risky, but that was also ignored. Some self-reflection is a long way from this cabinet. Although Van Rijn has already received two motions of censure, the attempt is now being made to shift the blame for this misery to Secretary of State Klijnsma. I heard one of my colleagues in the corridors say: Secretary of State Klijnsma is thrown in front of the train, because if Van Rijn falls, the cabinet falls. That's the story. And what does Secretary of State Klijnsma do? She sacrificed last February the director of the Social Insurance Bank, Mrs Vermeulen. In addition, if you fire someone for failure, it's very special that someone like that gets a nice job at their own ministry. This cabinet should be ashamed of itself. Goldy former PVV roommates have to bite on a stick and never get another job, but for the above-mentioned PvdA elite there is always a nice job arranged. It's okay to be a loser. You can't be a PVV guy. After a year with numerous commitments on solutions, improvement plans and deadlines, there is now the Advisory Report of the ICT Test Office. According to the Cabinet, this is the solution. There's another Band-Aid on a really smelly wound. My group has been saying since February last year that the payment of the pgb must be removed from the Social Insurance Bank. We need to get back to the old system, at least until the SVB in 2018 has an automated system that works proven. It should not be a manual wood rope system in which declarations submitted via My PCI are first printed out and then scanned again. It even has to be a system where it doesn't matter which color pen you use. 393 municipalities should not re-invent the wheel 393 times. We resent the VVD and the Labour Party for having allowed this debacle to continue for the honour of Van Rijn and for Van Rijn to be spared the backs of the people who are the losers of his government failure. I hope the VVD doesn't just bark again without biting, because that's gonna be embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u5	Mr. Chairman. We have had a controlled crisis in the SVB for 15 months now because of the right of pgb draw. Payments are better and seem stable, purely because hundreds of people work hard to maintain this false reality. In the meantime, we are 156 million further. This Secretary of State must be realistic. This can't be sustained. The pgb is important to give people their own direction about care. However, in the past year, pgb has been a liability to healthcare users. The right of pgb draw should support budget holders in their administrative role and should also tackle fraud. Both objectives have not been achieved. That's for sure. This ICT system isn't gonna work. The current division of responsibility, with a difficult word 'governance', is unworkable with so many parties. Any organization at the end of this chain would have got into trouble. The simple solution to remove the SVB from the chain does not solve the problem. Nor does this do justice to reality and to the solution. My group does not want to waste any more money and energy. The planning and final deadlines of the ICT renewals proposed by the Cabinet are a blackbox. It's also a mystery what all these improvements are going to bring. Can the Secretary of State make it clear what costs and benefits he himself has in mind for the coming period to keep the existing system and organisation in the air and to build a new system? And when will this new system be operational? The ICT Examination Bureau, the BIT, which is looking at major ICT projects of the government, stated that this system and this organisation are not going to work. A signal that the Chamber cannot and cannot ignore. I find it striking that the opinion of the BIT states that the commissioning authority should be given to the Director-General for Long-Term Care, an opinion that the Cabinet has not adopted. I would like a response to show why it was not chosen. The BIT clearly advises something else. We are getting new signals that both State Secretarys were already aware of the major problems with governance and the division of responsibility in the chain in July 2015. Is it true that in July 2015, almost a year ago, both State Secretarys received a letter of fire from the SVB stating that the current system would be unworkable? Can the Secretary of State indicate when the BIT opinion was in the cabinet? How long did that take? When did they get that advice? D66 concludes that centralising the payments of the pgb is not feasible in this care landscape, which consists of more than 400 municipalities that often work in a different way, health offices, health insurance companies, the Social Insurance Bank, two ministries and budget holders with a customised question. Perhaps we should conclude today that it is an error of assessment to want to centralise such a system. D66 doesn't want to throw away old shoes before we have new ones, but D66 thinks it's important that we be honest and make a knot before we waste any more money and energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u6	There is an interruption by Mrs Keijzer, but I think Mrs Bergkamp is almost ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u7	Yeah, I got a little leftover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u8	I suggest Mrs Bergkamp finish her story. Then Mrs Keijzer will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u9	For this reason, D66 comes up with a new plan which states that the direction should be to the budget holders and that there should be prior control. Is this Columbus' egg? I do not know, but at least it contains a number of important ingredients that the budget holder organisation Per Balance also embraces. We think it is important for the Secretary of State to state today that he wants to investigate this plan. I therefore have a copy of the plan that I would very much like to hand over to the Secretary of State and my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u10	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u11	I hear the D66 group say that the BIT opinion makes it clear that it is not just an ICT problem, but a chain problem. Does Mrs Bergkamp of the D66 Group remember the letter from the VNG of 22 July 2014?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u12	Maybe Mrs. Keijzer can help me out. What quote does she mean from that letter exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u13	That was a letter of about four sides in which the VNG indicated on all kinds of parts that the system was far from ready. The VNG therefore also called in 2014. That's what we've been talking about all of 2015. That is why I am asking Mrs Bergkamp from the D66 group, or in the plan that she is now putting forward, the problem of governance, as Mrs Bergkamp called it, is resolved in the sense that the Secretary of State and we are no longer dealing with it, because all these matters are decentralised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u14	I told you, I'm wondering if the plan is Columbus' egg. We think the plan is worth investigating. That is why we would ask the Secretary of State to investigate this seriously. The plan assumes that the management will be returned to budget holders, with prior control by the health offices and the municipalities. Furthermore, the budget holders must be supported, for example by giving a form of training. There must also be a conversation to see if budget holders are able to deal with a personalised budget. Another element is that we think it is important for budget holders to have a separate bank account, which cannot be debited, but can only be transferred to fixed counter-accounts, linked to the care agreement. That is in a nutshell the plan presented by D66. That plan was well received by Per Balance, so by the budget holders. Mrs Keijzer asks whether we could not have seen all this coming. In retrospect, it is very easy to draw some conclusions. I think it's valuable that the BIT investigation has done. The conclusions are spicy. That was for D66 confirmation that it has to be different. That's the sum that D66 made. The commitment of D66 in this conversation is therefore to make a real serious work of an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u15	In September, when I proposed to remove the SVB, D66 was not yet ready. I do now, and I'm happy about that. Any idea we have tonight to find a solution to this is a good thing, but I still have a question of conscience for D66. Every time we talk about things that go wrong, where then we have to intervene in the responsibilities, D66 says no to that because we have given things to the municipalities. However, for every procedure you do, including the D66 proposal, you will have to intervene in the autonomy of healthcare offices, municipalities and ministries. Does D66 want to take that step now? Otherwise we won't have to look at D66's plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u16	Mrs Keijzer compares apples to pears. She refers to a general consultation that we have had, but that was on a completely different subject, namely day-to-day spending. In fact, I felt that it was too far-reaching to take part in the responsibility of the municipalities and impose a number of things. On this subject, however, perhaps Mrs Keijzer can remember this, and I have tabled a motion designed to standardise and standardize a number of things. Of course, you will have to deal with each other and you will have to intervene, otherwise you will not achieve uniformity and standardisation. If that is what Mrs Keijzer means, then I agree with her that it is important to reduce the regulatory burden on budget holders. That means that you also have to look at how to organise these processes. I hope Mrs Keijzer will look at our plan with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u17	I assume we all get this plan, too. I've had to hear it from the media for the rest of the time. I did have a question about it and I can now ask D66. The point is that the direction should be returned to the budget holder, that there should be a prior check and that they should be ordered to pay themselves. Hasn't it always been the Secretary of State's promise that he would take care of that in recent years? In what sense is D66's plan different from what it has allowed the Secretary of State to do in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u18	The plan that we have embraced as a Chamber because we thought it was a good solution was the drawing rights system as it is now. In fact, there has been a centralisation, in which the Social Insurance Bank is responsible for implementation. This system had two objectives, namely tackling fraud and supporting the budget holder in the administrative role. I myself concluded in my story that, unfortunately, both objectives have not been achieved. In the D66 plan, this is again decentralised and brought under the direction of the budget holder himself. That's a world of difference from the plan that's in place right now. So they really are two different models. However, these objectives are still important. Of course, we need to tackle fraud and, of course, we need to give better support to the budget holder. We have the same objectives, but we use another instrument or means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u19	For me, those drawing rights have always been linked to taking away risks, such as the risk of knowing or subconsciously spending the money you get in your account, and the risk of someone else spending that bag of yours for a while. I think that's the right to draw. Where you invest a thing or two doesn't really matter. My analysis is that this choice of centralization is not part of the right to draw, but follows from D66's answer, if I see it correctly, that this party no longer has any confidence in the Secretary of State's plan. Then D66 has a very different position than in the past year. D66 has clearly supported the Secretary of State. The party was for a march route and for an improvement plan. Well, then I'm curious. If you no longer have any confidence in the Secretary of State's solutions, I wonder when exactly that insight has come. Shouldn't that understanding be extended to an alternative? Should we not also be aware that we may have supported the Secretary of State for far too long to stay with the Social Insurance Bank and to put aside alternatives? Several parties have been asking for this for a long time. So what's the thing that started the change at D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u20	This is the tenth debate we have on this issue. D66 has endeavoured to control payments in the current system by means of control and by means of motions. That has been a huge job that we've been working on with multiple parties. Things seem to be under control right now. It seems stable and that is an improvement compared to a year ago. We do think that is what I said just now in my explanatory statement, Mr President, that it takes far too much capacity and effort to keep it in the air. That is why this debate is no longer about short-term issues, but about the long term, about a solid solution. That is why D66 has come up with a solution. I hope that Mrs Leijten appreciates that there are also parties who are thinking about a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u21	Mr. Chairman. More than a year has passed since the hashtag "pgbalarm" became trending topic on Twitter. It has been almost seven months since a very critical report by the Ombudsman was published. The Secretary of State for VWS has had a lot of debate on this subject. Something did happen in the meantime. Very big problems don't seem to be happening anymore, but there are still a lot of problems. The most serious symptoms have been combated, but the ailment keeps getting worse. Budget holders and caregivers still suffer a lot from it. There doesn't seem to be much progress. Structural solutions remain out. The director of the SVB has cleared the field, but what's going to solve all this? Can Secretary of State Klijnsma explain this departure? Did this have to do with the personal budget and can we still expect corpses in the closet? I would also like to hear why one of the board members of the UWV has been appointed as a temporary observer. Unfortunately, the UWV does not yet have a good track record on service, let alone on ICT. Is this a signal that's pre-sorted for a merger? I do not think that the way things are going is very encouraging. Secretary of State Klijnsma responds with her characteristic optimism to a very critical report on opportunities at SVB to improve ICT. With our recommendations follow here and a little effort there we will get there, she seems to say. And Secretary of State Van Rijn insists that paying 95% on time is pretty good anyway, which makes him seem to be playing down the problems again. I still miss the ingenuity on the signal that people spend a whole day a week on pgb administration. It is up to the people whether they choose a pgb, the Secretary of State answers to questions from the SP. But that almost sounds like the red tape is on purpose and the personal budget is discouraged, by making every pgb feel as if he is a potential fraudster. But the red tape caused by government systems must not lead people to abandon that personalized budget or feel discouraged. In this respect, there may be a little more sense of urgency and empathy for the people who are concerned. In the past year, GroenLinks' hope was that 2016 would be the year that the problems at SVB would become more and more a thing of the past and that the right of draw would work well. Still, 2016 seems to be another junk year. The emergency measures that would be introduced for a few months are still in force. And as I read the report on ICT, it is really going to take quite some time and effort. I therefore understand the question raised by different parties, whether we should look at a different system and have it implemented by municipalities and health offices, for example. But no system is sacred. With regard to GroenLinks, a new system change is not necessarily the solution. We want a good solution instead of just a quick one. I understand that there are municipalities that say that they can do better and I really do think there are, but I do not want to base on that that there should be a healthcare office again to all the municipalities. GroenLinks agrees that alternatives should be considered, but with open vision and without bias and therefore with the conditions in advance. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, these conditions are the following. Firstly, people must be at the forefront and not the systems. For GroenLinks this means that we prefer to have one contact point for budget holders. Many budget holders combine care from multiple healthcare laws. GroenLinks is therefore concerned that the opening of the right to draw by municipalities and health care offices will mean that budget holders for the different forms of care will have to declare at different points of contact and systems and that there will be more uncertainty, because one municipality does not and the other municipality executes the right to draw or because one municipality will do it for the Wmo care itself, but the care office still leads it through the SVB. Secondly, simplification must be at the forefront. Budget holders must quickly realise that the system is becoming simpler. This also means that we must have greater confidence in the people. When you focus mainly on combating fraud, it by definition leads to a more complicated system. Thirdly, there must be and remain a clear director. Secretary of State Klijnsma says that municipalities and health offices should become more commissioned vis-à-vis the SVB, but it does not seem to me the time to sit back and fragment responsibility, especially now that there is no direction. I'm rounding up. However, we do feel that a number of municipalities that can meet these three conditions should take a test to gain experience with alternatives in this way. However, it must be made clear in advance that this does not hinder budget holders and carers. No increase in bureaucracy and contact points. We cannot take the risk that a change will lead to new problems for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u22	I hear GroenLinks thinking about alternatives. Can one of these alternatives be that the direction be returned to the budget holders and we do not leave the link between the municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u23	Oh, yeah. I was just running out of time, but one of the conditions is that people have to be first and not the systems. I have the feeling that it might become more complicated if we say now: we leave it with municipalities or with health offices. I would like us to look at a number of alternatives equally and, above all, to lay down very clear conditions in advance. What do we want to achieve with the new system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u24	That is a very realistic argument from GroenLinks. I am glad to hear that it is not about speed, but also about care. Does GroenLinks think it is important that time and energy are invested in the SVB's improvement plan to create a new ICT system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u25	Yeah, I think you should keep improving. Even if we were to come to the conclusion, after examination, that there should be another exporter, it would still take a long time for this to be achieved. In the meantime, work must certainly be done to improve the SVB system. If we can get a number of things out of the system and make the system easier, that was one of the other conditions, perhaps we will come to the conclusion that we will leave implementation with the SVB. For us, it's important that people stand first. The system must be simpler and there must be one clear director.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u26	Mr. Chairman. If you are dealing with the government, you must be able to count on a good service. That has been going on since last year's Social Insurance Bank took over the payment of the personal budgets, to say the least, not well. Many pgb-holders and their aid workers got into trouble because they weren't paid in time. There's gotta be another way. Aid workers of pgb-holders should simply be paid properly and on time, without hassle. Of course, the fact that the social insurance bank's current pgb-ICT system is not working properly is no secret. With art and flying work, most payments are made on time, but the system needs to be simpler and more customer friendly. A new concept ICT system designed for this purpose has been tested by the ICT-Touring Office, the BIT. The conclusions of the BIT report are harsh. They've already been mentioned by others. The new system is not good either. I quote: BIT considers that this project is unlikely to succeed in its current design, because the proposed plan is seriously inadequate. The plan does not take sufficient account of the pgb chain, the feasibility is not well thought out, the SVB estimates the project too optimistic and the funding is still unclear. The PvdA considers it serious that there is so much to note on the new concept plan. What does the Secretary of State for Social Affairs think about the SVB making a plan on which BIT has so much and so much fundamental comment? What does that say about the ICT capabilities of the Social Insurance Bank? After the MRS drama, the Social Insurance Bank might have had to take on the assignment for the pgb a little less eagerly. How much is the new plan going to cost? Why doesn't the Secretary of State take over the BIT recommendation on managing the entire project? That brings us to the question: how to proceed? There must be a system that works: customer-friendly and simple. PGB holders are entitled to that. Before a lot of money is put into a new computer system at the SVB, where the question is whether it will actually work, the question is: should the SVB continue to implement the right of draw, or should alternatives be considered first? As an example, I would like to mention the implementation of the right of trekking by municipalities and health offices. They are also already responsible for granting decisions to pgb holders, so why not also payout? The link SVB falls out. This can be started quite quickly. The municipalities and health offices that wish to do so can already exercise the right to draw for their own pgb-holders; the SVB can still do so for the other pgb-holders. In addition, D66 also has an interesting plan, which is based on previous ideas that Per Recht has also put forward. I am curious to hear the response of the U.S. Secretary of State to these different options. However, it is unwise to just decide that suddenly things have to change completely. After all, it must be avoided that another payoff is created; Per Balance rightly warns against this. The PvdA therefore calls for an investigation into the organisation that could best carry out the drawing right for pgbs, including the question of how to execute that right of draw in a customer-friendly manner. Alternatives to the SVB should be explicitly included. This means that the PvdA is in favour of putting in place new ICT investments in the SVB and only making the most simple and necessary adjustments to the right of draw. When could the Secretary of State have examined these alternatives and sent them to the Chamber? When can he decide, in consultation with the Chamber, what a future-proof and customer-friendly pgb draw will look like? I'm gonna finish up. Pgb holders should be able to rely on a system that works; I said it before. Aid workers simply need to be paid out properly and on time. The system must also be simple and customer-friendly. That's what the PvdA is charging the pgb system for. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the organisation that can do this best must take on the task of implementing it. It is time for a thorough investigation, so that we can cut through the knots and really solve the problems, and every pgb holder and every aid provider get the certainty of a well-functioning system and timely payout.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u27	I have a simple question. I made a distinction in my contribution between the discussion on the spaghetti code and the multi-scheme system. I put my questions to Secretary of State Klijnsma and everything about the pgb and SVB. My questions on that last point were addressed to the Secretary of State of the United States of America. Did I just hear Mr Van Dijk ask questions about pgbing to Secretary of State Klijnsma? I expect we'll all get those answers from the U.S. Secretary of State. This is important, because we all want to know who to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u28	Then it is good that Mrs Keijzer is still asking this question, because my questions about the pgb and the future of the right of draw or the alternatives to it have all been put to the State Secretary for Health. My questions about the BIT opinion, which also refers to the ICT system, have been put to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u29	That is, as far as I am concerned, a change. Until the BIT opinion, which has actually been one of many ICT opinions over the last year and a half, it was the Secretary of State of VWS who informed us about this and who discussed it with us. I therefore expect the Secretary of State of the United States to answer the questions on this matter again today, otherwise the inconspicuous gibberish will become even more incontrovertible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u30	So this is a question for the Secretary of State, through Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u31	I am glad that the PvdA finds D66's plan to recreate the direction interesting to the budget holders. However, I also hear the PvdA say that an investigation is needed to see who can best carry out the drawing right. However, one of the conclusions that I drew from the BIT opinion is how, given all these municipalities and health offices, you can centralize two departments involved and the custom-made question of budget holders at all. Does Mr Van Dijk share D66's conclusion that it is not just about changing organisation, but that you also have to look at the whole care landscape?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u32	I think Mrs Bergkamp has a point there. That is why, on the one hand, I would like to support her plea for an investigation into her variant. On the other hand, the Sociale Verzekeringsbank (Social Insurance Bank), even when it was not yet officially implementing the drawing right, thus in the period before 2015, carried out the tasks at that time in relation to the pgb to the best satisfaction. So I find it difficult to say that by definition the Social Insurance Bank would not be able to do so. With a well-functioning system, Mrs Voortman has already made a few comments on this. This is perhaps possible, but it is impossible to draw that conclusion on the basis of the BIT opinion that is now before us. In my opinion, it is wise to list a number of variants now. The variant of a working SVB. The variant of decentralising to municipalities and health offices. That variant doesn't sound illogical at all, because there is another task there. And the variant of Mrs Bergkamp. Let's get a list of all these variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u33	I notice that the PvdA wants to investigate different scenarios. I can imagine. We will have to invest, however, and that was also the question I asked Mrs Voortman, because of course we need a budget to get the SVB's improvement plan up and running. Or does the PvdA say that we really need to make a pass on the spot and stop doing that? I wonder if the PvdA would like to set a deadline for examining all these scenarios, because we cannot of course continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u34	I said in my speech that we should not invest millions of dollars in a system that is still questioning whether it will work. However, we have previously agreed with the Secretary of State that some improvements will have to be made to the current ICT system, so that it can continue to run and make it a little simpler and more customer-friendly. As far as I am concerned, these investments, which we had already agreed, can continue. In fact, they should continue as far as I am concerned. However, it seems to me wise to make a step in the right direction with the taking of the present system and the building of a new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u35	It is unheard of to read the opinion report of the ICT Research Office. We can see that improvements have to be made to the current system, but that the plans for a new system, which should have been there for the introduction of drawing rights in the past year, are not getting enough. This conclusion is also drawn by the PvdA, as I understand from Mr Van Dijk. In response to the BIT report we are told by the Secretary of State: we are going to talk a little bit, we are going to fröbel a little bit and you will hear from us again. How does the PvdA feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u36	In my opinion, we should never do anything about an ICT system. I have read the reaction of the Secretary of State in such a way that they take on board the recommendations in the BIT report individually, with the exception of the recommendation on chain control. I have therefore asked why this is not the case. Mrs Leijten must, of course, ask the State Secretary himself how they see their response to the BIT report. She has already asked them that question. But that this is a rather serious report and I would like to say that I am still very careful about being shared by SP and PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u37	Indeed, I had already drawn that conclusion. My group is already ready to say that the health offices and the municipalities carried out the pgb before the drawing right came into effect, so they can do it again now. A careful introduction. The Secretary of State is conducting an investigation. Fine, but I see that as a rejection of what the Secretary of State has presented to us today. I'd like to hear from the PvdA how she assesses the reaction of the Secretary of State. They are on course: we are going to continue; there is a serious report, but we are going to have a little discussion and the most important recommendation is that someone who is going to take the lead is not even going to take over; you will hear from us again. In fact, Mr Van Dijk says that a pass must be made on the spot and that we must do it differently. Shouldn't that have happened on this file much sooner? Shouldn't this have happened last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u38	Mrs Leijten rightly concludes that the Labour Party and, in my opinion, the whole Chamber say: make a pass before you start making major ICT investments. But I would almost say: there is also something, namely that BIT report. We agree that this report is a significant warning signal. I don't think it's weird that we tried last year to get the system running for what was chosen. It was slow but certainly better, but the system was not customer-friendly and not easy. We want to make that improvement step with each other. That's what the new system is for. That's what's there. Well, that's pretty merciless, isn't it? I don't think it's weird that there's gonna be a moment when you say, guys, we're gonna pass the place for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u39	I think it is very important that the system should also be simplified. That is what I hear Mr Van Dijk say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u40	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u41	However, if we say that we are doing it to the municipalities and the health offices, I fear a little that it can become more complicated. There are also many people who have pgbs under different health care laws. Does Mr Van Dijk, like GroenLinks, think that you should focus on what the goals are? In my group's view, therefore, we should not say that it must by definition be carried out by the municipalities or by the health offices. We have to ask ourselves what the criteria to which we are going to test the possible alternatives to be examined are. Does Mr Van Dijk agree with my group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u42	Yes, I very much agree with Mrs Voortman's comment. I have already said that I will say something about this at the end of my speech. I'll check my note. It says: it must be simple, it must be customer-friendly and the direction must be with the budget holder. And payment must be made on time. If that's about the four key criteria, I think GroenLinks and the Labour Party agree that it doesn't really matter who does it. However, these criteria must be met. That's why I'm not saying after noon: we have to do it like this and everything. I think that's a little premature. There are several proposals. It says how it could be. In my view, these proposals should be examined in the light of the different principles that we have in order to reach a good choice. As far as I'm concerned, we make that choice together in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u43	Another point that does bother me is that it is very often about the fight against fraud. It is pretended that this should be the main objective. I have the feeling that if you continue to focus on the fight against fraud, the system will become more complicated. If you put trust in people again, it could lead to a more executable system. Does Mr Van Dijk feel that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u44	I did not use the word 'anti-fraud' in my speech, but the right to draw had two objectives. One of the aims, I believe, was to combat fraud. After all, we should not be naive. As with care in kind, there are situations in which care money is being cheated on. That's what you want to avoid as much as possible. However, the purpose of the right of draw was also to create a certain kind of service orientation for budget holders. In fact, the conclusion of over a year's draw right is that both goals have not been met. So it's not so crazy that you're looking for alternatives that make sense with care money and provide a good service for budget holders. It is not surprising that we are going to use these criteria again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u45	Mr. Chairman. The Social Insurance Bank didn't pay pgbs on time last year didn't miss anyone. Maybe that's a big understatement, too. It is precisely when you need tailor-made care due to a disability, illness or accident that the government is in order to carry out its tasks. For budget holders and caregivers, pgb is vital. This applies to the budget holder because he or she wants to be able to participate in society as much as possible despite a limitation. For the healthcare provider it is important because you of good care and passion for your work alone, can't pay your mortgage. Let me therefore stress the most important point that I wish to make in this debate, but right away. The recent report of the ICT Examination Office (BIT) shows that the additional efforts of the SVB and the ministries are unlikely to lead to a system that is going to function. It's not going to a system we want. That's too bad. The usefulness of the pgb instrument should never be called into question as far as my party is concerned. With enthusiasm, conviction and idealism, the VVD has been at the cradle of an important instrument that gave people the opportunity to direct their lives as much as possible. The instrument will have to work. That is why I ask the Secretary of State for Health to investigate what alternatives there are for the payment of pgbs elsewhere. I expect the Secretary of State to be able to discuss these alternatives in the Chamber for the summer. Three conditions are very important for the VVD. Firstly, the right to draw should not be called into question in these alternatives. We have introduced this system because we would have a more reliable, less fraud-sensitive and simpler system with the right to draw. It can't be that we're getting off that again. Secondly, as much as possible must be driven from the budget holder himself. The system must be comprehensible, transparent and, above all, accessible. Thirdly, it is very important for my party that the system provides sufficient opportunity to combat and detect fraud. Can the Secretary of State promise that he will come forward with these alternatives well before the summer? Can the Secretary of State also indicate what steps need to be taken to change the system at least before 1 January 2018? I am thinking together with my colleague, Mr Van Dijk, of tabling a motion on this matter. The problems of paying out the pgbs to the Social Insurance Bank do not seem to be on their own. The so-called Multi-scheme system has also proved to be costly and unworkable. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs how it is possible that a well-appointed implementing body such as the SVB has made such mistakes. How is it that there has not been an earlier intervention in the Multi-scheme system? Were the Social Insurance Bank and the State Secretary aware of the problems with this system at the time when the SVB participated in the implementation of the drawing right? I think that is a crucial question. If the Secretary of State wasn't aware, I'd like to know how. And if the Secretary of State was aware, I'd like to know why she didn't intervene when the SVB decided to participate in the execution of the drawing right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u46	Mr Potters has just mentioned three criteria to be met by the system for the right of withdrawal. Must be before the summer. We all agree with those criteria, but we all know that this system cannot run in the distance until the summer. That system will not be ready until 2018 at the earliest. Mr Potters' demand is therefore impossible. Does this mean that Mr Potters is finally going to pull the plug?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u47	I think I have been very careful in my contribution. I believe that we should be able to decide here before the summer on how to deal with a possible new pgb system in the future. I believe that the budget holders and the caregivers should be clear about this. That alternative should be available before the summer. Possibly, it could be multiple alternatives. I agree with Mrs Agema that its introduction may take some time. We should not all focus on a new deadline on, for example, 1 January 2017, which can lead to many accidents. As far as I am concerned, we are taking a little more time, so that we can move step by step towards a new system. Then it can first be tested in a number of municipalities. GroenLinks made a good plea for that. At any rate, I want a transition that is coordinated and step-by-step, so that we do not run into the problems of a new year's transition as we saw it a year and a half ago, because that would be a wrong choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u48	I cannot be very clear from what Mr Potters has said. In my opinion, he is now saying that a decision must be taken on a system before the summer, but that system will not be introduced until 2018 at the earliest. In other words, he leaves out the situation that exists now, because he only wants a decision for the summer on a new system from 2018. As a VVDer, he remains, knowingly and knowingly, responsible for the pgb-linger that now exists among caregivers and caregivers. What is Mr Potters doing with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u49	Surely it would be absurd for us to quickly pull the plug on a system that Mrs Agema has often mentioned, but that works and that makes for payment. As a result, a lot of budget holders get into trouble immediately with the payout. We don't want that. We are now on the verge of looking at the future of the pgb system. I think that the BIT report is so serious that we must draw the conclusion that we cannot continue on this path and that there must be a serious alternative. I want us to be able to take a decision on this before the summer, so that we can implement it properly. We can and must improve the current system in parts, but I do not want to invest too much in it. I'd like to be clear about the way we're gonna be able to do it soon. There are alternatives to that. My suggestion might be: municipal care offices. Maybe there are other alternatives. That is the decision that lies here. I think that's crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u50	No, it's not, because I think we should go back to the old system. The old system has always worked, but the old system had to be irresponsiblely kicked by the Secretary of State of VWS, without informing us enough. Now it appears that the VVD continues to support him in that. Once again, Mr Potters is a barking dog that does not bite. Every pgb debate again we see big headlines in the newspaper of a barking Mr Potters, but when he comes to a close, he does not want to make more than agreements about a new system from 2018. The people who are involved will remain without income or care. And it would have been so easy: back to the old system, which has always worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u51	I think the PVV had already prepared her contribution before she expected an answer from me at all: we are going to try to impose the frame of barking dog despite the answer I get. It's okay. I don't think that's a problem at all. But we are crystal clear at what we want. We want a good alternative that is really going to work, but we also want it to be very important that the people who are in the current system should not suffer from a quick, hasty decision. That is why I think we should look at a new system. That is really a different signal from what the VVD has shown so far. That's a change, but I also want to maintain the continuity of care for the budget holders and the caregivers. Then there is no point in going all the way back to the old situation, because you will also have to redesign it. That also means a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u52	I have really done my best to point out Mr Potters' contribution. I think I did it the right way: he now wants to agree on a system that will start working from 2018. I said we should get back to the old system. There was nothing wrong with that. That just worked. Then he says I want to frame him. It really isn't. He's a barking dog that doesn't bite. He stands for every debate in the newspaper and every debate we have on the pgb, he withdraws his cunt, every time! It's not a frame. It's simply the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u53	I think this is a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u54	That is what we are going to see when we see the motion, because I had the same experience on 14 September. However, I have another question for Mr Potters. When talking about the personal budget, the VVD Group often uses the word "fraud." Everyone here thinks you should fight fraud. Every time a fraud comes up, I think "take it!" but also "what annoying for all those people who follow the rules so neatly." We have received a report which shows that 34,000 people had been visited in their homes and that, in my view, there was only a suspicion of fraud in 7% of cases. At a third, that was even with the budget holders. So we are talking about 7% of 34 000 and a third of that; then we are talking about a small number. Is the VVD prepared to try to find a better balance in the system that we are about to choose between control and all the misery that comes from it on the one hand and the reality in which most budget holders seem to adhere neatly to the rules on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u55	Let me say two things about that. In my view, we now have a system in which all the control mechanisms at the front, including the possibility of looking at whether there is fraud or even abuse, are out of place because the continuity of payout is paramount. I get that, because that's very important. However, we did come up with a system in which we could achieve both things: a simpler system and the possibility of looking at whether there could be a sensitivity to fraud or misuse. We cannot do that with this new system. The BIT report shows that it is still the question of whether this is going to happen. I therefore think that we really need to look at a serious alternative, because it was indeed the intention to look at the front a little more closely whether it was wise to put money into the budget holder's account without checking. Unfortunately, we have seen some examples of fraud. They're pretty intense. It's not just one person who happens to declare a little too much; sometimes there's really organized crime behind it. We have to take it hard, because it undermines the pgb. But we also want improper use out of the system. After all, we are talking about taxpayers' money and we have to deal with it very carefully. The current system is not yet capable of doing so. The BIT opinion was still not very hopeful, as everyone could see. We need to find a balance. I therefore believe that we should maintain the right of draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u56	The figures I have just mentioned come from a study of the right to draw, and even from this it appears that few budget holders deal with the pgb in an unholy way. Many cases of large-scale pgb fraud that we have seen in recent years have been about the healthcare institutions. I therefore ask the following question again. Will the VVD Group join the CDA in thinking about a situation in which more space is given to pgb-holders, or in other words, in which pgb-holders are made less mad by all the rules that come towards them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u57	I think that is a good question, because it also gives me the opportunity to say that most of the pgb holders are of course very good at handling their pgb budget and not cheating. Sometimes they have to make an effort to pay it back at all. We have seen examples of this too. That is why it is important to tackle fraud, if there is a crime that actually threatens to contaminate the term 'pgb', well and harshly. But once again, I agree with Mrs Keijzer that there are a lot of pgb-holders who are very careful about this. That can certainly be appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u58	I still have a question in connection with the small-scale debate with Mrs Agema. Is it a requirement of the VVD that the Social Insurance Bank should leave that chain or is it an option? The interviews in the newspapers seem to indicate that the VVD wants to stop the SVB, but I just noticed in an interruption that it remains vague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u59	I don't think it's that vague at all. The BIT opinion makes a strong assessment of the role of the SVB. It is actually said that there is no real future scenario. I therefore believe that we should look very seriously at alternatives. So I say: really look at municipalities, such as Amsterdam and Maastricht, and the healthcare offices, because they say they can. Mrs Bergkamp has also put forward an alternative. I don't want to be the one to tell you exactly what the best solution is. Before that, I'm also looking at the Secretary of State. He needs the space to answer the "how-question." I know what I want, and that's a system that works. I really have my doubts about whether it will still fly with the SVB. I honestly don't think this could happen anymore, but I don't want to get in the way of the Secretary of State. In my opinion, we should seriously look at an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u60	I conclude that the statements in the newspapers are not the same as the statements here. I thought it was a bit simple: we take the SVB out of the chain and then it's solved. I am pleased that Mr Potters indicates that he wants to look at a wide range of alternatives that hopefully will. But what does Mr Potters do if the Secretary of State continues with the SVB?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u61	I think the SVB is really lagging behind. That is not the fault of the employees, because they have worked hard and done their best. However, the ICT system cannot cope with demand and there is a scenario that BIT has qualified as insufficient. Then you're very much behind. I'm just gonna have to see if we can catch up at all. In addition, we want to set up a central body to solve a local demand. It is the budget holder who has to check with the municipality whether the healthcare agreement that has been approved can actually be paid out. My experience is that you can resolve it within two or three days if, for example, the payout is not in order, because there is no signature or because the municipality has forgotten to upload that agreement. Or, for the time being, payments will be made, because we know exactly who we're talking about. With that a very large hoop, the SVB, is taken out. That might be a very good solution. That is why I would like to emphasise that as an alternative. It's not a debate for the stage. I want to see a real serious look at another route, where the SVB is not the performer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u62	The report is extremely critical of the system and of the role of the SVB. That's true. At the same time, we hear that municipalities do not always deliver the data on time. That brings me to the question of whether the transfer to the municipalities is by definition the solution. The aim is to regulate it more easily and centrally, with a single operator in charge. Are those also the criteria of the VVD? The question is how and not the fact that the SVB must be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u63	The budget holder comes first. Let that be clear. For him, it has to be simple and it has to work. He must be able to do so in consultation with the congregation. We can agree on that. I also thought it was a good suggestion to try the payout with the municipalities as well. They already approve the healthcare agreement and then we can take a very large hoop out of it. We need to look into that carefully. I want to take it one step at a time. We should not work towards a new deadline, or towards it must and will; only in this way and only in the municipalities. This may, on the contrary, create a great deal of implementation problems. The Chamber itself is responsible for that. I want a very serious alternative, and we are also taking the time to make the transition from one system to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u64	Then the question is what happens in the meantime. We can say that we are all going to investigate it, but it may be a while before that other choice is made. Then what happens in the meantime? That should make the VVD clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u65	That is why there is a deadline. We must be able to decide on an alternative here before the summer. In the meantime, unfortunately, we will have to deal with the existing system. If improvements can be made to make it easier at least, we must not fail to do so. However, let us not make a big investment in a new system at SVB, while there is such a hard report from the BIT. Then we don't choose the right path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u66	How different it was last year: the train was going to run, we had to trust that it would be okay and there were even parties and MPs doing voting. Today we hear the VVD say goodbye to the Social Insurance Bank and ask for an alternative before the summer. Now I have a question of confidence to Mr Potters of the VVD: is the Secretary of State of VWS the right person to prepare this for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u67	I have no doubt about that. If we decide today to look at a real alternative to the future and if the Secretary of State goes along with it, I hope and assume a little bit that he will support the majority of the Chamber in that regard........................................................................................................................................................................... Currently 95% are paid out. That's pretty good now. Still 5% aren't going well. That's still a big part. I know that. I get e-mails every day, too. I'm worried about it, too. Anyway, it's 95%. I don't want to put that in danger. However, there must be an alternative. I think the Secretary of State is capable of doing that properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u68	This is actually an answer to another question, which I did not ask. The Secretary of State has always told us until the introduction last year: things are going well and we are on course. Mr. Potters' predecessor, Mr. Van 't Wout, said that the train is going to run now. Of course, that was all whispered by the Secretary of State and the media people of VWS. Every time we had a debate, press releases were distributed at the same time and splashed with the intention that it would all lie with Members of Parliament. We didn't get pieces, or too late, or after a lot of hassle. Now the VVD says: to that Secretary of State who has made us walk into the swamp, we are now going to ask for alternatives to be put on the table so that we can make an honest choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u69	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u70	Does Mr Potters really believe that this Secretary of State is the right person to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u71	Yes. I hear a lot of interpretation and a lot of qualifications. It's okay. Maybe I can understand that from your point of view. However, I also see a Secretary of State who has worked day and night to get the payments in order and has acknowledged that things have gone wrong. This applies to both State Secretarys, by the way. I also think that the Secretary of State is ready to listen to the Chamber and say: I also see that the BIT opinion is really negative and that we may have to go to another scenario. As a VVDer, I was concerned about that sense of reality and about putting the budget holder first. I think that's what the Secretary of State was all about. That is a very important test criterion for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u72	Monday morning we woke up with a big newspaper in the AD: the SVB was more or less put aside by the VVD and we had to look for alternatives. I hear today in this debate that the soup is not being eaten as hot as it is being served. We don't like the SVB anymore, but still the door is kept open. I also hear the VVD talking today about deadlines: there has to be a plan for the summer and at the end of next year, the new system will have to work in early 2018. At the same time I hear the VVD say: let's not work with deadlines again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u73	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u74	So there are a number of contradictions in the debate that have been introduced by the VVD. I'm looking for the exact location of the VVD. What's the lead now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u75	Maybe we've all had a different debate. It's possible. However, I believe that the VVD sends a very clear and clear signal. We have said that we really need to think seriously about whether the SVB, given the way it is doing it now, is a good performer. We have great doubts about this, also in view of the opinion that is before us. So here's what I'm saying. Find an alternative and make sure that the Chamber can make a choice for the summer, so that budget holders and caregivers know what the future will bring them. If you are going to implement it, do not use a deadline of several months and do not say that it must have been introduced this year, but take more time for it. I think, quite frankly, that the Chamber gives quite a lot of time when it says that it may last until 1 January 2018. Then you have a year and a half to enter it. Maybe it's even very spacious, but I think that's important. We must prevent ourselves from falling into our own trap, namely that we always set new deadlines and additional requirements, which means that the implementation goes wrong. That's why I made this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u76	It is indeed important to put the budget holder first and not the deadlines or the system that we set up with each other. In that respect, I fully agree with Mr Potters. However, in the letter from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, on behalf of the Cabinet, I read that there is no reason to exchange the SVB for another execution organisation. I do not have the letter with me here, but it literally states that the BIT report, which has been mentioned so many times, does not give rise to another performer. How did the VVD read that letter and what is the VVD's opinion on it? I hear a very different story than the cabinet has put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u77	Mr Potters, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u78	Our role as Lower House is to control the cabinet. If the cabinet says 'this is the way we are going' and the VVD Group does not think that is the way forward, let us make it clear. We did so last Monday through the article in the AD, and I am doing so today. I don't think that's the right way to go. I do not think that we can continue with the SVB in this way. The BIT opinion is crystal clear and that means that an alternative must be put on the table. That is why we have made this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u79	You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u81	Mr. Chairman. It is now one year and three months after the start of the draw right. To be honest, I have lost count of the number of debates we have had in this Chamber, but also in committees. Unfortunately, we have to note that the payment is far from flawless. The information on My PCI is far from in order. We do not have a view on a rapid improvement. In fact, the very desired improvements in the pgb system are taking longer. I read in the letter for six months, but maybe it will be a year. Ordering care with a pgb can drive people to despair. It only has to go wrong at one link in the system and someone's at home chasing his computer for hours. There are so many parties where things can go wrong. I will mention some of them. The municipality, the care office, the CIZ, the district nurse and the SVB itself. The conclusions of the report of the ICT-Toetsing Office are razor sharp. The BIT considers that the project, the improvement of the payment system, is unlikely to succeed in the current design. The proposed plan is seriously inadequate. It takes too little account of the pgb chain, the feasibility is not sufficiently thought out, the SVB estimates the project too optimistic and the funding is still unclear. Is it true that the two State Secretarys were already aware in July 2015 that the improvements in the pgb system would not be workable? Has any action been taken on that? What action has been taken? At the same time, we read in the attached letter from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment that the BIT report does not give any reason to revise the chain as such or to reconsider the implementation role of the SVB in the chain. Why is the Secretary of State so convinced of this? I'd like a response. There are no easy solutions. Continuing on the current route of improvement takes a lot of time, but that also applies to the alternatives. They were not realized overnight either. We must make sure this evening that we do not rush to decide on another implementing actor and therefore stop making improvements to the SVB. Because that didn't help budget holders either. The Christian Union certainly sees pluses in the alternatives that have been put forward, including, for example, the D66 plan on the basis of previous reports by Per Balance. We would like the two State Secretarys to examine this plan, as well as other alternatives that have been put forward in the debate this evening, partly because the report also states that the ICT project cannot be separated from the comprehensive improvement programme of the entire chain. For my group, it is important that the direction should be returned to the budget holder, that the system should be simple, at least not unnecessarily complicated, and that there should be a clear division of powers, with no control stacked. My group asks the cabinet to identify the alternatives, if necessary to attract outside expertise and at least not to let go of the SVB for the benefit of the budget holder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u82	Madam President. This evening, prior to this debate, I stumbled across another budget holder, whom I spoke to about this debate. He told me how he wrestled again last summer when he wanted a different arrangement for the holiday, another payout of the pgb. He told me how incredibly complicated that was. He went from the locker to the wall. It was really a kafkaesque situation. This shows how, despite all the efforts made to solve the nasty payout problems, there are still very vulnerable aspects of the current system. There is too much ping-pong and there are too many hoops to jump through. In short, it is too vulnerable. There's been an improvement plan. It needs to be better, simpler and more user-friendly. That plan has been vetted by the ICT Bureau. It is a good thing that this has happened and that it is also public. So we can see if it's really going to fly. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that the report is not a support, but rather a dagger in the back. It shows that there is a small chance of success, that the plan is seriously inadequate, that the project is too optimistic, that funding is unclear and that too little account has been taken of impacts on chain partners. That's not nothing. The cabinet says: we have listened carefully, we take the criticism with us and there will be an improved improvement plan. But is that enough? Colleagues have asked questions that I would like to join. What about the clientship, which should also be better regulated, with the costs and with the time planning? Apart from that, my group is left with the question: can we trust that the Social Insurance Bank is really the right implementing organisation to bring this to a successful conclusion? According to the cabinet, BIT says: improve the current chain step by step and beware of proclaiming a new revolution. I'd like to hear more about that from the cabinet. What exactly did the ICT testing agency say about this? If I allow myself to be criticised, I also wonder whether the Social Insurance Bank is in fact no longer a very good implementing body for mass production, for 'conference suits' that do not have a lot of changes. That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State for SZW. Isn't it very vulnerable to let the SVB also do this very sensitive customization? Is the SVB the right workshop for this customization? That is the more fundamental question we have with the SVB as implementation organisation. In this light, my group agrees that it would be wise, in addition to the option of continuing on the current road and making further improvements, to present other options. I therefore agree with colleagues who have made suggestions themselves, such as D66, or who call for other options, such as the VVD. For my group, it is certainly not clear that it will all be better, but I think it is wise to look at these different options in the short term, also in the light of the seriousness of the criticism that is now on the table. For example, we can see what is the best and most reliable system, which returns its own direction to the budget holder and is user-friendly. In the meantime, we must not wait for better times, but we must continue to improve the current system. That would be our route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u83	We have come to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u84	Mr. Chairman. One of the great supporters here just said you're definitely gonna start tonight, because it's International Women's Day. Well, I guess that's the case, and I do it with love. Let me be serious: I also love to do it because the Members of Parliament have, of course, made a substantial contribution to this debate. This debate was requested a long time ago by Mrs Keijzer of the CDA. The original reason was, as she herself said in her contribution, an episode of the program ZEMBLA about the MRS. I have already exchanged many words about this in the context of the SZW Committee. I can repeat all this here, but for the sake of short, I would like to say the following. We did stop MRS. Mrs Keijzer's question was not only timely here, but also that of other Members of Parliament. They naturally ask about the interaction between the MRS and the pgb, because this debate is also about the pgb. Mr Potters has also paid attention to this. I think it is good to say that in July 2013 the Council of Ministers decided to implement the drawing right in this way and that in September 2014, if I may say so, we pulled the plug from the MRS. So there was no tie-up. I think it is very essential to say that, as the owner of the Social Insurance Bank, I have, of course, taken great care from the outset that the two systems would not interfere with each other. So you can say that we have an ICT system for everything related to social security and that we also have an ICT system for everything related to pgb. Those two systems are not interconnected. I think it is good to stress this again, because it allows you to continue to support both ICT systems on a standalone basis from the Social Insurance Bank. That is therefore essential. Mrs Keijzer has, of course, asked a number of other questions. Indeed, in the letter of 2 September, I indicated exactly what the SVB Tien Change Programme looked like, what the MRS was part of. The SVB's change programme generated 158 million in benefits until August 2014. Annual structural savings of 30 million on the implementation costs of the SVB are still taking place. Stopping the ICT part cost 43.7 million, as Mrs Keijzer also said. Mrs Keijzer also asked, of course, to name but a man and horse, after Capgemini, who was very closely involved in this, because as a company it had the MRS under its care. She asked if I could say on behalf of SZW that Capgemini never will ever be on board again, because we are in an arbitration process with Capgemini about MRS. We're dealing with invitations to tender. That was also a point of attention from the Elias Committee. If the European Procurement Act is amended, it will be possible, under certain conditions, to exclude a particular company. The Minister for Housing and National Service will continue to inform the Chamber about this. We will, of course, follow this closely from SZW. My colleague from VWS will probably answer this question in the same way, but that is up to him. I am very keen to respond to Mrs Keijzer's question about the conflict of interest between the programme management of SVB Tien and Capgemini, which was suggested in the broadcast of ZEMBLA. The SVB has engaged forensic research firm Integis. This has been done by the investigation into the natural persons concerned and their companies. The study found that there is no revenue flow from these companies or from private money flows to relate to Capgemini, other than the contract related to the agreed transition management. Also between the two responsible programme managers of the SVB Ten programme, no cash flows have been identified that could be related to Capgemini activities. There is therefore no conflict of interest. I would like to say that here, because the two people in question were under considerable fire. I thought that was really bad. I really appreciate the fact that they've been cleared by this forensic investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u85	This debate actually has two objectives. We want to partly reflect on what did not go well in ICT at SVB and what we can learn from it. We also want to look at the future and how things can be different. When it comes to the question of how a number of things went wrong, we haven't stopped so much. I think it is good to do that, also because we have had the temporary committee on ICT projects with the government and the BIT advice. We want the government to step up its assessment of ICT procurement. I heard the Secretary of State mention two dates: 1 July 2013 as the start of the pgb and 1 July 2014 for stopping the MRS. There's an overlap in that period. Did the Secretary of State, when she noticed that the MRS was not working very well even more well, she had to advise to stop contacting the other Secretary of State to point out to him that he should be careful? After all, she noticed that the ICT management at the Social Insurance Bank was not working very well. Did she say that perhaps we should look at that again around the pgb, still a fragile file?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u86	Mr Potters explicitly asked about the decision-making process, also in its entirety from the cabinet. The decision to adopt this method of drawing was taken in July 2013. In September 2014, the plug was pulled out of the MRS. In July 2013 the MRS was still in full swing. In the upcoming 1 January 2015, all partners dealing with the right of draw were conclaved on a continuous basis to see how they could ensure that the case would be put to good use on 1 January 2015. The same applies to the SVB and to my ministry as owner of it. Of course, there was also interaction with the system manager, namely the Ministry of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u87	In the broadcast of ZEMBLA, we saw quite a disenchanting image. When we notice that things are not going well somewhere, for example in a part of a system, it is important that we learn that the whole ICT management could be better. Are we going to look at this more closely and more closely in the future? Indeed, we have had a very vulnerable pgb system, where ICT problems are again present. How do we prevent us from returning to the same situation in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u88	From my responsibility as owner of the SVB, I think this is a very important question. It is not for nothing that I look at the integral control, and specifically the ICT expertise within the SVB. Nor is it for nothing that, immediately after I became aware of the draft BIT report, I asked Mr Hakkenberg to use his expertise to ensure that there would be a good follow-up, because that is essential. I'll get back to you on that. I am also pleased that the Elias Committee has put forward outstanding issues. I was able to use that again by sending the SVB's draft plan to the BIT. That brings me immediately to the next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u89	Before you go any further, I would like to point out that there may be no more than three interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u90	Fine, Mr. Chairman. I'm not in charge of that, but I'm aware of that. You don't have to say it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u91	Yes, not with the Secretary of State, but in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u92	Then I come to the BIT opinion. That was very sturdy, and I'm not gonna beat around the bush about that either. I will tell you exactly what happened when I received that BIT advice, as Mrs Bergkamp asked for it. At the beginning of January I received a draft advice from the BIT. As a result of the report, the BIT procedure is as follows: The BIT provides a concept advice for administrative hearing and hearing. Two weeks later, the person responsible sends an administrative response. The BIT then provided a final opinion. The person responsible must then send this opinion to the Chamber within four weeks at the latest. All this is described in the BIT's institutional decision. I followed this procedure. The draft opinion was received on 11 January. On 26 January I sent the administrative response. The BIT sent me the final opinion on 28 January. This is what I sent to the Chamber three weeks and one day after with a response to the recommendation. This was the course of the BIT opinion. The content of the BIT opinion spoke for itself. I have just said that this has led me to ask Mr Hakkenberg to look at the SVB's ICT systems. This is also the answer to a question from Mr Potters. Mr Hakkenberg has started work and will produce a start note. The previous ICT plan will be transformed into a new decision-making plan. The BIT says that decision-making is not comme il faut both within the SVB and in the context of the chain. I think my colleague will say a few words about this in a moment. It is important that Mr Hakkenberg and Mr Martens together offer their findings to the chain director. It is good to mention Mr Martens as well, because he really is an ICT crack, if I may put it this way. In doing so, it is essential to examine with all chain partners which parts of the work agenda that are currently under work need to be adapted to the SVB's ICT. I think that's important, because it's a huge mix. I have listened carefully to the first term of the Chamber. The Chamber has said that alternatives should also be considered. My colleague will certainly take that up. If that were to work, I think we should also look at what this means for the SVB's ICT agenda. I would ask the Chamber to implement quickly the quick wins, if I may say so, which are of course also on the agenda. Those are the things that you can quickly change and improve, so that users really benefit from it. I'd be very sorry if I couldn't. I think it would be very pleasant if the House would report its own in the second term. I would like to comment on what Mrs Dik-Faber said, namely that the cabinet said that the BIT opinion does not give any reason to review the chain as such and to reconsider the SVB's implementation role. That is what we have stated in the letter to the Chamber, also because the CIO Empire has confirmed that this is not the intention of the BIT opinion. The BIT opinion therefore does not require the SVB to leave immediately. That is by no means the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u93	The Secretary of State just asked the Chamber to agree to quick wins. I would like to know which quick wins she means and what it will cost. It's a little too easy for me in this way. I actually have another question for this Secretary of State, but I'll put it at the end, because I think she'll be back on the ZEMBLA broadcast The spaghetti code. I was actually going to ask only the Secretary of State of VWS about the pgb, but listening to the Secretary of State of SZW and also considering today's article in the Volkskrant, I wonder the following. Is the standardized data exchange in the pgb chain between agencies such as the Ministry of VWS, municipalities and healthcare offices so well arranged that the Social Insurance Bank can ever make this a success? Aren't they really very happy at SVB when it's decided to put this project out of its misery, because it can never work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u94	This is, of course, a matter for me, and I shall be speaking for myself on the question of the extent to which there is confidence in the Social Insurance Bank, and that brings me on my own to answer Mrs Leijten's questions. I would like to stress once again that many Dutch people can make a stand on the task of the Social Insurance Bank. More than 40 billion euros are paid by the SVB to cases such as AOW and child benefit. In his contribution, Mr Van der Staaij asked a very specific question, namely whether a large implementation organisation such as the Social Insurance Bank is capable of providing customised services. The answer to that is yes. After all, there are many other things that the Social Insurance Bank has been responsible for over the past decade. One can think of the school books and the backpay scheme proposed by the VWS Secretary of State to the Chamber in December, for people from Indonesia at that time. The AIO for people with an incomplete AOW benefit, which is actually a task of the municipalities, is also carried out by the Social Insurance Bank. The answer to Mr Van der Staaij's question is therefore that the SVB is capable of doing customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u95	If we're going to do it this way tonight, I want three more interruptions, because this is actually a bizarre answer. First, the Secretary of State says that these are two separate systems and that what the Social Insurance Bank has always done is separate from the pgb. Then she says she has confidence in this, because the Social Insurance Bank has done so well before. By the way, that's not what my interruption was about. I'd like to do an interruption in two, Mr President, but that's how it gets complicated, because now I have to repeat my question. Does the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment believe that the implementation of the pgb at the Social Insurance Bank can be a success at all? I am thinking here of all the problems in the chain, the connection of municipalities, health offices and budget holders, and you name it all. Everything goes wrong there; see the opinion of the BIT. The Secretary of State was pleased with that advice. Isn't she actually happy when we say stop? Does this Secretary of State think that things aren't going to fly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u96	The whole pgb file has, of course, been fully discussed in the cabinet. Then it is clear that this Secretary of State also believes that the SVB can play its role in the chain. The answer to Mrs Leijten's question is therefore that I believe that at the end of the chain the Social Insurance Bank can do its job well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u97	Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u98	Oh, sorry, Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u99	We don't look that much alike now. Let me make it more concrete. I understand the Secretary of State for Social Affairs doesn't want to lose the Secretary of State for VWS. What is needed in the pgb chain to ensure that the process at the Social Insurance Bank goes well? Can the Secretary of State mention a few points?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u100	I think that the VWS colleague has often had an exchange of views with the Chamber on this matter. I also see that there are clear improvements to be made. I think it is important that the ICTs also take shape. To this end, this evening's debate has been cut off with the two leaders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u101	The Social Insurance Bank has an enormous amount of credit in our society. In many debates, I have said exactly how wonderful it is that the SVB seems to completely lose that with the implementation of the pgb right of draw. That would be a shame. I do not want to be put on the spot that we would give up trust in an agency. I think it makes sense to exempt the Social Insurance Bank from its task for the right of withdrawal, but I have clearly argued that. I have another question. I have read the letter from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs in which she responds to the opinion of the BIT report, which gives an insufficient response in all respects: partners are not taken into account, there is no financial picture, there is too optimistic planning and so on. First of all, why was this letter suddenly sent by the Secretary of State for Social Affairs? Maybe she can give a reflection on that. Furthermore, we read on page 2: "Otherwise, in the BIT opinion we see no reason to revise the chain as such or. reconsider the implementation role of the SVB in the chain." Was that the decision of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs or the decision of the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u102	This letter of attachment is, of course, a cabinet letter. It may therefore be clear that both Secretary of State agree with this letter, as an answer to Mrs Leijten's last question. I have just said in reply to this passage that the CIO of the BIT also said that it was not the intention of the BIT opinion to reconsider the implementation role of the SVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u103	It may well be that someone who tests a concept plan is feasible, whether the objectives and planning described are realistic and whether all the partners in the operation are known is not looking at an implementation role at all. However, when you read the results, if you know the history of a file, you can come to the conclusion that the performance role is not right there. So what this CIO Empire thinks doesn't matter. The Secretary of State has apologized, the Social Insurance Bank has apologized, the General Court says that citizens are disadvantaged and the National Ombudsman says that the citizens were in the cold. If a few months later there is such an incredibly rambling plan, you can come to the conclusion that we are just wrong. That could have been a conclusion!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u104	You really need to come to a question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u105	So you can't hide behind one person who's responsible for a report. Why does this Secretary of State, who is here as the spokesman for the cabinet, still have confidence that it will succeed, given all of history?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u106	Because I see that not only the SVB, but the whole chain is busy getting things going. I have also noticed that your Chamber has followed the situation incredibly closely and has made all kinds of suggestions for improvement. They've also been taken over to a large extent. The CIO of the BIT, which comes from the Elias Commission, has said to the cabinet, in very critical terms, that the SVB should not get away as an execution organisation at the end of the chain. It would be very strange for us to depart from that. According to the BIT, however, a lot of things need to be changed and improved. We have worked very hard on this. However, the CIO does not say that the SVB has to leave at the end of the journey, and we do not say that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u107	We're where we need to be now, because the government isn't saying it either. The government can't hide behind someone who's just taking a test on the feasibility of a plan. That doesn't make the policy; the government makes policy. We control policy. The Chamber today controls the government and says: you are not doing your job well. We do not want you to continue with this plan until you have examined alternatives. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so and to say so until then: this does not go further in the elaboration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u108	I just said I'm kicking ass today, not just for International Women's Day, you know. The tricky thing now is that the Secretary of State of the United States of America naturally takes up the alternatives that have been put forward. Should these alternatives indeed be developed, I think it is appropriate to consider what this means for the ICT pathway. That makes perfect sense to me. That's the Dan thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u109	The question of Dan is that you have heard the Chamber. The committee that deals with care happens to be one with many women, also on non-international women's day, so all year round. That doesn't make much difference to our position, because if the Chamber says 'we want the Social Insurance Bank to be reconsidered at least and alternatives selected', then surely you can't say that it's a "as-dan question'? You sign this letter. We have had the whole debate on this with the Secretary of State of the United States of America. You choose to sign this letter and thus, as a government manager, be behind the Social Insurance Bank after this critical BIT report. That is why I am asking you this question. The Chamber adjusts, controls the government and says: you're not doing your job well, it has to be different. Are you going to shut down this plan, too? That's not like-dan question, it's just what you've seen in majority in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u110	I have been a member of your Chamber myself, and it is good practice for the Chamber in the second term of the debate to give a very clear indication of how it is going to be adjusted. Then, of course, the cabinet looks at what this means. I don't make it prettier than it is, but I call it a like-dan question. Of course I'm looking at what the Chamber is giving us. Of course we will then see what we are going to do with it. This goes without saying, including in the ICT domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u111	I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, on women's day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u112	It is a good thing that we are having this debate on International Women's Day, because that is the day when women are always very nice to each other, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u113	That's a little harsh.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u114	I was provoked, Mr. Chairman, otherwise, of course, I would never have brought it up. On the question of whether the Social Insurance Bank is indeed the appropriate body to implement this scheme. In the first term, I had asked if they had no more experience with clothing suits, so to speak, than with suits. That's what the Secretary of State just responded to. Are the examples mentioned by the Secretary of State comparable in complexity, chain dependence and in complexity with the implementation of the personal budgets?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u115	The examples I mentioned, of course, always interact with another companion, if I may say so, or with a fellow government or fellow governments. The pgb is, of course, complicated in that sense, that you also communicate with the budget holder, the healthcare provider, the municipality and the healthcare office and are also dependent on it. So that chain is complicated, that's true. I notice that the whole chain is getting more and more dressed up, in the sense that everyone is doing what he is on earth. That is, of course, the essence. I regularly visit the SVB and in practice I see that this is getting better and better. But I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that this has proved to be a very complicated whole. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u116	The Secretary of State says this is a very complicated whole. My concern was, also in the light of the critical BIT report, whether we are not going to try to get customized on the assembly line. Are you sure it's gonna fly? Why is it taking much longer than was originally expected, and was later expected, to get things in order so that customization can be arranged effortlessly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u117	Look, the customization is already done, of course, but with a lot of handicrafts. We wanted to improve the ICT system so that we would need fewer hands and the care provider, the budget holder, could better understand his own budget in a pgb situation. If you want to improve that, as well as the portals, the ICT pathway is hugely important. But it is not the case that that customization would not be carried out at the moment. It only involves more handicrafts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u118	I would like to return to the question raised by Mrs Leijten, namely whether, in view of the BIT report, the SVB is the right organisation to continue this process. The Secretary of State replied that she sees good things happening. I would like to believe that there are people who really put their shoulders on, but we have been talking about this for a very long time, a year and three months since the introduction of the drawing right. I'd like to believe there's good will. But it is such a critical report and the Secretary of State says: I see the SVB doing it. I really need further justification for that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u119	It is important that the BIT report states that all the links in the chain matter. I notice that these links are getting closer and closer to each other. That gives me extra confidence in the whole thing. It is important that the SVB, which is of course dependent on all the data provided by the other links, gets better and better at the end of the ride. May I say something else, Mr. Chairman? I think it is wise for the Chamber not to say at this stage 'take the SVB out of the way', but to say: we do want to see if things can be done differently or better, but we also want to keep up what is going well for the people involved. It would be such a shame if we put that on hold now. Things are really getting better for people. Because I understand the reports of the SVB, I also notice that there are fewer calls and that the rapid response team has to do much less than ever before. Those are signals that indicate that it is moving in the right direction. I'll say it carefully. The SVB has been working for years to obtain the essential income provision from the Dutch. That's the expertise of the SVB. I really have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u120	I hear the Secretary of State say that improvements have been made. We've seen that, too. But these improvement steps have remained at the same level over the past six months. We see that it is very difficult to improve the last piece. I think that with the BIT report we have an important opinion on why things aren't getting better, why so much manual work is still needed, why payments take place without proper checks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u121	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u122	I am not hearing enough from the Secretary of State that much more really needs to be done. The Chamber has strongly urged, not least its own coalition partners, as the first to be publicly available, to move towards a different system and to explore alternatives. I wonder, if the Secretary of State also speaks on behalf of the Cabinet, whether those alternatives will have a fair chance if she continues to stick to the SVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u123	For the sake of clarity, I was asked whether I am confident that the SVB can do its job well at the end of the chain. My answer to that is yes. However, I have also listened carefully to the first term of the Chamber. My colleague is about to say a lot more about that. What the Chamber brings in is, of course, a great asset. Again, the question to me was whether I am confident that the SVB can properly execute the drawing right. My answer to that is: yes, I have that confidence. I shall now come to the letter from July, which Mrs Bergkamp asked for. When it comes to that letter, you have to look at the whole chain and not just at the SVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u124	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u125	Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Dik-Faber have concluded, following a newspaper report this morning, that there is apparently a letter dated 20 July 2015 and they are wondering what exactly is in it. On 20 July 2015, the SVB sent a letter to the Secretary-General of SZW, the Secretary-General of VWS and the chain director, asking in particular to apply a number of deadlines in the up-to-date version until 1 January 2016. Those deadlines have indeed been used, as the Chamber knows. The letter is involved in the administrative consultation of 3 September 2015. Through the letter of 4 September, the Chamber was informed about the results of the administrative consultation with all concerned chain partners, including, of course, the SVB. The deadlines have been implemented. 1 October was the deadline for the delivery of award messages and 1 December was the deadline for the delivery of the care agreements. I think that letter helped, let me say that in the direction of the SVB, because because of the deadlines, municipalities have looked much more closely at what they had to do in order to deliver on time everything they needed to give the caregivers what they needed from 1 January 2016. So that helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u126	The Secretary of State for SZW says that the letter was specifically about deadlines. Wasn't the letter also about the concerns about the direction in the chain? And weren't those concerns confirmed in the BIT opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u127	It is not that the BIT opinion confirmed the SVB's concerns, because the SVB was the institution that made the plan that was sent to the BIT. So that's not one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u128	I would like to ask a more comprehensive question. Wasn't the SVB's letter also paying attention to the fact that there were problems with the chain? We are always talking about the role of SVB, but when we see that the chain consists of more than 400 municipalities, health offices, the Social Insurance Bank, two departments and budget holders with a customized question, should we not see that this chain is a major problem at all? And isn't it true that the SVB actually signaled that in July 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u129	That was also the reason for the SVB to say in that letter to the two secretaries-general and the chain director: if we do not receive in time all the data needed to get things settled from 1 January 2016, then we will, so to speak, get back all those mail bags on 1 January 2016 and that is not possible. So we really must now state that we must have that data before a certain time limit. That is also taken seriously, really by all chain partners and also by the chain director. The chain director and the VNG have really started pushing and pulling to get all that data in time. So let me give the VNG a plume on this point as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u130	Proceed with your speech, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u131	Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Van Dijk asked about the costs and benefits of the new system. They also asked when such a new system could be operational. That is exactly what I asked Mr Hakkenberg and Mr Martens. They make that start note. That note will have a number of partials and will be offered to the chain director. I can imagine that being shared with the Chamber again. Ms Voortman noted that Ms Vermeulen, the chairman of the board, had left. Mrs Voortman asks if her departure had anything to do with this file. That was actually one-on-one Mrs Voortman's question. In my letter to the Chamber I wrote that there really is a new phase at the SVB. Now we really want to move forward with the reorientation. It needs to be shaped. I imagine that I will discuss SUWI with the members of the SZW committee next week during the AO. This new phase really requires new leadership. That was really the reason to enter Mrs Vermeulen's departure. That's what I reported to the Chamber. Of course, such a BIT advice doesn't help immediately. However, I would like to say that the most important thing here is that new phase of the SVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u132	Secretary of State Klijnsma now says Mrs Vermeulen had to clear the court. But Mrs Vermeulen got a job at Mrs Klijnsma's ministry. My question is why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u133	I don't think it's comme il faut to really go into a decorated person. I would like to say the following. This chairman of the board of directors of the SVB has, of course, done a number of things very well in recent years. Of course, she has also done a number of things wrong. That goes for all of us. However, it is certainly not the case that this President should be sidelined or should really be dismissed because she has taken so many wrong steps and that she could not be eligible for a new job. So she's welcome to my ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u134	This is unprecedented. Someone blunders and fails, but the Labour Party just gives them a job, a nice job in a ministry. That happens when my former colleagues and MPs of the PVV are simply excluded from everything, when they have never failed. But someone who's proven to have failed gets a nice job at the Ministry of Social Affairs. You can't do that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u135	I just want to say that I absolutely do not know what political context Mrs Vermeulen has. Mr President, I really do not think this is appropriate; I really do not. Mrs Voortman also asked if there would be a merger between UWV and the SVB. There is a commitment from 2014 to look at the repositioning of these ZBOs. It states that in 2017/2018 the Cabinet will examine the advantages and disadvantages of such a merger. The cabinet will take a position on this issue only after that investigation has been carried out on the basis of a very careful assessment of all the advantages and disadvantages. It is therefore not appropriate now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u136	Of course, you don't investigate something like that if by definition you don't see anything in it. But we know that the SVB and the UWV are big organizations. In addition, you wonder if the service is good there. There's a lot of criticism about that. Shouldn't you be wondering if we should even look at this? Don't we make an even bigger, more inaccessible organization?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u137	I know that the SZW Minister had an exchange of views with the Chamber on this matter. Next week we have an AO SUWI, which is of course about the UWV and the SVB. I propose that Mrs Voortman raise it there. But I am not saying for nothing that it will really have to be carefully weighed and that this could really come back to the Chamber after 2018. I say it very carefully, because I now rule beyond the limits of the present cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u138	I am happy to discuss this further in another debate, but my point is that you are considering something when you examine it. Is that what you're supposed to want? I also see that it is better to discuss this at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u139	I'm looking at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u140	I'm at the end of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u141	I asked a question at the beginning of the first term of the Chamber. This is the time to reflect on how things may have turned out the way they have. I understand that the Secretary of State speaks highly of the SVB, its implementation organisation. But the feeling in the majority of the Chamber is that the BIT report really means that we have to make a pass on the spot and that it must be very special if we are to continue with the SVB in this route of the pgb. I'd like to hear that sense of the Secretary of State. Otherwise, it seems as if we are debating an alternative here, while we are simply continuing along this road. I do not think that can be the purpose of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u142	That is why I have tried very carefully to point out that I have listened carefully to the first term of the Chamber, that I naturally continue to follow this debate and the results of its follow-up and that this will, of course, have repercussions for what you do or do not do in the completion of the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u143	Isn't it better for the SVB not to go to another ICT assignment to arrange this, but to help manage the transfer to another organisation properly? Perhaps the SVB should make a pass on its own because it has quite a few ICT projects in its name that have not succeeded. I do not want to disqualify the SVB, but we must be critical about the ICT management from the Social Insurance Bank, because we see that things are not going well with the MRS and with the pgb.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u144	I would like to say that many ICT pathways are going well with the SVB. That's what externals are underlining. So it's not so black and white, in no way. Thankfully, MRS and BIT are on their own. But I understand Mr Potters very well, and that means that I am going to listen very carefully to the rest of this debate and to what results from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u145	This is your last interruption, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u146	Mr President, I do not think that is correct, but I will come to you later, because it is a waste of time to do so in plenary. The reason the Secretary of State for Social Affairs is here is the broadcast of Zembla. I found the answer to that very disappointing. I should like to hear from the Secretary of State once again how that amount of 43 million damage has been substantiated. Is there anything else on the so-called India Route? Which projects were bought off or suitable for? What has the Secretary of State done recently when all this information became known?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u147	It is indeed a bit short-sighted, but I have referred to all the debates that have taken place with the SZW committee on the cessation of MRS and on the opacity to that halt. I would like to say a few words about, for example, the resources that were at stake. The construction of 43.7 million is the construction, installation and implementation of the MRS, the execution of the improvement plan and the pass on the site. The latter part concerned the cessation of development and the costs involved. As regards the Indian route, the tender was clear that Capgemini also worked with people from India. There was nothing wrong with that either, since the construction of MRS was a public tender with the result obligation of the various components and phases of the Multi-scheme system. Capgemini made an offer based on Oracle's packages in which it was known in advance that Capgemini would use parts of its capacity in India. None of that is new. Zembla didn't bring up anything new about that either. I found it pleasurable to give the two people who are badly represented by Zembla here some sort of restoration of honour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u148	I find it unimaginable that the Secretary of State says that the Indian route was nothing wrong. If you look closely at that documentary, there's a lot wrong with it. The fact is that the Multi-scheme system has been discontinued and that it seems that there is still an arbitration going on. It's been running since July 2014. As far as I am concerned, this is not the end of the matter. I find the answer more than disappointing. I happened to check that broadcast again this afternoon. Now, the Secretary of State doesn't go any further than: there was nothing wrong with it. 100 million is the amount that was mentioned. Okay, well, this is being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u149	I didn't say anything wrong with this. I said we pulled the plug from the MRS. We didn't do that for nothing. I also said that I was responsible for this in the Chamber in another setting. So I think this is too short, if I may say so. I'm very attached to saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u150	Mrs Keijzer, you still have one more interruption, so you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u151	While we're talking about the costs and pulling the plug somewhere, before you plug in somewhere, you must of course know how much it costs. We are also talking about the envisaged new pgb-ICT system that BIT is so merciless about. Isn't it strange that we don't know how much that costs? Then you don't know whether to say yes or no to anything? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u152	I did not ask the two gentlemen I mentioned, Mr Hakkenberg and Mr Martens, for nothing to make all the sub-plans clear, including in terms of finance. This needs to be made clear to the whole chain, because the clients, the municipalities and the health offices, of course, need to know how much they should be going to be. There really are choices here and they also bear the financial foundation. In the plan of these two gentlemen that will certainly come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u153	I think the Chamber has indicated that it would like to make a pass on the spot. But is it not strange that a draft plan is being drawn up in which there is no idea of the costs yet? Can the Secretary of State give that a qualification? After all, that is something special.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u154	During the development of such a plan, you will of course look at the precise parts and their financial significance. I think it is very important for the other chain partners to understand how much the different portals would yield. Let me just put it this way. I also said, in reply to Mr Van der Staaij's question, that if fewer people in the SVB have to do jobs around the pgb and the right to draw because it is captured by ICT, then there is also income. You're gonna have to get rid of all that in your financials.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u155	Thank you for your answer. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I see Mrs Leijten standing at the interrupting microphone, but the Secretary of State has yet to respond. Do you have an order proposal, Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u156	I have a question for the U.S. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u157	No, we're really not gonna do that. I'm sorry. I shall first give the floor to the Secretary of State of VWS for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u158	Mr. Chairman. It might be good to remind you at what time we're standing here right now. I have lost count a little bit, but I believe that this is the tenth debate on this issue. In all these debates, the question has been raised: how are we going to proceed in view of the problems that became apparent at the beginning of 2015? We agreed that we would focus as much energy and attention as possible on stabilising payments, that we would then focus on the best possible annual transition and that we would then talk about improving and simplifying the system. I would like to point out from this point of view that the stabilisation and the year-to-year transition that we are now achieving are still talking about the figures on 23 March and the fact that we are now where we stand and that we can talk about these improvements and simplifications is largely due to the incredible commitment of the employees of the Social Insurance Bank in the past period. I would like to say this because an incredible effort has been made to achieve this situation. It's not good for a long time. There's still a lot of things in there. Some say there's a lot of workarounds. We all know that much remains to be done, but the fact that we are here today and that we are talking about further improvements and simplifications is due to the enormous effort made by the employees of the Social Insurance Bank. I would like to emphasise that. So we are talking about these improvements and simplifications. There are questions in the Chamber about this. In view of the BIT opinion, it is asked whether it is justified to continue on the same path. In my view, that is at the heart of the questions that are being asked. The Chamber therefore also puts forward a number of other ideas and suggestions. She actually says: shouldn't you start thinking about other models? Whatever model you're in, you're dealing with different players, healthcare offices, municipalities and budget holders, with which you have to make agreements about prior or ex post control. Whatever you invent, a few elements always play a role, such as the question of whether or not there should be more uniform and standardized, whether there should be fewer hoops, whether it should not be much more user-friendly for the budget holder and whether there should not be much more responsibility for the provider. Also in the Social Insurance Bank's plan we have to look at the division of responsibility, because the Social Insurance Bank also points out that at the end of the journey too many control tasks have been assigned to him. This was in response to questions put by Mrs Keijzer in an earlier context. Aren't you supposed to look at the division of responsibility no matter what you make up? The answer to that question is that this must indeed be done, especially when designing the new payment system. The debate has highlighted whether or not other options should be considered and whether they should at least not be held against alternatives or other proposals. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the proposal to see whether the municipality should not be given a much heavier role, as it would bring the provision and payment of services closer together and facilitate access to the budget holder. The variant has also been put forward whether the steering wheel should not be placed in the hands of the budget holder by letting him come to a blocked account. I say it a little simple, but it is the wishes of the Chamber that we must look very seriously at, not because we suddenly have to go to another system, but because we all have to believe in a next step, given the history and given what the Chamber has put forward. There must be sufficient support and we must have sufficient confidence that it is a good process. That is why I, like the Chamber, attach great importance to weighing it against alternatives. I'm just gonna take that point right away. We must ensure that the proposal has sufficient support in the Chamber, sufficient support in the chain, that is to say, in the municipalities, the health offices and the budget holders, and above all that it is going to bring those changes that we are all looking for. The picket posts that Mrs Voortman slammed, namely that it should be simpler, that it should be primarily about the people and that it should be unambiguous, are also, in my opinion, very justified principles and criteria for any solution. I am convinced that we can weigh different proposals against each other in order to come to a good plan for the future. I only think it would be very good if we tried to bring that about as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u159	Before the Secretary of State started answering his question, I would have liked to ask him if he had been removed from the file. When the letter was signed, only Mrs Klijnsma's name was mentioned. Mrs Klijnsma said in her reply that she would not answer questions like that and that she would wait for the second term of the Chamber to see whether a possible halt to the implementation of the ICT plans would be necessary. But the answer is already there. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs has every confidence in the Social Insurance Bank and is not yet ready to investigate alternatives, but less than ten minutes later, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, who stopped the alternatives for a year, says that we actually need to make a proper assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u160	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u161	What cabinet are we dealing with here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u162	Quite simply, if I am asked whether I am confident that the Social Insurance Bank could implement a number of measures properly, my answer is 'yes, it could'. However, the Court sees a number of reasons for saying that it wants to weigh very well the advantages and disadvantages of a number of models. I take that very seriously. Nor can we say that we can already see that the proposal to bring it to the municipality or D66's proposal to put the wheel in the hands of the budget holder is blissful. Mrs Bergkamp herself said that she did not know if this was Columbus' egg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u163	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u164	The Secretary of State is speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u165	She asked whether we would at least look very seriously at it. My answer to that is that it is very important to take a serious look at that. Why? It is not good if there is a discussion as to whether it is right for the Social Insurance Bank to do it, or whether it is wise for the municipalities to do it, or whether budget holders should not be given more control. These are relevant questions, which you should not let float above the market at the beginning of the process. We need to resolve these questions with each other so that we can set a clear course and manage it in the right direction. That's exactly the course I want to sail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u166	What government are we dealing with now? We get a letter signed by Secretary of State Klijnsma, while Secretary of State Van Rijn does the debate for a year. He apologizes. He embraced the Social Insurance Bank when it apologized. He received a slap on the wrists of the General Court of Auditors and the National Ombudsman. He has the Secretary of State for Social Affairs answer: no, no, no, this plan is not going into the fridge at all. And: I have heard the Chamber, but I await the second term. In that twenty-minute suspension, has it been agreed that Secretary of State Klijnsma should give the annoying answers and that then Secretary of State Van Rijn of VWS could say: I have listened to the Chamber, we have to have support and we are going to make other considerations? I can't tie a rope to it anymore. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs just said that my letter of 19 February is standing. Now I ask the U.S. Secretary of State: is that letter of 19 February standing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u167	Yes, of course. There's...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u168	But that letter was referred to the trash can! The Chamber has said that it does not agree with the letter of 19 February. Actually, all the MPs have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u169	Maybe it's an idea for the Secretary of State to go into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u170	Let me get this straight. A BIT opinion on a plan has been requested. That's a judgment coming out of it. The question was: does this mean that the Social Insurance Bank could not do it? There is no such judgment. The BIT opinion does not justify this. That's what the letter says. The BIT opinion does not justify this, as has also been confirmed by the CIO of the ICT Examination Office. That doesn't change the fact that we can discuss each other. Shouldn't we consider other models as well? Shouldn't we see if there are any alternatives? Shouldn't we see if it can be solved in any other way? However, that is not the case, and it must be possible to do so. On the one hand, we have a critical assessment of the validity of the plan. On the other hand, there is perhaps the opinion of the Chamber that it will never work again. I heard the room right. The Chamber says that this is a critical opinion and it is therefore not obvious that we can continue along this path. That's right. There are also alternatives. We need to get a good look at that. Not only for the Chamber, but also for all those parties in the chain that will have to do it later, such as the municipalities and the health offices, and not least for me: firstly, for the budget holders, in whose interest it is that we have a good system, I think it is important to consider all the proposals that are there very well, so that we can make a responsible choice with each other. I'm very attached to that. This seems to me to be in the interest of the budget holder, of the chain and of the Social Insurance Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u171	Mrs Leijten, you can ask one question and then it's really done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u172	I just asked the Secretary of State for Social Affairs: "You have heard that the Chamber wants alternatives and that it wants them for the summer. There's a majority for that. Until then, will you stop the ICT plans for the implementation of the right of draw by the Social Insurance Bank?" Then the answer was no. Now the U.S. Secretary of State says we're gonna look at everything seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u173	Well, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u174	I can't tie a rope to that. If this is the way it is, I can imagine that 150 million has gone down the drain in the implementation of the drawing right. We're just seeing the problem here. Social Services says otherwise than VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u175	The Chamber can assume that we are indeed very much in agreement. We will continue to do so. The same goes for today. If we decide with each other to implement the plan of the Social Insurance Bank or the plan to get municipalities to do more, so to find a different balance sheet in the responsibilities, or if we decide to put the budget holder more at the wheel, or if we decide on a combination of things, then implementation of such a system change will take some time and we will still have to work on improvements in the current system in 2016. I am thinking, for example, of the portals, more uniformity and more user-friendliness. We're gonna have to do that with each other anyway. I am therefore looking for a decision on the basis of as many considerations as possible and with support for the solution finally chosen. In the meantime, we need to work on improvements that are obvious, that we have agreed with each other, that are "no regret" in terms of the systems and that ensure that the process continues as well as possible, so that we can support the budget holder as best we can. The Chamber understands that I want to do this very carefully. I have a few conditions in this regard, including the question of a further investigation. Let us not in any way jeopardise the stability that we are now achieving with regard to payments. It is very important that this does not happen. That is an important criterion for me. The weighing of new considerations, criteria and other ideas must also be an orderly process. We shouldn't say, "Let's do this again." If we are to consider other things, we must provide them with criteria and see what the advantages and disadvantages are, what the costs are and how we can weigh them. Besides, it has to be true. We should not just go to another system. It must also be possible to carry out. In the Chamber, the alternatives were very often asked whether someone else could afford it. I would point out that many of the problems we have experienced over the past year have not only been payment problems, I say carefully, but also supply discussions in the chain. Often the SVB got a bit on its head because there wasn't a quick and sufficient payment, but in some cases the SVB couldn't do anything about that because there was a very late delivery of data. We have had to take a number of emergency measures together to tackle this. You can go to another payment system, but that wouldn't solve the problem of supplying the data. We need to look at the overall picture, not only at the payment, but also at whether the data delivery is correct, at the agreements in the chain and the budget holder that should be treated customer-friendly. It is very good to look at the alternatives, but with care and caution. We must not compromise stability. It must be an ordered process. We have to look not only at payments, but at the whole chain. That's in everyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u176	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Questions have also been asked by MPs. Does he intend to answer it after this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u177	That's what I'm doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u178	I'll go to Mrs. Bergkamp first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u179	I would like to make Mrs Leijten's question even more clear, because that is not clear to me either. Is the Secretary of State now saying that he will continue to make some improvements to the current system, and I can imagine that, because that should just go ahead and stop the investment in a new system, after hearing the Court's first term of office that several alternatives will be examined?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u180	Whatever decision we would make, whether it is improving or renewing the existing system or a variant around municipalities or sending the budget holders, that should lead to decision-making around the summer. A number of things need to be figured out. The costs must be shown. Mr Van Dijk was right to ask. Around the summer you should come to such a type of decision-making. In the meantime, let us continue to work on the issues that are 'no regret', with any system, so that we can make a responsible decision about the route we will eventually follow in the overall renewal around the summer. That's very good to combine. I am not sure whether Mr Potters would like to ask that question, but answer in advance. I would like to do my best to submit that consideration to the Chamber before the summer, so that the ins and outs and pros and cons can be weighed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u181	That wasn't exactly my question. My question was whether there would still be investment in a new system at SVB. We read in the BIT report that a new ICT system needs to be developed. My question to the Secretary of State is: will it be stopped for the time being until the Chamber decides on an alternative for the summer recess? The chain is of course extremely important for its functioning. The Secretary of State is right to say that if you don't get information properly implemented, you have a big problem at the end of the chain. What's gonna happen to that? I understand that, for example, in the case of health offices, the problem is much less serious than in the case of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u182	That's right. The short answer is yes. If we're going to weigh up what's going to be the best route, you don't have to do an innovation in advance that you're gonna regret. I had the impression, moreover, that the Minister of State had said the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u183	Mr. Potters. Yes, Mrs. Bergkamp, an informative question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u184	I also asked whether it was true that the problem at the health offices is less serious with the delivery data than with the municipalities and how this happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u185	Yeah, that's right. This has to do with the nature of the pgbs and their size, and with the fact that some of them are new tasks, which had to be returned to the municipalities. The health offices had some experience. On the one hand, it has a historical cause and, on the other, it is due to the nature of the pgbs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u186	Mr Potters, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u187	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I'll stick to it. We are always inclined to have a very substantive debate here on how we should deal with the pgb and what the right choice is. That's good, because that's what we're here for. However, it is also a political debate. I think the political debate is very clear. In the first term it has become clear that the majority of the Chamber says: it is probably not going to fly at the Social Insurance Bank. And then I'm gonna say it very neatly. It is important that we really radiate that political signal together and take a serious look at an alternative. Now I hear too much from the Secretary of State: there may be alternatives, I will weigh them down for a while and then I will make a decision. In my view, the political signal given here by a majority of the Chamber is very important, at least from that point of view. Could there be more reflection on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u188	I would like to take the other proposals as seriously as the renewal proposals for the existing system. They all have to have an equal chance. It would not be good if we put it on the table now: we already know it, but we have to weigh everything against each other just as well. Mr Potters said he might already know. That might be possible, but I also heard him say that we should give it a fair chance, so that we can properly weigh the best approach on a number of criteria that we have in common. This could be an approach that excludes a different approach. It can also be an approach that is combinable. So yes, I take the alternative ideas and proposals very, very seriously. I don't say that for nothing. I think that they should also be properly balanced against what happens if you renew and improve the existing system. This gives the Chamber as complete a picture as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u189	Finally, Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u190	A debate like this is also about the recognition of a situation that has arisen. I am the first to acknowledge that as a Chamber we thought it was a good idea to place this with the Social Insurance Bank. We have had a long time of confidence in this; some Members of Parliament have had less time than others, but we have had a long time of confidence in it. Now we are about to say: perhaps we should think very carefully about whether we are moving in the right direction. I would like to highlight this point, because we have a tendency to discuss this only in terms of content, and I think we also want to send out a very clear political signal. I want to make that point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u191	But I share that urgency with Mr Potters. If you are on the verge of achieving that improvement and renewal, you have to look very carefully at whether this investment is good in terms of costs, but above all for the people, for the chain and for a sustainable right to draw. That is exactly why the Chamber says: do not continue along the same road, but at least see whether alternative proposals are better. That's very important. I'm not saying that for nothing. It is in all our interests to do so. I'll let the Chamber ask you to do that. I think I can ask the Chamber to give all the proposals that are there a fair chance, so that we can weigh them very well and make a good balance, hopefully around the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u192	Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a return to the old way of working in his exploration of the possibilities? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u193	That's because we're...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u194	Is it no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u195	It is no, because you are proposing to abolish the right of draw. I did not understand from the Chamber that that wish was shared by a majority. Moreover, it is very important that the right of drawing and its objectives are properly designed for the budget holders in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u196	We all know there's only an automated system since 2018. That is the big problem: a Secretary of State who is going to explore the options and possibilities and does not want to take into account the method used so far, just because the Chamber would not want a right of draw. No, that automated drawing right system can only be automated from 2018 and not now. So would go back to the old system until there's an automated system, just have to be included in that reconnaissance. But no, then we get the honor of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u197	With honor, I have nothing. I have a thing for: can we create a system that serves the budget holder in a good way? We have decided for good reasons to proceed to a draw right variant. We now have a system which, while leading to stability in payments, shows that there is still a great deal to be done. This means that we are on the verge of taking investment decisions. I think it would be wise to look at and consider exactly the advantages and disadvantages of the different variants. That only makes the story stronger. I repeat: that means that we can make good decisions not only for the Chamber, but also for the chain itself and for the budget holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u198	That reconnaissance isn't worth anything if you refuse to take it back to the old M.O. The Secretary of State has gone crazy. He wanted to introduce a drawing rights system without informing the Chamber without having been an automated, functioning system. The Secretary of State is responsible for this mess. The Secretary of State says: but I'm not going back to the old system, you know, because I'm just working on a new system. There's only a new system in 2018. So that's still two whole years. The Secretary of State is working on his honor. If you want to explore in an objective way what you can do best until 2018, you should go back to the old way of working. Of course, that wasn't a perfect system either, but it was a system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u199	We have chosen to introduce the right of draw for good reasons. Now we are talking about how this can be redesigned in the best way possible. We disagree: Mrs Agema wants to go back to the old system and I do not want to go back there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u200	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u201	I've asked for the return to the old system to be included in the reconnaissance, and the Secretary of State refuses to do so. I haven't actually heard any argument as to why he doesn't want to take that with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u202	The BIT considers that this project is unlikely to succeed in its current design. That's nothing new. These opinions have been reached by the State Secretary, as far as I have looked back, since January 2014. Something strange is happening here tonight; Mrs Leijten was already on it in her interruption. On the one hand, the Secretary of State, and now Mrs Klijnsma apparently also, says that we are stopping developments and investments in the Social Insurance Bank, but on the other hand we are going to look into the alternatives how we can keep the Social Insurance Bank in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u203	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u204	It's not even time to say, people, this isn't gonna fly like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u205	I'm not trying to tell you that this isn't gonna fly like this. I'm particularly concerned about how we're gonna do it. I note that there are different views in the Chamber on what would be the best way forward. This may be in the way that we have gone forward so far, but, given the BIT opinion, there have been a number of reservations and reservations. I understand that very well. A number of other proposals have also been made. I understand that very well. I think it would be wise for the Chamber to look at the best route, which is not only gaining support in the Chamber, which I think is very important for the future of the system, but also in the field, at health offices and municipalities. In particular, we need to focus on a system that is as good, user-friendly and simple as possible for budget holders, otherwise this will remain an empty discussion. We can all see that this is not going to fly, but we have to look for the plane that is going to fly and has that support in the Chamber. I would like to do justice to the different views that exist in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u206	The BIT says: the plan does not take sufficient account of the pgb chain, the feasibility is not well thought out, the SVB estimates the project too optimistic and the funding is still unclear. If I ask the SZW Secretary of State for three points that need to be improved in order to ensure that it does, she shook a bit and referred to the Secretary of State for VWS. He's saying something different than the other Secretary of State. Isn't that just the problem? Is the problem not that there is insufficient consultation between the two State Secretarys, which means that there is insufficient clarity as to what needs to be done in the chain to make it fly or run or drive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u207	I can assure Mrs Keijzer that there is sufficient consultation. Whatever system you think of, whether you improve the existing system or renew the system, you'll have to make a lot of decisions about what else needs to be done. After all, we have found that things have to be different. You need to standardize and standardize. The portals need to work better. The number of hoops should be reduced. The data delivery should run smoothly. Those are all things you should improve. This also applies to any other system. For example, you may ask yourself whether there is a possibility of a variant in which the municipalities have a larger role. Before we do that, I want to check whether municipalities want and can do that, and what it means for delivery. Does that apply to all municipalities or just a few? That's the kind of thing I'll look into in the reconnaissance. These are very relevant questions, to which you must have answers before you can choose a particular variant. The same applies to the variant where the steering wheel should be more in the hands of the budget holder. Then you have to ask yourself who's going to check the care agreements, what about the declarations and who's going to check the blocked account. That's the same kind of question. I therefore call for this to be set out very clearly so that we can make a well-founded decision together on the step forward. Until then, until summer, we need to make it in place. In the meantime, however, we must make the investments we intended to make and those of no interest to the larger decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u208	I think it is indeed a good route to put a number of variants next to each other, rather than immediately switching to something else and running new risks again. We have to prevent that by definition. Will the Secretary of State also make use of the expertise of the people who need the system for user-friendliness?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u209	Sure. Mrs Voortman mentioned a number of conditions in her contribution. It must be simple, it must be for the people and there must be good control. I subscribe to those terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u210	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u211	I would ask the Secretary of State to answer only those questions that have not yet been answered, otherwise we will be repeated. After all, there is also a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u212	I think I've brought a lot of questions. A specific question has been asked about something in the BIT opinion, namely whether the dg Long-term Care should do it and why we choose the chain directors. That is because we have received an opinion from the Court of Auditors earlier. The Court recommends that the chain management be shaped in a more independent way. Why? Because this would better reflect the interests of the health offices and the municipalities, so that there would be no role mix with VWS. So this is not a reduction in responsibility, but rather a clarification of the chain management. Mrs Voortman mentioned a point in her question which I do not want to leave unspoken. She said: make sure that there is sufficient ingenuity with regard to the budget holders. I think she said it differently, but she kind of talked me into it. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan benadrukken dat dat mijn leidmotief, mijn uitgangspunt, is en blijft.]] I myself have put great emphasis on the stability of payment and the emergency measures, on which the Chamber has adopted a motion. This is precisely intended to ensure that payments remain stable. If it doesn't, and people suffer from it, it's terrible. The problems haven't all been solved yet. I note, however, that stabilisation is taking place and that the path has been taken. It is aimed precisely at the budget holder, who, of course, has to be paid as much as possible. The motion tabled at the time remains in force. We cannot remove the emergency measures until we have the confidence that all the problems have been solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u213	My comment came in response to the answers given by the Secretary of State to "Sp.A.R.A.'s questions about the fact that sometimes people spend a whole day in administration. The reaction of the cabinet actually meant that people choose a pgb themselves. I do not want people to get the impression that the pgb is discouraged in this way or that it is up to them themselves to do so. When one spends a whole day a week on the administration for the pgb, it shows that something needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u214	Maybe we'll be closer to each other than we seem. I believe in another debate that I have been to a pgb initiative, a small initiative of a nursing home. This initiative has been funded by the pgb and good agreements have been made between the initiative and the healthcare office. They have looked at whether they can arrange this normally with each other, without a great deal of administrative trouble for the budget holders. 90% of the people were very happy with that. We must continue to look for good and very simple ways to make this happen properly. Sometimes the existing offer also needs to be made more flexible, so that it is not necessary for people to have a pgb because otherwise they cannot get care. Mrs Leijten sometimes referred to this as a 'personalised budget'. It shouldn't be. So yes, it should be simpler, but the existing offer should also be more flexible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u215	I couldn't agree more. When we hear that people spend a whole day working on the administration of the pgb, I think we also agree that this should be changed. We cannot say: you choose a pgb! I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u216	Yeah, we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u217	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u218	We have discussed the alternatives. The same goes for Mrs Dik-Faber's questions about the fact that you should not throw away old shoes before you have new ones. This is also in line with Mr Van der Staaij's contribution. He said it might be good to see what the best way forward is if you look at what has already happened. This and also this debate reminded me of an ancient Bible spell, namely 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 21: "Taste all things; preserve the good."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u219	Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office. Mrs Keijzer is the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u220	This debate has been very special to me so far. I would like a five-minute suspension to consider whether I will table a motion in the second term, and if so, which one. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u221	Yeah, sure, if the others are okay with it. I see that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u222	Mr. Chairman. For me, this has been a bit of an odd debate. In any case, it has become clear to me that two ministries are too many. This was apparent from the reply and sometimes almost from the body language of the Secretary of State. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that SZW's Secretary of State has confidence in the SVB as a contributor to the pgbs and wants to investigate alternatives to VWS;]] [[noting that this makes it clear that the pgb-debacle was partly caused by the control from two ministries;]] [[points out that in the variants to be examined, at least one ministry is responsible and directing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is unclear which steps in the improvement plan pgb SVB will be taken and which will not be taken;]] [[calls on the government to send the Chamber an overview of which improvements are to be made and which are not to be made and what their costs are to be;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-395]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-396]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u223	The CDA has been clear. As far as my group is concerned, the SVB is going out. This system isn't gonna fly like this. We understand that this wasn't introduced tomorrow. At least we learned that from the pgb-debacle. Finally, I would like to say that the answers of the SZW Secretary of State to the questions on the ZEMBLA broadcast The spaghetti code are disappointing. We will come back to that later, because it is really great what is happening in this area in ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u224	Mr. Chairman. In the many debates we had with the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport he said: I am the one responsible for the implementation of the right of draw at the pgb. When I received the letter of 19 February, signed by Mrs Klijnsma, I thought: gosh, would he have been taken off the file, because of the excuses the Social Insurance Bank and himself had to make, because of the General Court who considered that citizens had been in the cold and because of the National Ombudsman who got over it again? No, tonight it turned out that both State Secretarys are responsible, but the Cabinet doesn't really speak with one voice, because Secretary of State one says we're going to continue with the plan and Secretary of State two says he's going to investigate all the alternatives again. I think it would be wise for the Chamber to decide on the following. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas alternatives are identified as regards the future of the right of pgb extraction;]] [[calls on the Government not to make further investments in the new ICT system until the final choice on the implementation of the right of withdrawal has been made,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-397]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u225	Then I would like another answer from, I think, the U.S. Secretary of State to the question I asked in the first term. He has always answered these questions. How can an organisation, the Social Insurance Bank, which has been so in the wind, which has harmed citizens' interests and apologized, come up with an ICT plan that, according to the ICT-Tuting Office, has failed on all sides? I haven't had an answer to that. The analysis of this tells us a lot about how to proceed with this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u226	Mr. Chairman. I also thought it was a curious debate. We've heard from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. She said the SVB is doing well. When I asked her why she gave a job to the failing chairman of the SVB, she reacted as if she was stabbed by a wasp. If you're the ultimate responsible for giving a job to a failing driver at your own ministry, can't I just ask questions about that? The Secretary of State also said that we have spoken before in the Chamber about the 100 million wasted with the MRS. I am also thinking of the 152 million that is being pulled through the pump. The Secretary of State says, "If this ends, we'll have a earner." If I wash €30 down the toilet every day and stop doing it one day, don't I suddenly have money? What I am very sorry about is that the caregivers, the caregivers and the care institutions are the victims of this. I think they're under-exposed by these two systematically working State Secretarys. Everything was destroyed by the Secretary of State, who did not inform the Chamber nor asked for an agreement. An automated system is only available from 2018. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government is exploring all alternatives to the current right of withdrawal;]] [[calls on the government to also take the option of going back to the old way of working, until there is a proven automated drawing right system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-398]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u227	Finally, these Secretary of State live on a planet other than the approximately 112,500 chronically ill and disabled people who are sacrificed by keeping this system in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u228	Mr. Chairman. I was wondering during this debate what the budget holders would think of this debate. Is it gonna get better for them now? Is there a view of that? We do not find the answers to these questions in the response of both heads of government. The future is uncertain, and that is serious. The profit of the debate is that the directors will seriously investigate what alternatives there are. D66 has tabled a separate plan on this subject, and this is the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the implementation of the current right of drawing is not sufficiently robust and user-friendly to function in the long term;]] [[Whereas it is important that a decision be made as soon as possible on the course to be taken;]] [[calls on the Government to respond to the proposal proposed by the D66 Group, which returns the direction to the budget holders, and to inform the Chamber about it by the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-399]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u229	There is one more thing I have to say, namely that BIT has fulfilled a very important function in this matter. It's been some kind of wake-up call. That's pretty harsh, because of course there were sounds a lot earlier. We talked about the letters in July 2015. It's kind of hard to tell. But I am glad that at least we have a BIT opinion. That was the trigger, I think, also for the rulers, to investigate an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u230	Chairman. I can only agree with Mrs Bergkamp's last remark. The central point of the debate was that it was widely stated in the Chamber that alternatives to the implementation of the right of draw should be considered. The question is: does someone else than the SVB have to do it or can the SVB keep doing it? Should the execution perhaps go to municipal or health offices? Before we make a decision on this, it is important to examine the alternatives carefully. You don't want to switch to another performer and then come to the conclusion that there are new problems again. That's what gets the people who it's about. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas solving the difficulties in implementing the drawing right for the personalised budget at the Social Insurance Bank will continue for a long time;]] [[Whereas alternatives to the implementation of the drawing right are therefore being examined;]] [[considers that consideration of alternatives should be based not on the system but on the desired criteria, in order to put the position of budget holders at the centre;]] [[calls on the Government to review at least the following criteria in the examination of alternatives to the implementation of the right of draw by the Social Insurance Bank:]] [[the system must be based on budget holders;]] [[simplification of the system for budget holders;]] [[clear direction for budget holders and caregivers, including the advantages and disadvantages of a single point of contact;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-400]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u231	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two Secretary of State for their first-term replies. If the debate has produced one thing, in addition to some of my colleagues' qualifications, which I sometimes understand, it is at least the point of profit that we are looking for alternatives. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, we are really making a pass when it comes to investing in new ICT systems at the Social Insurance Bank, with the exception of what Secretary of State Klijnsma of Social Affairs called the "quick wins" to keep the system running and at least make it more customer-friendly for the short term. As far as we are concerned, we are really looking for alternatives and we are also weighing them against each other. We are not going to look for a system next to the current system; we are going to have really different systems, which we have to assess on the basis of a number of criteria. For the PvdA, the key point is that the management should at least be with the budget holder, that it is simple and customer-friendly and that payment is made on time. To call upon the cabinet to do so, I shall table a motion together with Mr Potters of the VVD. He'll file it in his term. It is also important that we speed up and speed up, and that is what the budget holders are entitled to. So we will certainly call on the State Secretary to complete the investigation before the summer and send it to the Chamber, so that we can find a solution in consultation with the Cabinet as to what the system looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u232	Mr. Chairman. I will be brief and read the motion, but only after I have thanked both Secretary of State for their first-term replies. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the personal budget gives people the freedom to tailor care to their own needs;]] [[noting that the Sociale Verzekeringsbank provides payments to healthcare providers for people with a personalised budget as of 1 January 2015;]] [[Considers that despite the hard work of the Social Insurance Bank last year, the current system of processing payouts is complex;]] [[believes that the personalised budget should be available now and in the future for people who want to direct their own lives and should not be hindered by a system that is so complex;]] [[Calls on the Government to conduct a thorough investigation into alternatives to the payment processing system, to take into account the advantages and disadvantages of these alternatives compared to the current system, the extent to which other parties are able to carry out this task, to engage in discussions with all relevant parties (including VNG and healthcare offices) and to inform the Chamber before summer 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from making irreversible investments in the current ICT payment system which anticipates this, but to focus on small-scale ICT adjustments within the current system that do benefit user-friendliness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Potters and Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-401]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u233	Maybe I can make a brief statement to conclude. I think it is important to look at both State Secretarys to really have the debate on the alternatives before the summer so that we can make a decision. I hope the Secretary of State will agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u234	Mrs Leijten and Mrs Keijzer, I would like to ask one question on the motion tabled. We're not going to have the debate again. I call Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u235	I think this is a debate room, Mr President. Anyway... That's what I wanted to say. In his first term, Mr Potters said that he was confident that Secretary of State Van Rijn could list the alternatives and open them up to us. We have just had a debate with two State Secretarys in which one said 'I don't really see what's wrong' and the other said 'it's good to do thorough research'. Which State Secretary would prefer the VVD to carry this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u236	I don't think it's up to me to judge that. I am pleased that Secretary of State Van Rijn has indicated that he wants to take a serious look at the alternative. I think he speaks on behalf of the entire cabinet when he says that. I therefore assume that there will be a serious alternative in this Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u237	I have two questions on Mr Potter's motion. I'll put them together shortly. First of all... Does this motion state what Mr Potters said earlier, namely that the alternatives to be examined do not include leaving the task at SVB? Or has that opinion been watered down in the debate tonight? Second. Mr Potters said in the motion that there should be no irreversible investment proposals. I have tabled a motion asking the Chamber to know which improvements are to be made and which are not to be made and what the costs are. Are those two the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u238	The motion also states that minor improvements in the system should be possible. It is, of course, about non-large investments in systems, because we are on the verge of taking a different decision. I think the two motions are mutually exclusive. In her motion, Mrs Keijzer asks the Secretary of State to show what steps are actually being taken. I think that's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u239	I hear from Mrs Keijzer that her second question has not yet been answered, Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u240	Mrs Keijzer has asked whether my motion reflects what I said in the first term. The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u241	One more question on the last part of Mr Potters' motion. I've asked the Secretary of State if he's going to invest in a new system to be developed. He said no to that. I asked him if he would still invest in necessary improvements to the current system. He said yes to that. That commitment is already in place, isn't it? Or does Mr Potters interpret the statements of the two govern ments differently? I'm just confused for a second. I believe that this also refers to Mrs Keijzer's motion, because it also calls for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u242	I need to suppress a little smile. Every Tuesday I see motions in the Chamber on commitments made by directors and then put to the Chamber in a motion. I have tried to make a motion that has as many ingredients as possible in it. This part has indeed already been promised, but I added it to the motion to complete the image. However, it is true that this commitment has already been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u243	Mr. Chairman. The outcome of tonight's debate is clear. At the request of the Chamber, an investigation will be carried out into the alternatives to the SVB. That doesn't alter the fact that it was a confusing debate. The U.S. Secretary of State says he needs the research into alternatives, while the Secretary of State for Social Affairs says: 'cause he has to. In the light of this difference, how should we look at the results of the study? The Christian Union therefore wants a letter from both State Secretarys on the results of the investigation. I thank the two directors for their reply, but the answers to parts were disappointing. I refer to the questions put to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. To the question of my colleague from the CDA how to do better, the Secretary of State replied that the chain should be improved, but isn't that an open door? Of course, steps must be taken in the chain, but the position of the SVB is also under discussion. And how can the Secretary of State refer to the CIO when I ask her the question? In my opinion, Mrs Leijten asked that question why she is convinced that the position of the SVB should not be changed. It's in the letter signed by herself, so it's an opinion of the cabinet, isn't it? I don't want to hang around for too long. We must look at the importance of the budget holders. I am convinced that this is the time for reflection. This is also a good time to look at alternatives. We absolutely need to be careful, so this is also the time to give criteria for research. That is why I have the motion by GroenLinks in part No. 400 co-signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u244	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u245	Mr. Chairman. The U.S. Secretary of State will address the motions. I have been asked a few more questions. I would like to say to Mrs Leijten that I too am very much in favour of identifying the alternatives. I think this was the noise on the line. That noise is not there; let that be very clear. We have both said that we have confidence in the SVB. That's just part of it. Then a response to a comment by Mrs Agema. In my initial contribution, I said that if we can further complete the ICT system, we will need fewer people who are now working hand in hand. That leads to an inevitability effect. So not the ICT system as such leads to that, but the fact that you are working with fewer people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u246	That manual system is precisely the blunder for which we brought Secretary of State Klijnsma to the Chamber tonight. Because of this blunder, the 152 million euros are spent too much. I said, if you flush $30 down the toilet every day and you stop doing that one day, it's really very special to call that an income effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u247	Yeah, but if you have to go on day in, day out because you're not making any improvements, it's gonna be more complicated, of course. I therefore believe that an improvement in the ICT system can indeed improve this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u248	This is a very special way of looking at the waste of taxpayers' money. This could have been avoided if the Secretary of State of VWS had not gone ahead with this plan on his own initiative and without informing the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u249	The Secretary of State continues to answer the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u250	Finally, I should like to comment on Mrs Dik-Faber's remarks, including those relating to the Acts. Of course, the SVB also has internal improvements under control. That's very clear. I said that the chain is indispensable. It just needs to be put together. In the letter I sent to the Chamber, also on behalf of my colleague from VWS, I have consistently said that the BIT cabinet and CIO believe that the SVB should not be cleared up in this context. That's what the letter says. So they both take that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u251	Mr. Chairman. I'll get on the motions. The first motion, in part No. 395, is Mrs Keijzer's. I have a bit of a problem with the wording of that motion. The operative part states "that in the variants to be examined, at least one ministry is responsible and directing." That appeals to me. In the distribution must be completely clear who the owner is and who should examine the variants. I therefore endorse that intention. However, the motion also identifies a number of things that I do not actually agree with. If Mrs Keijzer wishes to consider doing this differently, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u252	Of course, I am always willing to do so. I will delete the first recital.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u253	And the second one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u254	I'll adjust the second one. It should be noted that the pgb-debacle was partly caused by two ministries. That seems minimal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u255	No, if Mrs Keijzer deletes those two considerations and only asks for the ruling of the Chamber, I will leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u256	Well, I'll think about that then. Perhaps that will achieve the objective that we have this kind of debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u257	Good. You have until Tuesday to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u258	Yeah, let's just do that, Mr. Chairman. I mean, I'm just gonna think about it. I wasn't quite clear. You need to be clear, especially in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u259	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u260	We can certainly expect that from someone who always asks to be clear. I'll come to the motion in part No. 396. It asks the government to send an overview of what improvements are being made and what are not being made, and what are the costs. I believe that I have already promised this in an earlier debate. I am going to do my best to give that overview as fully as possible for the debate we will have on the 23rd. I understand the intention of the petitioner with the motion and I leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 397 calls on the government not to make further investments in the new ICT system. I am not sure whether the scope is correct, but I said in the debate that we are making a step forward in investing in the new ICT system because we are going to investigate these variants. Until then, we will continue with the quick wins, as promised. The applicant will not fail to point out to me that I have the wording in the motion for a resolution on item No. 401 more precise. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 397.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u261	As long as I can count on no money being flushed down the well, 151 or 152 million have already disappeared, and that is a big deal on............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Does the Secretary of State say there's no more money being flushed down wells?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u262	We are not used to flushing money through wells anyway, so that seems to me to be a statement I can always make. At the same time, this is explicitly stated in the motion in part No. 401. I would therefore be grateful if Mrs Leijten could withdraw her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u263	With the agreement that no money will be flushed through new ICT wells, I can withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u264	Since the Leiten motion (, 25657, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u265	In the motion in part No. 398 I am also asked to take the option of going back to the old way of working. We have discussed this with each other and we do not agree on it. The core of the further search is that we take the right of draw as a starting point. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u266	About these wells: can I just say to the VVD that going back to the old way of working was 152 million cheaper? I would like to persuade you to support the motion. We are, of course, dealing with what we are voting on. If the Secretary of State wants to continue with that waste of money, I'll bet all my money on the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u267	I am being addressed directly here and I think I should be able to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u268	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u269	I think the PVV proposal will be disastrous for the budget holders, because then you tell the people who are now in the system that you are going back to the old situation. That means we have to look again in a new way...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u270	Don't argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u271	That's going to cost a lot of extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u272	Thank you. Mrs Agema, just to be sure, will you put this motion to the vote? I couldn't quite make that out of your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u273	Yes, of course! It's really bizarre to start investigating all the alternatives, except for temporarily going back to the old way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u274	In the motion in part No. 399 is being asked to respond to the proposal made by the D66 Group. I indicated in the debate that I am very willing to do so in the context of the exploration we are going to do. I shall therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 400 are being asked to apply a number of criteria to the review we are going to do. I agree with those principles. We will include them in the study of the alternatives. I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 401 we are called upon to investigate alternatives and see whether other proposals can work. As I said in the debate, I think it is very good to weigh up the current drawing right and see how alternatives are scoring against what we are doing now. I think it is a good thing that we have a complete balance. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I'm gonna do my best to do this before the summer. I have learned that the quality is always better than the deadlines, but I have understood Mr Potters correctly: he is asking for my great effort to do so. I'll be sure to deliver it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-34.u275	This brings us to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the two Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament and the officials who have supported the rulers, but also the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate through another medium. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
