ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Security and Justice. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, who speaks on behalf of the CDA. We agreed on a four-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. More than two years ago, the MH17 was shot down above eastern Ukraine. Many next of kin still live with that every day, because shortly after the shooting down, both Russia and the United States declared that they knew exactly what had happened. They had seen the footage, they had presentations, and Kerry said, "We've seen the plane taken down." The next of kin still don't know exactly what happened, but a step forward has been taken with the publication of the JIT (Joint Investigation Team) report. However, their patience is being tested tremendously. I want to talk today about three issues: international coalition formation, archiving and the path to persecution. How lonely the Dutch ambassador in Moscow must have felt when she was summoned. If we want to make the prosecution and trial of the perpetrators of the MH17 disaster a success, the Netherlands will have to build an international coalition, the JIT countries will have to stand behind the Netherlands, all the ambassadors of the EU countries will have to stand behind the Netherlands at the same time when something happens and the Netherlands will have to address the Security Council that she is a member of next year with Italy. Is the Netherlands prepared to do so? How is it that, unlike all kinds of floods and other disasters in Europe, the MH17 disaster does not reach the conclusions of the European Councils? Can we ensure that this happens and that next time all countries send a signal to Russia at the same time? Why was the Russian ambassador questioned here about his criticism of the JIT investigation? We knew there would be criticism, but why didn't they ask where the radar footage was? If these radar images, which Russia was obliged to hand over to the OVV investigation, do not arrive, while they have now surfaced, will the Netherlands file a complaint with ICAO? The radar footage from America has been handed over confidentially. I get that, because cases in criminal proceedings stay secret for a long time, maybe until the trial. But will they be declassified, as Deputy Minister Nuland has offered? I'll be on the archiving. Last time we asked the national archivist to create a central archive. In all honesty, we didn't say why we asked. So let me be honest with you: in recent years, certain archives of certain ministries have not been properly organized. For the CDA, it is very important that, after the course of justice has taken place, it is possible to check whether something has happened and exactly what has happened. Can it be transferred immediately to a central archive, or can the Chamber be informed by the Heritage Inspectorate about the current status of the archive and whether it contains all the documents? Can the Chamber, confidentially or publicly, obtain a list of the selection lists drawn up by the ministries of the matters to be kept? The prosecution is important. When is the cabinet going to make a decision? After all, we wait. If you say that you have 100 men in view and that the Buk missile was fired from a particular location at some point, then the crew of that Buk system knows they're suspects. They can start from that day on to counter that. There is therefore a need for urgency. Does the government feel that urgency? And how is she going to take a decision on this? And are we just going to judge individuals or is it also being extended to state liability? A Buk system is always in the possession of a government, never an individual person. Is there any question of State liability for the non-closure of airspace? I'm gonna handle a few loose ends. Minister Koenders promised last time that he would make every effort to ensure that Poroshenko, Putin and Mogherini would answer the letters of the next of kin personally and in substance. A few letters have been answered in person, but none of them have given a substantive answer. Why is that? What efforts is the government making to make this happen? Is the government prepared, if it remains difficult, to turn to the UN Security Council and ask the Secretary-General of the UN Security Council to re-establish this, in order to maintain the unique coalition that was there shortly after the defeat, which the Netherlands had also helped with, in the process of persecution and trial?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u3	Madam President. Today we are discussing the first results of the criminal investigation into the destruction of flight MH17. According to the SP, the Joint Investigation Team (JIT), in which the investigative authorities of Australia, Belgium, Malaysia, Ukraine and the Netherlands work together, presented an impressive presentation. Although a judge should ultimately judge the evidence, the team states that it has sufficient research results to be able to draw certain conclusions about the weapon used, the firing site and the supply and disposal route. More about that in a minute. First, I have some questions based on a conversation with next of kin. How are they further informed about the conduct of the criminal proceedings? Can they also play a role in that process, for example through the right to speak? Is the care for the next of kin well arranged? Very strikingly, one of them said that it was only recently for some of the next of kin that the MH17 was taken down, so to speak yesterday. An important stage in the criminal investigation is now closed. Those involved and those responsible must now be identified so that prosecution can be carried out. Like the Prime Minister, I would like to distance myself from Ukraine's relationship between the criminal investigation into the MH17 and the approval of the EU-Ukraine association agreement. President Poroshenko did so, and yesterday also the Ukrainian Deputy Minister for European Integration. I find that nauseating. I would ask the Prime Minister to repeat the rejection of that link in the Chamber. Then proceed with the criminal proceedings. Russia is explicitly in the picture as a suspect because the Buk missile would have come from that country. It is therefore very important that the country cooperates in the detection and trial of those responsible. Given Russia's strong criticism of the investigation, this will not be an easy task. Can the Prime Minister comment on this? How is Russian cooperation being sought, to which Security Council Resolution 2166 also requires? Does Russia, in the opinion of the Cabinet, have sufficient cooperation at the moment? Why does the European Union not act together, for example through High Representative Mogherini? In order to obtain further cooperation, I think it is important to respond seriously to Russian criticism of the criminal investigation. Among other things, the Russians denounce Ukraine's participation in the investigation because the country would be biased. Secret Service would manipulate evidence. In addition, Ukraine would retain relevant information from the investigation with a veto right. Can we respond to all these issues? Can we also discuss the radar equipment that Russia would still have at its disposal? Why hasn't that been handed over to the JIT? Another aspect concerns Ukraine's responsibility over its own airspace. The Security Research Council previously concluded that the Ukrainian authorities had sufficient reason to exclude airspace above the eastern part of Ukraine as a precaution, because military aircraft had been shot down at relatively high altitudes and because weapons systems were present in the area that could reach cruising altitude of civilian aircraft. Can the Minister for Security and Justice indicate whether and, if so, how this conclusion plays a role in the criminal justice process? Doesn't Ukraine belong to the defendant's bank in this respect? In the presentation of the initial findings of the criminal investigation, it was stated that no aircraft has flown near the MH17 that could have shot down this aircraft. It is not clear to me whether this means that there was no other plane, for example a military transport plane, near the MH17 that might have been targeted by the missile attack. Can this be clarified? It is very important that the criminal investigation be continued now, so that we can hopefully proceed quickly to prosecution. The next item is the question of how to prosecute: internationally, in the Netherlands or in another country. The cabinet does not wish to make that choice until the last minute. After all, it depends on the perpetrators, when they come into view, and from where they are located. Can the Minister of Security and Justice address this? It is well known that Russia does not want to extradite suspects, but Ukraine also has such a constitutional ban. What possible implications does that have for prosecution? Finally, a question on the agreement recently reached by the UN Civil Aviation Organisation, known as ICAO, on new security arrangements after the MH17 has been brought down. The Vereniging Nederlandse Verkeerskliegers is very critical of this, especially because it would not go far enough. How does the cabinet respond to that criticism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. The day before yesterday we again spoke with the relatives of the victims of flight MH17. Again it became clear that for most of the next of kin, the disaster did not occur more than two years ago, but yesterday. The loss of lovers, sons, daughters, fathers, mothers, grandfathers, grandmothers, brothers and sisters still affects them daily. That will not be removed by any investigation, as we understood. The Vliegramp MH17 Foundation, as well as the Working Party on Truth Finding, indicate that the research of the JIT is of great importance for the processing process. How did this ever happen? Who's responsible? These very important questions will have to be answered. They're entitled to that. And of course, the perpetrators must be brought to justice. The JIT has now issued its report. First of all, I would like to express my great appreciation and respect for the JIT and the Public Prosecutor for the thorough work they have done to find out what happened to taking down the MH17. It has become clear where the Buk missile plant came from and in which area the rocket was fired. Meanwhile, there are also hundreds of people in the picture who would be involved in firing the rocket. These are major steps forward in the investigation and in the search for the perpetrators. It is therefore very important that nothing frustrates or impedes criminal proceedings or calls into question the independence of the investigation. In this light, it is right that the cabinet called on the Russian ambassador after the Russians raised doubts about the independence of the investigation. However, the question is why the Netherlands did this on its own. Why didn't all the other JIT countries do the same? Then perhaps it would have been an even stronger signal to Russia. Turns out the Russians have new radar footage. Why are those images still not shared with the JIT? Why should the European Commission not take a decision on this too, or the European Council? My question to the cabinet is what actions are still possible to allow Russia to participate fully in the JIT investigation. Surely it could increase the pressure on Russia if other JIT countries also increased political and public pressure on Russia to give full openness and release the new radar images? The letter of 24 October from the cabinet states that the cabinet is actively committed to maintaining international support. Can the Minister clarify this sentence? What exactly does this bet consist of? Then there's justice. The JIT says that it has not yet chosen a form of trial, because it depends on the results of the investigation. The cabinet says that two options are currently being examined: a national prosecution in the Netherlands and an international tribunal. Does the cabinet, as I ask the rulers and the prime minister, have a preference? Isn't it the most obvious that this trial will take place in the Netherlands, since most of the victims come from the Netherlands, the Dutch law knows international crimes, offers the Netherlands ample right to speak and has a judgment in absentia? For the trial in the Netherlands, it is necessary to transfer the jurisdiction of Ukraine to the Netherlands. Is it likely that this will happen? What's that gonna depend on? What are the chances that the temporary transfer of suspects to the Netherlands will also take place by Ukraine or Russia? The next of kin have submitted two more cases to us MPs. In some of the next of kin, there is great uncertainty as to whether and how the cabinet is working behind the scenes to ensure that all countries participate fully in the criminal investigation. Is the cabinet prepared to inform them, of course confidentially, of the political commitment of the cabinet in this matter, if necessary by the next of kin? There is great appreciation for the openness of the public prosecutor, but one would also like to have a little more insight into the political commitment of the cabinet. Can the Prime Minister press the JIT to ensure that the choice of a form of trial takes into account the desire of the next of kin to give them the right to speak as well? Again, the next of kin do not get their loved ones back, but they are entitled to know who carried out this atrocity and that the perpetrators are being tried. Major steps forward have now been taken. The important thing now is to determine who the perpetrators are and that they are actually brought to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. Last month we received the initial findings of the criminal investigation of the Joint Investigation Team, the JIT. After the repatriation of the victims and the investigation of the Security Research Council, the criminal justice route is now the third major task for which we stand. The tracking and trial of the perpetrators is now the remaining target. I would like to express my gratitude to the JIT researchers. The presentation that we have all seen gives me just as before at the OVV confidence in their work. I am also basing this on the discussions we had earlier this week with representatives of the next of kin. They also expressed their confidence in Westerbeke and his team. Following on from a number of colleagues, I would once again urge you to maintain the unique openness of the public prosecutor towards the next of kin. The circumstances surrounding the disaster have now been meticulously recorded. We know how it happened, what it happened and where it came from. Also 100 people are now in the picture. The net around the perps seems to be closing. As is the case when a net is thrown out, we need fishermen's patience. That could be frustrating. Patience is being tested, especially the next of kin. But the ultimate importance of a criminal investigation that takes place in all independence and thoroughness justifies that. Result goes for speed here. Before I ask some questions about prosecution and trial, I would like to go back to one of the most sharp conclusions of the OVV, which concluded a year ago that Ukraine should have closed its airspace. We share that conclusion. We believe and believe that action can be expected from all those involved, i.e. airlines, public authorities, intelligence services and so on. We have already called on the cabinet to do so by means of various motions. I recall my own motion on certification, the motions by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Servaes on a covenant, Mr Elias' motion on the negotiations with ICAO and, finally, the efforts of the Secretary of State of I and M, who are not present here today, at the request of the Chamber to raise a retention obligation for radar images at ICAO. So I think today is the time to ask the cabinet what that has resulted in. What is the result of these efforts? I have some questions about the search and prosecution. The cabinet talks about two options that are still under consideration: the national and the international variant. The letter gives the impression that there is a preference for the national variant. Under what law should this happen: the International Crimes Act, just the Criminal Code or are we going to come up with something new? Should the choice for the national or international variant not be made dependent on the offender or the offender group, when it is targeted? In other words, the criminal investigation of the JIT can continue with full force without any choice being made for any of these variants? I also recall Fred Westerbeke's statement, I believe in the Volkskrant of 29 September last, in which he said quite explicitly: please, do not throw all the doors closed at this stage; do not decide now, because we want to be able to do so carefully. Then to the central point where we, as politicians, do have a role to play. We have been reluctant to politicise the investigation. All the good reasons have already been mentioned. But I do want to know what the cabinet is doing to further solidify the international community around the criminal investigation. The Netherlands must not be alone. I recall the moment when the Netherlands proposed a UN tribunal in the UN Security Council. Although the Netherlands encountered a veto, it also became apparent that Russia was not our country, but Russia alone. There was much explicit and implicit support for the JIT approach, even from Russia's friends in the UN Security Council. I want it to stay that way. It is very good that the Netherlands has summoned the Russian ambassador to protect the independence of the JIT research.The timing was also very good, but why didn't other JIT countries follow us? Or does the cabinet want to keep these escalation possibilities open? Finally. Suppose that the national variant is chosen at the trial. Then our country involuntarily comes into the picture. So what is the strategy to maintain this international support? Maintaining unity is crucial. This applies to the JIT, the EU, the UN and even NATO, because every crack in that front will be used by those who are reluctant to cooperate. Can I assume that the Netherlands will do everything in its power to monitor this unity internationally?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. With the convincing evidence from the JIT, an important step has been taken to finally get all the facts on the table about what happened on July 17, 2014 and to be able to answer the question of who is responsible for that. On behalf of my group, I would like to express my appreciation for the excellent work done by the Public Prosecutor. But we're not there yet. We must be politically open and honest about the real dilemmas and the extremely complex geopolitical context in which this matter takes place. Although within the next of kin the emotions, views and wishes are very diverse, there seems to be a need for openness. The need to be taken is an important common denominator within that group. Is the Cabinet prepared to discuss with representatives of the Vliegramp MH17 Foundation and the Working Party on Truth Finding how they can be taken into account as openly and fairly as possible in the next steps in this process, including the difficult legal and political considerations that need to be made? It is now up to the JIT to complete the criminal investigation and appoint individuals. Of course, we call on the government to do everything in its power to support the further investigation. At the same time, we continue to argue that, of course, the independent criminal investigation should not be compromised by politics. Because it's vulnerable. We've seen that. Once again, there was fog from Moscow. The cabinet was right to react quickly and firmly, in an unmistakable manner, including by summoning the Russian ambassador. It is sad that Russia has not yet transferred the promised radar images. Of course, that's insufferable. Does the cabinet not agree that this has not yet been done, or does it make it a firm political point, and is it perhaps time for the Prime Minister himself to address President Putin? That brings me to the next point. The Netherlands has so far opted for a very pronounced position in the rush hour. The OVV was in charge, the D.A. was in charge, and now the letter from Minister Van der Steur also hints at the possibility of the trial taking place in the Netherlands. That brings me to my core question today. Is it wise to continue to perform this high-level function? Is there perhaps something to say to go back to midfield, less prominently visible and less vulnerable, more as a game divider among other teammates? Because if we are to remain in rush hour, we must ensure that our backs are always in order. My colleagues have also pointed this out. I ask this question, of course, because of the events of recent weeks, when our wife in Moscow was summoned to the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs alone. Now I am concerned about Mrs Jones-Bos and her solidity, to be honest, not very much. That is all well and good, but it would indeed be a good thing if next time there were joint actions in JIT or at EU level. We have also seen that, although President-in-Office Tusk said the necessary things about the investigation, unfortunately there were no written conclusions from the European Council. That is all the more important when we enter the next stage, the stage of trial. I, too, see the benefits of prosecution before a court in the Netherlands. It is quick to realize and there are opportunities for survivors to be heard, to be present as a disadvantaged party in the trial. But I ask the Minister of Justice, as well as the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to be open and honest and to consider possible disadvantages or risks of this scenario. If you turn it around, a multilateral tribunal, perhaps even in a third, more "neutral" country, could prevent a country from coming alone, for example when countries question the jurisdiction of that court or when they would refuse to transfer suspects. I come to my last question, one final dilemma as well. I understand the point of thinking about trial in absentia when suspects aren't there. You want to keep up the pace. I see a risk, too. Indeed, if you prelude too much to such a situation now, you could take the pressure away from countries to extradite. I think that pressure should be there. Once again, we must make it clear to the international community, not only the Netherlands, that the lack of cooperation should have consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, compliments to the Joint Investigation Team. The facts which they presented on 28 September show very precisely and, as far as I am concerned, also irrefutable that it was a Buk rocket. So no accident, no attack from the plane itself, no hit by another plane. It also puts an end to all these bizarre Russian conspiracy theories about exactly what happened to the plane MH17 and 298 human lives on that fatal July 17, 2014. It was a Buk, originating from Russia, fired from pro-Russian rebel territory, and then returned to Russia. Those bug systems aren't just standing there in a garage. They can't be taken away for a random passerby or a soldier on vacation. They are under very strict control, both from the political and military leadership. That makes Russia's attitude at the moment all the more painful: the constant opposition, the undermining of evidence, the failure to have radar images, yet finding them again and then not transferring them. Or maybe it is? We'll have to wait and see. For the prosecution and trial, it is crucial that Russia cooperates. The Prime Minister rightly says, as far as I am concerned, that Russia should stop this nonsense. I agree with him. But what does the Prime Minister do to stop Putin from doing this? What is the Prime Minister doing to ensure that Russia participates in Resolution 2166? The Russian ambassador was rightly summoned. But why were we alone in this action? Why were we alone? Why not join the JIT countries? Why not join the grieving nations? Why not join the European allies? D66 considers it important that the perpetrators should be brought to justice as soon as possible; there are 100 men in the picture. This requires answers to crucial questions. Who gave the order to pick up the Buk from Russia and take it to the firing site? Who transported the Buk? Who ordered the missile to be fired? Was it a deliberate murder order or was it a fatal mistake? The answers are carefully examined by the JIT. What my group is more difficult to understand is that the choice of the form of trial takes so long. Set-ups promised a prosecution strategy in October 2014. Belgian Prime Minister Michel said in autumn 2015: this year it will be decided how the perpetrators of the attack on flight MH17 will be tried. Then Minister Koenders came in January 2015 with: within six months a decision. It is now 26 October 2016 and there is no decision. I would like to ask the cabinet what caused this delay. Why aren't the JIT countries out of here yet? Is that because one of the JIT countries is obstructing it? Following on from previous colleagues, I would like to ask whether people are only being looked at. Or, in the end, given what has already been established, namely movement of the Buk system from Russian territory, is there any consideration of state liability? Shortly afterwards, Poroshenko stated that there would be a link between the investigation into the MH17 and the outcome of the Ukraine referendum. As far as my group is concerned, that is nauseating. The following is interesting to me and I hope the cabinet can confirm it. The cabinet writes in the letter that negotiations are currently under way with Ukraine to gain full jurisdiction. I believe that this is crucial in order to achieve an effective strategy for prosecution. But the cabinet would still negotiate. I spoke extensively today with Ukrainian Minister Klimkin. He personally assured me that Ukraine would like to transfer that jurisdiction. That's what they want. I was allowed to refer to that publicly. I was also allowed to say that there are no obstacles, so I am very curious whether and I very much hope that the Prime Minister can confirm that Ukraine is indeed prepared to hand over that jurisdiction. I think we will be a lot closer to the prosecution strategy. To conclude, the bottom stone must come up is what the Prime Minister has promised, and we as a Chamber fully support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u8	I would like to come back to the point that Mr Sjoerdsma has just made and to which colleagues have also touched, namely the decision to announce the prosecution. We all know that the government has already indicated at various times to come to the Chamber with this. It has also been called upon from various quarters of the Chamber to do so, including myself. At the same time I take note of the interview with Fred Westerbeke on 29 September in de Volkskrant; I just referred to it. In it he says very clearly to everyone who calls for a decision to be taken on persecution already: "Please don't do it, that is unwise at this stage. You're legally shutting down doors. That's why we're still working on various options." That also weighs heavily for me, regardless of what might be going on with the JIT countries, which I would also like to know. Doesn't that have to weigh heavily on Mr. Sjoerdsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u9	That is absolutely very difficult and I would not like to go through the JIT investigation in any way, but I note that the cabinet announces and announces, and that Mr Westerbeke says: that is not wise. I also note that statements are being made by one of the JIT countries, Ukraine, which do not suit me very well either. I'd like to know from the cabinet exactly what that's about. Why is it announced, announced, announced and ultimately not coming through? I have not yet said this in my text, but I do think it is important: if these two persecution strategies are there, where exactly is it dependent on which of these two persecution strategies is most effective? I think it is also crucial that that should be on the table, because that is not clear enough for me at the moment. I'd like it to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u10	There is a contradiction in that, which I am trying to resolve for myself at least. If you think with Westerbeke that you should not constantly make calls and that the cabinet should not constantly make announcements, then I think the attitude should be.. I do not know if Mr Sjoerdsma can support me in saying that a strategy of persecution should serve the potential success. You can't judge that until there's an unsub group or an unsub in the picture. At the moment, the letter speaks very clearly not about "actors" but about "involved." Then we should turn the order of our side too, is my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u11	I do not entirely agree with Mr Ten Broeke. He has to ask himself the following. If you don't announce that you have something, not once, not twice, but actually three times, even more so, if you actually already have a plan A, which rightly includes a UN tribunal and the UN and that Russia has fired into the Security Council in such a nasty and cynical way, then you can also ask yourself why Plan B is so complicated. That is why I am asking the following question, and perhaps that is also at the heart of my question. It's two-fold. The first one I mentioned to Mr Ten Broeke: what determines which of the two follow-up strategies is the most effective? What exactly is the variable that allows the cabinet to determine: we choose A or we choose B? It seems important to me to know that. I also think it is important to ask for this as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. The Joint Investigation Team has done a very solid job under difficult circumstances. That deserves a great deal of appreciation. The preliminary report is therefore an important milestone in the investigation. First of all, it is of course extremely important for the survivors, but of course it is also very important for all of us. Now there is undisputed evidence that there was indeed a Buk missile. The location from which it was fired has also been accurately determined and it is clear that the installation has entered Eastern Ukraine from Russia and then returned there. This is very important for the follow-up. The big question now is who are the culprits and how do we ensure that these culprits are actually tried. The culprits are for GroenLinks and, I assume, also for the cabinet, not only those who pressed the fatal button at that time. It is also about an order structure and those responsible for the fact that those weapons systems were available in a place where they were not supposed to be. My group supports the firm commitment of the cabinet not to politicise this matter and to allow the criminal justice process to go its own way. This strict separation is important and makes it possible for many countries to support the Netherlands, not hindered by geopolitical considerations. This also means that there is no connection to the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement. I can imagine that it is sensitive in Ukraine that a country such as the Netherlands, which has been severely affected, is putting that treaty at risk, but it is separate matters. Is the Prime Minister going to address this correctly with his Ukrainian colleague? Broad support from the international community for the investigation is valuable and increases the chances of prosecution. The legal-political process on international crimes and war crimes is extremely complex and can therefore be very long-term. It's a long-term criminal trial. That is very difficult for relatives to digest, but it is often the reality. Nor is it impossible for it to lead to success. Let's establish that the bomber of flight 103 over Lockerbie was tried 12 years after that. In the end, those responsible for the massacre in Srebrenica were also brought to justice. Our conviction must be that this will eventually happen to the perpetrators of this cowardly attack. This means that everything benefits from peace and calm, even when it comes to the strategy of persecution. I would prefer people to think twice about this rather than just jumping to conclusions too quickly. Even if the extradition of suspects cannot take place because of legal and political obstacles, it is important and valuable to continue the process. The persecution as such has an independent value and an independent interest. It could answer the guilt question. It may be an answer that cannot be easily generated, but it may still be possible, even if there is no extradition. An independent judge may find suspects guilty, even in absentia. That in itself is also of value. It's not ideal, but it's of value. The cabinet must, of course, continue to insist, both publicly and behind the scenes, on the full cooperation of the Russians and the extradition of suspects. It is good that the Netherlands has in any case reacted firmly to the Russian propaganda and the suspicions surrounding the JIT report. We are pleased with that. We do not believe that more intensive use of pressure equipment is now being discussed, but it may be discussed. Then it is extremely important that there is sufficient broad international support to be able to do so effectively. My central question to the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister is therefore as follows. Is that what is happening behind the scenes in order to hold on to this international solidarity? If it becomes really important, will it also be sufficient to be sure that the European Commission, the European Union, the JIT countries and NATO are behind us, and that together we can increase the pressure? Nevertheless, of course, we remain in a situation where the geopolitical dependence on oil and gas from Russia is far too great. There are many reasons why this dependency should be reduced as quickly as possible, but MH17 is one of them. Here's what I'm gonna end up with. We fully support the next of kin and all international principles of law to ensure that the perpetrators of this horrific attack are brought to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. So far, The Hague has been weak and frightened. That said diplomacy expert Robert van de Roer in De Telegraaf about the cabinet role in the aftermath of the attack on the MH17. He was absolutely right. The Dutch strategy is powerless and has led to nothing at all. The cabinet is not prepared to take the fist on the table at diplomatic level. After the JIT demonstrated Russian involvement, the cabinet should have deported the Russian ambassador and applied heavier economic sanctions. But almost nothing happened. The Russians dishonored the next of kin by questioning the investigation, giving disinformation and falsifying the evidence. Of course, Ukraine is not free either. It simply kept its own airspace above the dangerous east of the country open. Why is this not addressed in the JIT study? Can the Minister of Security and Justice comment on this? In recent years, Ukraine has also put up many smokescreens about radar images. President Poroshenko, who is making a scandalous link between the MH17 and the referendum, needs to distance the cabinet much harder. But Prime Minister Rutte never dares to show his teeth internationally. We believe that the Netherlands should go as far as punishing the perpetrators. They must never avoid their punishment. The Australian government said the names of the suspects will be announced before the end of the year. I would like to hear confirmation from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u14	Madam President. When there is an important criminal investigation, it is always quite vulnerable to conduct political debates on this issue. But I think that the previous debates and also this debate show that we are all very well aware of the care that this requires in our choice of words and that at the same time it is perfectly possible to talk about the state of affairs and, above all, about the options of trial and such. The SGP Group has taken note of the Joint Investigation Team's commitment with great respect and appreciation. It did a meticulous investigation into the weapons, the firing site, and the supply and disposal route. It is a good thing that in the letter of 28 September, in which we are informed about the progress of the investigation, it was already reported at the beginning that it was shared with the next of kin. I have a great deal of respect for the fact that there is good communication from the Public Prosecutor's Office with the next of kin about this. As a result, we could see in the conversations with relatives that there is a great deal of confidence in them about the criminal approach, even though of course we all, but in particular they, run into the fact that it takes a terrifyingly long time for the net to close around the perpetrators. On the political trail, too, there are dilemmas and difficult questions about means of printing and the like, which are difficult to discuss in public, precisely because they may hinder their deployment. But in the conversation with the next of kin we had, I noticed that sometimes there was some uncertainty about questions such as why the Russian ambassador is being summoned by the Netherlands and not by other countries, what choices are being made at that point and what dilemmas are being raised. Perhaps even more can be shared with the representatives of the next of kin, I ask the Prime Minister. I come to the crucial question of whether justice is being done, whether the perpetrators are being tracked down, prosecuted and tried. It is incredibly important that justice be pursued in this area, that justice be done, also for the peace of mind of the next of kin. Which route of trial will be chosen is still unclear. My question to the cabinet is when it will be clear. The following elements are also discussed in the letters, but I would like to highlight the following points. Firstly, it is very important for the SGP that the suspects will also be present in the criminal proceedings. That seems to us to be extremely valuable in this criminal trial. Secondly, it is very important that there should also be the right to speak for next of kin. Thirdly, it is very important that binding agreements are made with the countries of origin of the suspects to respect the outcome of the process and its implementation. The cabinet states in its letter that it takes into account the possibility of looking at the Netherlands to bring about national prosecution and trial. How does the cabinet weigh that option now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. The Buk missile came from Russia, was returned to Russia and was deployed from rebel territory. As far as PVV is concerned, the JIT deserves to be congratulated on the research which has led to these clear conclusions. Russia has a lot of explaining to do. A Buk missile system is not a small tool but high-quality military equipment. That's not just being moved from A to B. Who knew about the Buk transport? Who gave the green light for its deployment in Eastern Ukraine? Those are crucial questions. Russia should, in fact, be required to give a statement on this Buk transport. What is our government going to do to obtain a coherent and logical statement from Russia? Is the Prime Minister willing to make his own story in Moscow if necessary? The Netherlands must act assertively. For example, the false statements made by Russia to date must be seriously challenged internationally. And Russia must be confronted with its rebuttal. It must all remain public. We all need to be able to see and know what's going on there. Russia would provide primary radar images to the JIT, but that hasn't happened so far. Is that right? If so, why has Russia not yet been called upon to do so? Apparently, the cabinet doesn't want to smash the Russian bear. Does the cabinet still hope that Russia will ever participate in criminal prosecution of the perpetrators? If so, what is this hope based on? At the moment, we are only seeing a Russia scattering with disinformation. A bugged telephone calls show that the Ukrainian security service knew about the Buk transport on 16 July, so it was aware. The Buk was invoked by the rebels because Ukraine intensified the air war. A separatist said about the Ukrainian fighter planes literally: they were so banging that it wasn't child's play anymore. That was July 16th, the day before. It is clear that Ukraine also has some explaining to do here. Ukraine knew that Buk was coming. We now know that from bugged phone calls and sent a swarm of Sukhoi fighters into Eastern Ukraine airspace. Those are the facts. So why was that airspace still open above this orgy of violence, when Ukraine knew that the opponent that Buk was going to acquire and want to deploy? How is Ukraine going to answer for this and how is our government going to address Ukraine? Finally, I would like to comment on the distasteful remark made by the President of Ukraine, who linked Ukraine's willingness to cooperate in the criminal investigation last week to the cabinet response to the outcome of the Ukraine referendum. Our government says we should not politicise this investigation. And that is exactly what was done there by the President of Ukraine. It's a bad thing. We heard today from Mr Sjoerdsma that he was told a different story by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr Klimkin. In any event, the government letter states that Ukraine and the Netherlands have not yet agreed on the transfer of full jurisdiction in the event of criminal proceedings in the Netherlands. Why not? Is that the Netherlands? Is that because of Ukraine? Has the signing of the association agreement been discussed during discussions on this point? I would like to hear a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a long suspension. I'd like to combine it with dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u17	We will continue with the debate on the latest state of play on MH17. I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the speakers in the Chamber for their comments and questions. As far as the division of tasks is concerned, I would like to give a general introduction to some of the issues raised in the Chamber. Then I will talk about the following topics: next of kin, prosecution, radar footage, archiving and ICAO. A single question has been asked on the latter subject. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will then discuss the international diplomatic aspects, cooperation with Ukraine, insofar as I have not already mentioned this in the context of criminal law and the question of state liability. In any event, the Prime Minister will discuss the aspects related to the European Council and the statements made by Poroshenko. On 28 September, the Joint Investigation Team presented the first results of the criminal investigation into the destruction of flight MH17. First, the team informed the next of kin. Afterwards, the investigation was explained publicly in a meeting to be followed by everyone. I would like to underline Mr Van der Staaij's point in this connection. He said that it was his impression that the next of kin meeting and the press conference afterwards contributed to a great deal of confidence in the criminal investigation, including the next of kin. That is also the picture I have left in this case to the reports of the next of kin. The part of the investigation into the weapon used to bring down flight MH17, to the firing site and to the supply and disposal route of the Buk installation has been completed. I would like to mention the figures presented by the Joint Investigation Team on this issue. Between 100 and 200 detectives worked on the case together with other experts in the Joint Investigation Team. At the same time, a small 100 detectives, prosecutors and other experts are still working on this case every day. Dozens of containers of thousands of wreckage have all been examined in detail. Of these, 1,438 debris were processed as relevant in a database. 60 requests for legal aid have been sent to more than 20 countries. We've got 20 weapons systems under investigation. In addition, 5 billion internet pages have been recorded that are assessed on relevant material. Half a million videos and photos have been researched and stored and over 200 witnesses have been heard. In addition, about 150,000 recorded phone calls have been listened to, summarised and assessed on relevance and authenticity. As a result, more than 3,500 interviews have been fully developed, translated and analysed. All this is recorded in over 6,000 minutes. The cabinet greatly appreciates the enormous work that has been done in the context of this investigation. According to the Joint Investigation Team, the information can also be made hard in a lawsuit. This is an important step taken by the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office and the police together with the investigation authorities of Australia, Belgium, Ukraine and Malaysia. But it is also clear to everyone that the criminal investigation is not yet complete. There is still extensive investigation into those who can be held responsible for criminal matters. That will require much more patience from the next of kin and the Joint Investigation Team realizes that. Of course, the government realizes that, too. The Joint Investigation Team has indicated that about 100 people have been involved to a greater or lesser extent in taking down flight MH17. It is now necessary to examine exactly what the involvement of these people has been and to what extent they can be held responsible in criminal matters. It is essential that the Joint Investigation Team can also take the next steps in the investigation in full independence and without political interference. It's a long-term thing. The government is well aware of that. This will require a lot of patience, especially from the next of kin. We are well aware of that. But step by step, concrete progress is being made in finding out the truth and tracking down and prosecuting the perpetrators. That is, that was and that remains the top priority for the cabinet. We are working hard on this, together with the countries of the Joint Investigation Team and with broad support from the international community. The Public Prosecutor informed me that the radar data presented by the Russian Federation at the press conference on Monday 26 September of the Russian Ministry of Defence had not yet been transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office. But shortly before the start of this debate, the Russian Public Prosecutor's Office, the so-called Prokoeratoera, was informed through the Russian Embassy in Russia. As soon as the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Netherlands has received the information, it will of course be studied and assessed for usability for the criminal investigation. I cannot tell you what information has been received, because it is still to be looked at, but a package of information has been handed over to the Dutch authorities at 3 p.m. this afternoon by the Russian Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u19	It is striking that this debate is suddenly coming up with information from the Russian Federation. Is it known why it was delivered to the Russian embassy and not just to the JIT?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u20	The information is very fresh, but I understand I'm also looking at my neighbor, Mr. O'Brien, that the liaison has been requested to report to the Russian Public Prosecutor's Office. That's what happened. The Joint Investigation Team will eventually determine which information has been transferred. Other than that, I have no explanation. By the way, the Public Prosecutor's Office tells me that with all the information obtained from any country, the same will happen. All information, even if it is still received, will be examined, assessed for usability and involved in criminal investigations. The Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office plays a coordinating role in the Joint Investigation Team. The Joint Investigation Agreement has been extended until early 2018. The Joint Investigation Team facilitates cooperation between the countries concerned. In fact, this would allow for a skirmish of steps and procedures that would take a great deal of time in traditional legal aid applications. In addition, certain powers may be exercised directly in the territory of another State. Partly for this reason, Ukraine's participation is important, partly because of the fact that the crime scene is located in Ukraine and that Ukraine itself has a very strong jurisdiction over the disaster under investigation. In addition, cooperation with third countries can be provided through the permanent legal assistance channels. The Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office requests legal aid for this. The Dutch Government will support it as soon as it is asked; we will do so. I come to the prosecution and trial. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I will come back to a number of individual questions, but in general I would like to say the following. Two options are currently being developed: an international tribunal to be set up or national prosecution in and by one of the countries involved in the Joint Investigation Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u21	Before going into more detail about the investigation, I would like to ask about the closure of the airspace in eastern Ukraine, which the Ukrainians have not done. That's not included in the JIT investigation. I noticed that and I noticed the next of kin. It's, perhaps gross, negligence. Does the Minister see any chance of getting it taken into the JIT investigation after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u22	It should be made clear that the Joint Investigation Team's investigation is, of course, fully independent. In addition, I cannot, and should not, in any way have any involvement. But it goes without saying that the criminal part looks at individual, natural persons who could be offender or suspect in the investigation. The role of the States therefore does not play in criminal investigations. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will in this way address a number of questions that have been raised in that context about Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u23	It also determines the legal process and the kind of court you choose. Does an international court also include this kind of state liability? You can say that there is gross negligence. If nothing is done about it now, I am afraid it will be too late and that question will never come to the table. But that question is, of course, real.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u24	One thing is certain: one question is very topical. Acts have been carried out in and around Ukraine. This is now under criminal investigation. That research focuses on individuals who can be held responsible for the origin of this horrible disaster. That's the top priority. All these other questions can then be answered. Mr. Chairman. The experts from the countries that are part of the Joint Investigation Team have further developed the prosecution options, both multilaterally and bilaterally. Important progress has been made in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u25	I shall continue with my colleague's question. State liability and liability of individuals and their criminal prosecution are, of course, mutually exclusive. The moment you convict someone who shot a Buk, the state of who that Buk was immediately comes into view. Then there are no separate processes. Does the government want to see it as two separate processes and is this included in the prosecution strategy or does it only end up with the Foreign Minister in international diplomacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u26	I understand very well that Mr Omtzigt is asking this question. If I answered this question, I would speculate on the outcome of the criminal investigation. As we have shared in many debates on this subject, and as Mr Omtzigt and myself have shared, there is no risk that statements made by a representative of a government which is part of the Joint Investigation Team may pose any risk to the investigation. I cannot go into the speculation that Mr Omtzigt points out in any way. That would potentially harm the investigation. So I cannot answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u27	The JIT has been very firm about what the weapon was. Such weapons are only in the possession of landing and never in the possession of private persons. It is, moreover, the Prime Minister who, in the previous debate, consciously referred to the word'state liability'. So I am not talking about specific countries, I am just talking about the route. Are there going to be two separate routes? One path is then about the person who has performed an act that led to the downfall of the MH17, intentionally or not intentionally. We all see the latter. And is there going to be a completely separate route on the question of which country were those weapons? Or is it going to be a joint journey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr Omtzigt speculates at the basis of his question on the outcome of the criminal investigation. I cannot and will not respond to that in any way. The question that is separate from that and which I also completely separate from it is that of state liability. This depends on whether the criminal investigation can determine whether any of the perpetrators have acted under the responsibility of a specific State. That question is an essential part of the criminal investigation. Only then will you be able to draw conclusions about possible state liability, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs will tell us how that can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u29	The word "speculating" is far from my point of view. There is a clear interim outcome of the JIT, namely that it is a Buk rocket. We know that these weapons systems are only in the possession of states. If that is the scenario that is being worked on, the Dutch Government should take into account that state liability is at issue. This will therefore be an integral part of the prosecution strategy. Or is it going to be a completely separate route?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u30	In order to answer that question, it is necessary that Mr Omtzigt's suggestions and conclusions, which are the subject of criminal investigations, are established in such a way that you can draw conclusions on that basis. That is not the case now. That's why I said what I said. The criminal investigation focuses on the question: who are the perpetrators and can they be prosecuted? The question of state liability may then be raised. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will look into this in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u31	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u32	The experts from the JIT countries have further developed the prosecution options. At a meeting of the JIT countries at political level in September of this year, and a margin of a United Nations meeting hosted by Mr Koenders, it was decided that it was too early to take a decision. As Mr Ten Broeke said in this debate with a quote, it is also an explicit request from the Joint Investigation Team not now but at the right time to take a decision on persecution and trial. In the meantime, it has been agreed to develop both options, an international tribunal or national prosecution, so that both options are as ready as possible at the time of prosecution. The purpose of the cabinet is and will continue to maximise the chances of effective prosecution. I come to the issue of international persecution. The statute for these options has now largely been developed. Part of this could be built on the concept already drawn up for the United Nations Tribunal. In this case, the cabinet intends to establish a new and temporary international criminal tribunal with jurisdiction over the relevant crimes. The creation of such a tribunal is being worked out with the countries of the Joint Investigation Team, but other countries may, of course, be party to this Convention. For example, the Chamber can think of the other countries with victims, the so-called grieving nations. The establishment of such a tribunal requires the Founding States to reach agreement on a founding treaty and a seat treaty and to obtain the approval of the parliaments for that founding treaty of the Contracting Parties. In addition, the Netherlands and the other founding countries must also draw up legislation for the adoption and implementation of the so-called statute. National prosecution could then take place by and/or in one of the countries of the Jont Investigation Team. A criminal investigation has started in all the countries of the Joint Investigation Team. In principle, therefore, prosecution and trial may take place in all countries. This means that coordination and mutual agreements between these countries are essential to ensure that there are no parallel forms of prosecution and trial. This means that, while no decision has yet been taken as to which country such a national process could possibly take place if this option were chosen, the Netherlands takes into account that it might be possible to call on the Netherlands. That is why all the necessary preparations are being made here too. The comments made by the Chamber on this matter this evening, of course, take us with them. It also means that there are discussions with Ukraine on a number of criminal matters, including the transfer of criminal proceedings and the transfer of jurisdiction. I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that Ukraine's basic attitude is very positive and that there is very good cooperation with Ukraine within the framework of the Treaty. In anticipation of answering the individual questions put by Mr Sjoerdsma, I can say that there is no delay. There is also no question of delaying discussions. There is a very careful process which seeks to achieve, through two channels, as efficiently and as effectively as possible, modalities which may be of great importance in the future, particularly in the interests of the survivors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u33	That is, of course, a good thing to hear, because for the effectiveness of the prosecution, the cabinet itself writes that in its latest letter, it is crucial that Ukraine cooperates. One of the sentences states that the cabinet is currently in the process of taking over the full jurisdiction, which is currently under Ukraine's jurisdiction. At least that's the request. However, media coverage has given me a bit of the idea that it was difficult to do there in recent days. This afternoon I spoke with Minister Klimkin and he told me that Ukraine is willing to transfer its full jurisdiction to the Netherlands. There would therefore be no obstacles to this. Could the Minister perhaps say a little more about this and confirm what that Ukrainian minister said to me? If that's true, that's good news. I think it is very important that we get confirmation of this tonight, because then we will at least be a big step closer to criminal prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u34	I did not speak to Mr Klimkin myself, and therefore I think it would be better if I passed this question on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because he had those talks. Many Members have asked when we can make that decision. We can take that decision when the developments in the criminal investigation are of such magnitude and have produced results in such a way that there is clarity about the nationality and whereabouts of the suspects. Only then can we finally choose the route that offers the greatest chance of successful trial within the Joint Investigation Team. The question is, of course, how to maximise the chances that the suspects will actually appear in court. This also means that all aspects mentioned by the members, the role of the next of kin, the possibility of speaking rights and the possibility of a survivor's claim, will be of great importance to the Dutch government. We will therefore take these aspects into account in the final assessment. This means that the cabinet now also counts and continues to count on the support and cooperation of the international community in any form of persecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u35	In relation to Ukraine, when the Deputy Minister for European Affairs of Ukraine was present at our committee yesterday, there was another point. This concerns the possible extradition of suspects. The link with the association agreement was made. Article 8, I believe, states that, at least in the event of recognition of the Rome Statute, extradition would follow. Now that is not constitutionally possible. Does the Minister have any indication that Ukraine will participate in this later? The constitutional provision remains in place for the time being. The association agreement is not here. Yesterday, the link was made with other investigative bodies, at least Europol. At that time, it was very clearly stated that Ukraine was prepared to cooperate in any event. That is what we have heard, and I would like to hear confirmation from the government that this is being called for. In delivering suspects, it is crucial that we know what we can count on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr Ten Broeke is absolutely right: that is exactly one of the aspects of the talks with Ukraine. Can we, and how can we, in one way or another, commit extradition or surrender, have two different modalities? The results will eventually be informed to the Chamber in due course, especially in the context of the possible ratification of a similar treaty, if that is the case. I am not getting ahead of that now, but it is, of course, the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u37	For the sake of clarity, therefore, all JIT partners call on Ukraine to allow extradition or surrender in any form, even if that means that Ukraine has to change its constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u38	It would go too far to answer that question now, in the context of the current state of affairs. However, extradition or surrender is one of the subjects that is absolutely taken into account in the discussions on the possible treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u39	I do not know exactly how the Minister built up his speech and whether he intended to return immediately to the choice for the country where the national trial would take place. In the letter we received on Monday, I noticed that there is a fairly direct hint of trial in the Netherlands, at least if the national option is chosen; with the other option you can still go in all kinds of directions. I ask the Minister what consideration has been made in this regard. This is not just about the balancing pro, the advantages for the Netherlands. For example, the letter mentions the possibility for next of kin to be heard here. The whole Chamber considers that important, as does the Cabinet, I presume. But I would also like to hear the Minister's reflection on possible disadvantages. In my contribution I said that the Netherlands is really in the center of attention. Would the Minister like to share the weighting with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u40	That is complicated, because we can only make the weighting real when we know that the state of the research enables us to complete the balancing. For the choice between the different options it is essential who the suspects are and where they may be staying. Then you can see which modality offers the best option. At the same time, it is absolutely true that all the aspects that Mr Servaes has just mentioned will be part of the consideration. We shall, of course, inform the Chamber of course in due course. I'll give you a very simple example, without wanting to be exhausting. If you choose an international tribunal, that also means that treaties should be concluded with all countries where suspects might be able to stop, now and in the future, in order to obtain surrender or extradition to that tribunal. National prosecutions, wherever they are, are usually subject to existing conventions. If you would choose Belgium, the Netherlands or any other country of the Joint Investigation Team, that would be ready. That aspect and many other aspects will be taken into account in the final weighing up when the state of research permits this final weighing-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u41	I understand. I think it's a sensible way, too. I believe that Mr Grashoff said it well: better to chew on the choice between the two options for a little longer than to make that choice too quickly. Well, we'll see about that. But within the option of national trial my impression was after reading last Monday's letter from the minister that it is aimed specifically at the Netherlands. Now I know that, for example, Australia has no judgments in the absence of suspects. I can also imagine, politically, that Ukraine is not the most convenient country to organise this trial. Anyway, Belgium might be a little more neutral in this. You could even think of involving a country from outside the JIT. The trial will then be organised under our jurisdiction in that third country, as in the so-called Lockerbie variant, in which Scottish law was used in the Netherlands. I believe that this may have certain political advantages, but I have not yet heard them appointed by the Minister. I was not shocked by that, but I do find it striking that the option of national trial is thought very quickly towards the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u42	There really needs to be a look at what exactly is in the letter. We have written in it that we take into account that the Netherlands could be called upon. That's what we want to be ready for. That is also why we propose to the Chamber that both options should be brought to a parallel conclusion, in so far as they require amendment of the law in the Netherlands or ratification of a possible draft treaty. The state of the investigation will eventually allow a choice. Mr Servaes rightly mentioned many aspects and considerations, but there are many more, particularly in relation to the results of the final study. They will all be taken into account in the final assessment. In the meantime, however, we intend to offer both routes to the Chamber at the same time. So that is going to be very strange, because we are going to talk about an international tribunal and about national persecution, while we will only see later which of the two will ultimately be chosen. But only one question is the starting point: which route, considering, provides the greatest chance of successful prosecution and trial?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u43	Finally, Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u44	Of course. It is good that these considerations will come to light a little more explicitly, but I do have one final question. Does this mean that other JIT countries, for example Belgium, should also prepare national legislation? After all, if only the Netherlands does that, it seems that we are going this way very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u45	Of course, each country will have to make that assessment on an individual basis. In any case, given the fact that the highest number of victims is from the Netherlands, we believe that if the Netherlands is called upon and that is also a logical choice in relation to our objective, we should have done everything we can and what is necessary to ensure that we can start right away. But that does not mean that we are looking for a final choice, because many more criteria have a role to play here, which Mr Servaes has rightly pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr Servaes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u47	I agree with that, but then my reasoning would be that Belgium should also have its legislation in order. It would be weird if we did not later choose the Netherlands on the basis of trade-offs, but for Belgium I only mention Belgium as an example and the legislation is not in order there. If I follow the Minister's philosophy, you would actually want to see from all possible countries where national trial can take place that they have everything in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u48	I agree. I understand Mr Servaes' reasoning. We will certainly take this into account in the discussions that will be held in the Joint Investigation Team in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u49	I have a question as a result, because I have read the letter a little in the same way as Mr Servaes. Mr Servaes' question as to whether the Belgians are currently preparing another in case they are eligible for a trial in Belgium, is, of course, logical. Are the two options now mentioned by the cabinet, namely national trial in the Netherlands or trial through an international tribunal, the most obvious? And is the chance that Belgium will do it limited, also given the fact that most of the victims are from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u50	These questions are difficult to answer, because the Belgian system is very different from the Dutch system, for example because the Belgian Public Prosecutor's Office operates in a different way than the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office. It is also in a very different way in relation to the government. So that is actually a very bad example. We assume that this topic is absolutely discussed by the countries of the Joint Investigation Team. That is also important, but at the same time it plays an important role for us to take into account that the trial may take place in the Netherlands. It cannot then be that we have to say that we still have everything to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u51	It is right that the Netherlands is well prepared for this. I understand that Belgium is not an option at the moment. There are two options for this and they are also described in the letter. A number of advantages are also mentioned of the fact that national legislation is then in force in the Netherlands. For example, we could address the International Crimes Act, as well as the right to speak for relatives and so on. Malaysia would then disappear again because of the death penalty. What matters does the Netherlands still have to do to be considered fit to follow the national route?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u52	We're mapping them. An important role in this is the Treaty with Ukraine, but I cannot support the conclusions drawn by Mr Voordewind. It's open. No choice has been made. Anything is possible, but there are all kinds of routes and all countries may be pros and cons. We're gonna have to take that into account. That's right. Mr Voordewind is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u53	I asked more if the Minister could say anything about the major obstacles that could exist in order to do it in the Netherlands. Are there any? Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u54	As we pointed out in the letter, we may have to change the law in a number of areas. In any case, we will have to ratify treaties and harmonise statutes, including in the international version. We will explain both variants to you if they are up to date. We will inform you fully about all pros and cons. We'll make it known to you properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u55	Let me get this straight. On the one hand, the Minister does not yet want to take a look at the preferred option, but he takes into account that the Netherlands might be asked to allow the prosecution and trial to take place here. At the same time, we are making all the preparations, both for amending or signing treaties and for the national option, with all the legislative proposals that would follow. The moment you present it, you let yourself look into the map and you know what the prosecution strategy should be. So he's coming? How am I supposed to see that in time? Otherwise, it will take a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u56	It really is a parallel trajectory for both possibilities. We don't let anything and nobody look us in the eye. We are preparing the opportunity to do it in the Netherlands and we are preparing the possibility to do it through an international tribunal. Moreover, the question of where the seat of that tribunal might be could still be raised. This is typically something that needs to be discussed further between the countries of the Joint Investigation Team.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u57	Okay. My conclusion is that you prefer to call yourself a preferred option. Nor do you indicate what the government's thinking is about at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u58	No. We take full account of all the options and will work them out as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u59	I would like to continue on this point. I am pleased that the Minister responds that is primarily at the forefront, which offers the greatest chance of effective prosecution of the perpetrators. If I understand correctly, that's the point. Perhaps in abundance I would like to hear from the Minister that the possible time advantage that would arise from the Netherlands having its legislation in order, but possibly not yet, is not decisive. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u60	That goes without saying. If, in another country, it is possible to proceed more successfully and more easily with a different modality to the end result that we have in mind, namely prosecution and prosecution of the perpetrators, that is the preferred option. I come to the subject of next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u61	I would like to continue with this for a moment, also because in my first term I asked what makes option one or option two the most effective option. Which variable does that depend on? The minister said we should look at the next of kin. Absolutely. I think we should do that in every option. What makes option one, national or with option two, international tribunal, more effective than with the other option to ensure that people can be prosecuted? What does that depend on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u62	As I have indicated, the crucial questions here include who the suspects are, what their nationality is and where their whereabouts are. These crucial questions are linked to the state of the investigation and we cannot therefore answer them until the state of the investigation enables us to do so. Those are really the crucial questions. They determine the mode of prosecution through which one of these suspects is most likely to actually get into court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u63	Can the Minister then include us in his thinking on how nationality and residence actually affect option A or option B? I think we can do that without speculating.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u64	I do not want to speculate on it now for the simple reason that this can easily lead to all kinds of conclusions. I don't think I should. I would really anticipate the possible results of the investigation. I don't want to do that right now. Of course, the Chamber will be fully informed as soon as the choice can be made. Again, the state of the investigation is decisive in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u65	Then I take up the interruptions of colleagues for this. The Minister says the Chamber will be informed as soon as possible. If I interpret the Minister's answers correctly, there is also a scenario in which this Minister presents both options here to the Chamber. After all, this minister does not yet want to make clear what his favourite option is or what he prefers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u66	That's exactly what I said. The intention of the Cabinet is to submit both possibilities and all that is necessary to the Chambers, to both Chambers, so that by the time that choice can be made, or are already in the process, or are already done with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u67	Whether you opt for national prosecution or international prosecution, these are individual suspects. What is the scenario if it turns out that you still have to move to the country level, so that a country must be held responsible for supplying the weapons system or for not closing the airspace? How does it work? After all, you have already chosen a course of justice aimed at the individual. What if research shows that it needs to be targeted at the country, which is plausible? Then what's the scenario? How's it going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u68	This question would really force me to speculate on the outcome of the criminal investigation. I don't think it's wise to do that. Mr Bontes understands that too. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will deal with the issue of state liability in a moment's time. A part of the answer to this question may also be found there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u69	The weapon system was delivered by a country. Can you later put an international court investigation on the map if you've already chosen that other course of law? Isn't it blocked with that? Can we keep that open?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u70	Even now, Mr Bontes draws conclusions which are still the subject of the criminal investigation. I really don't think it's wise to go along with this speculation now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u71	Those aren't speculations. It's not premature either. It's a very realistic scenario. My question is: is that course of justice to the international court still open or is it once blocked? You have to take that into account already. That's scenario thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u72	The Minister for Foreign Affairs will say a few things about state liability in response to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u73	I'm very interested in the state's liability, but I'd like to go back to a point. We were talking about extradition. As it now seems, the Montreal Convention may have been violated. That is international treaty law that is governed by the Vienna Convention on Treaty Law. On this basis, States are obliged to either try themselves or extradite nationals. They should not invoke national legislation for this purpose. Can the Minister confirm that, under international law, states cannot say 'yes, it is in my constitution, so I cannot extradite', but that they are obliged to extradite if the Montreal Convention has been violated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u74	This question also means that I should draw conclusions from the criminal investigation. I find it hard to do that. I'll turn him around in second term. I am not assuming the facts, but rather the hypothetical situation with regard to the Montreal Convention in relation to the Vienna Convention. I'm not ready for that right now. I will answer this question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u75	I await that with great interest. It is indeed speculation as to the state's liability, but who is investigating it? Can the JIT also address the question of whether or not to close the airspace? Is that within his remit, which we don't know exactly? Or is that outside the JIT's remit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u76	The Joint Investigation Team is about his own investigation. It's an independent criminal investigation. Mr Omtzigt knows that governments are not in a position to do so. That didn't happen. There is an agreement between the independent investigative bodies of the Joint Investigation Team countries and they provide their own interpretation. It has been clearly stated that the focus is on individuals and the criminal liability of individuals. In this context, the Joint Investigation Team has announced that there are 100 people in the picture who may be considered a suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u77	I understand they're talking about individuals. Let me put it this way. One of the states within the JIT probably should have shut down its airspace. Can the state say that that part isn't being investigated? Or can the other four states within the JIT at that time say that they do want to investigate? I am concerned whether a country within the JIT, if the other four countries were to agree that this question is on the agenda, should block it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u78	I do not think that is the case. I think that's the best way to answer it. There is no blocking of research topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u79	Does this mean that a country cannot say that either the evidence or the investigation should not go in that direction? Is JIT free to decide by majority to also examine whether Ukraine should have closed its airspace or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u80	I just said that there are no blockades. I cannot answer Mr Omtzigt's question. It's really about the independent position of the Joint Investigation Team. There may be countries that would like me to philosophize about that. I shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u81	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u82	I understand there's no speculation about that. I just want to know if JIT has the freedom to decide by majority. We have not seen the JIT Treaty; the Chamber cannot see it. If it is decided to investigate this, does one of the countries actually have a right of veto? If that is the case, there is an understanding. But then another investigation may have to be started. Is it okay for the JlT to investigate this, if that's what a majority wants? Can't a country block it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u83	I'm sticking to the answer I gave. There is no obstacle within the Joint Investigation Team. For the rest, it is not appropriate to answer questions relating to cooperation. That is not wise in this case. The next issue concerns the care of relatives. The government and the Joint Investigation Team are very much in favour of this. It is very important that survivors are informed as well as possible. Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Bommel and Mr Servaes asked. There is regular consultation with the next of kin, but there have also been discussions with other groups of next of kin. Through the so-called IVC, all survivors are informed about current events. The cabinet is always open to discussing other options for serving the next of kin group with representatives. If that is possible, we are open and will be open to it. The question is whether this also means that information can be provided by the Joint Investigation Team on the criminal investigation, but Mr Voordewind understands that. In any case, the Cabinet is always willing, and the Joint Investigation Team is also willing to provide information to the extent possible. Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Bommel and Mr Van der Staaij asked about the involvement of the relatives in the course of justice. I have already said that it is very important for the Dutch Government that the right to speak is possible and that relatives can join the criminal proceedings in order to obtain compensation. This is indeed one of the criteria that we will be looking at, and this may also determine the choice at the end of the day, because not all countries have such systems. So that all plays a role in this final assessment. Mr Van Bommel asked how further care for the next of kin was arranged. Regular consultations are held and the discussions that the next of kin themselves are also being considered, to see if there are any questions that we may be able to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u84	The latter reassures me. My question concerns the previous part, namely the progress of information. Talks with next of kin have shown me that, above all, further information on the process is desirable and not so much about its content. It may not always be easy either. When will there be a trial in court? When will names be announced? These things will not all be predictable in advance, but there was an explicit desire on the part of next of kin to get more insight into the process. Would the Minister also like to emphasise this in the information sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u85	I will. Moreover, I have the impression that the way in which information was provided for the summer recess and at this meeting is very much appreciated by the relatives. Mr Van Bommel's concern is simply one of the current tasks we have with each other. We must ensure that the next of kin are informed about all aspects, including criminal investigations. The primacy of criminal investigation lies, of course, with the Joint Investigation Team, but I fully understand that concern and I am also pleased that Mr Van Bommel is presenting it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u86	I have an addition to Mr Van Bommel's question. The Cabinet is therefore prepared to provide information on the investigation by the Joint Investigation Team and the Public Prosecutor. I also understand that this is not just about the trial. But the question was also explicit whether the cabinet is prepared to give a confidential look behind the scenes about what the cabinet's commitment is to allow all parties to participate in the investigation. So it's not just about procedural information. There is, of course, a lot behind the scenes and the commitment of the cabinet is undoubtedly large, but that is not always known to the next of kin. So the question was whether the cabinet is willing to do so, but I can already see the Minister nodding to share the commitment of the cabinet behind the scenes with the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mr Voordewind asks the question exactly as he should. As he understands, behind the scenes is not for nothing behind the scenes. If what is happening behind the scenes allows us to make communications about it, we will, of course, do so. But then I might as well do it here, 'cause then everybody knows. But I understand very well what Mr Voordewind is saying. We are always convinced that if we can share information, we will. Then I come to the question put by Mr Omtzigt on the provision of data by the Americans. In response to a Dutch request for legal aid, the United States provided a report in which they presented the assessment of the information on the downfall of the MH17. That report could be used in a lawsuit. The report supports the Joint Investigation Team's conclusions regarding the weapon used and the firing site. That was also reported by the Joint Investigation Team during the press conference. At that time, the JIT explicitly stated that I should perhaps repeat that it has sufficient research results, including radar images and other evidence, to draw certain conclusions about the weapon used, the firing site and the supply and disposal route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u88	Is that report in a court of law also visible by the judges and by the defendant's defense?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u89	It is explicitly intended that this report can be used in the trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u90	So the defense can see it? I understand that that doesn't apply to all the data, but can you see it, so it can be contested? The point is that it is not some kind of notice of office, but that the defence may also oppose it, and that is also true of the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u91	With all due respect, I do not know the report as it should be, and I cannot therefore speculate on its content with Mr Omtzigt. The report is a public part of a possible trial. And that means that, of course, the defense has to ask all the questions about it. That must be done above all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u92	I take note that it's a public part of the trial. I'm very happy about that. I am asking this because a Deputy Minister of the United States, a Mrs Nuland, has explicitly said in an interview that is also available through the official website of the US Government, that the US will take very serious consideration of a request from the Dutch Government, those are the people who are now talking to us to declassify the report. I give the government very serious consideration not now, but when that is necessary during the trial, to make that request. If a person asks for that in the trial, is the government prepared to make that request to the US Government?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u93	A report has been submitted by the US government to the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis of a request for legal aid issued by the Dutch Public Prosecutor to the Americans. That report is part of the conclusion of the JIT that there is sufficient evidence in relation to the three aspects on which it has given a presentation. That report could be used in a lawsuit. The Dutch government will always provide assistance to the Dutch Public Prosecutor and to the JIT. The Dutch Government does not play a role for other parties in a possible trial. But let's not speculate again about what's going to happen during the trial. I suggest we just look at what needs to happen when it's time. Mr Omtzig also asked about the role of the Russian Federation and information. As has been said, information has been provided today by the Russian Federation. The JIT will determine what kind of information that is. I note, also on behalf of the Foreign Minister, that there has been regular talks with the Russian Federation on radar images and other information. Also during the conversation for which the Russian ambassador was summoned, the subject of radar images was discussed. Then it was promised that they would be delivered. This also happened later in a conversation between our ambassador and the Russian Deputy Minister of State Meshkov on 3 October last. The Dutch government then transferred that willingness from the Russian Federation to the Dutch OM and the JIT. Then the D.A. confirmed that that information, if it came, would be reviewed and, if necessary, involved. The D.A. has not yet requested further diplomatic support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u94	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u95	I'm done with this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u96	All right, but it is striking that information is provided exactly during the debate. I also see the Foreign Minister thinking: some things are too coincidental if they are handed over at this time after two and a half years. We will hear the information at some point after the debate. Of course, the analysis of authenticity will take days and weeks. Has the Russian Government also clarified how radar images can be untraceable for more than two years and then surface in one go?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u97	Not as far as we know. We also don't know if that information contains radar footage. I should also like to warn against speculation. We have received information that we do not know what it is. That will not happen until the JlT makes announcements about it. The information was not made available to the Dutch Government, but to the JIT or the Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u98	I understand. The Foreign Office diplomats are the ones who are handing it over and not the ones who are watching it. That's certainly not their role. I asked the question for another reason. Of course, the answer to the parliamentary questions shows that the ambassador was asked for the exact reason. But it turns out that Russia still hasn't given a reason why it hasn't come up with data for two years and why they haven't done it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u99	I just verified that: there was no reason for it. But we also don't know if there's any radar footage now. This question cannot therefore be answered in this way either, because we do not know what the content of that information is. Then I come to Mr Omtzigt's question on archiving. For the implementation of the motion-Omtzigt (33997, No. 73) is a project leader at the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security, in which the National Archivist supports with knowledge and expertise. As Mr Omtzigt asked, the Heritage Inspectorate is closely involved in this project. The project aims at identifying and indexing the information, ensuring sustainable accessibility and making follow-up arrangements on the transmission of that information. It is foreseen that the project itself will be completed in October 2017. I will inform the Chamber, at Mr Omtzigt's request, of the state of play and of the way in which the Heritage Inspectorate is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u100	Have you finished archiving the item?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u101	I'm done with archiving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u102	Thank you for that commitment. I very much appreciate that we will hopefully have a more detailed explanation, of course without the underlying documents. Those, but certainly also the political decision-making documents, are quite confidential as long as the criminal proceedings run. They only need to be preserved in order to form a judgment later on. Unfortunately, that will only be five years from now, perhaps ten years from now, after these trials have been completed. I would also like to have some insight into the selection criteria for what is being saved, especially as far as that was explicitly stated in my motion. The request is to take this with you and also to inform the Chamber of the location of the selection lists in the letter which comes to the Chamber against the ceremony.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u103	I will take those aspects and answer them as far as I can. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about ICAO and airspace. In this context, Mr Van Bommel has asked the government to come and speculate with him on possible alternative scenarios, in particular on whether there could have been other fighter jets nearby. In the press conference, the Joint Investigation Team has shown in great detail that it has examined all scenarios and that it is impossible that MH17 was shot down by another plane. The possibility of an accident and the possibility of a terrorist attack within the aircraft are also excluded. That means there's only one scenario left. That's the final scenario the Joint Investigation Team has made announcements about. I cannot answer the question as to whether the Dutch Government is then able to answer the question as to whether there were other devices in the vicinity of MH17, because that is part of the criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u104	I do not think there is much to argue about the scenarios that the Minister excludes in the follow-up to the report, but the scenario that at some point there was another aircraft near the MH17 that could have been the actual target is not excluded. Is that a correct observation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u105	I am no longer fully prepared for the press conference, but I do not think that this part has been explicitly addressed. That means that it is still the subject of criminal investigation, because that is part of the question: why? That question hasn't been answered by the Joint Investigation Team. The question of why what took place is the subject of criminal investigation. I'm sure this is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u106	So the Minister says in so many words that this scenario is not excluded. We have no disagreement about the scenarios that have been excluded, but this scenario, which I have outlined in my initial contribution, is therefore not excluded. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u107	This scenario could, in my firm belief, be part of the follow-up steps taken by the Joint Investigation Team. Mr Ten Broeke asked about the state of play at ICAO. On ICAO, moreover, there is an immediate general consultation with the Secretary of State, who can undoubtedly be much more comprehensive and wants to inform the Chamber of its own discussions and actions in ICAO. I can tell Mr Ten Broeke that it was agreed in ICAO to clarify the rules on the responsibility of states for closing their airspace in the event of conflicts that pose a threat to aviation. It is also about the provision of information by such states. The ICAO General Assembly did not exclude an amendment to the Chicago Convention with regard to airspace closure. In the coming period, when the exact rules become known and discussed in ICAO, we will need to see how far we can get with this. Mr Ten Broeke also asked about the retention of radar images. The agreement in ICAO at the beginning of this month means that ICAO will make clear in its rules that all information relevant to accident investigations will have to be kept. The same applies to radar information. There will then be no room for differences of interpretation on ICAO rules in this area. Mr Van Bommel asked what the government's view was that the Dutch Traffic Flyers Association was critical of the agreement in ICAO. The ICAO Agreement indicates that further tightening and clarifying international rules on flight over conflict areas is endorsed by all ICAO States. The recommendations of the Safety Research Council addressed to ICAO have been endorsed and are also developed with priority. What they will look like in the end is not yet known. The exact criticism is not entirely clear to me, but of course the Secretary of State of I and M will be happy to discuss this with the Dutch Traffic Flyers Association. Mr Omtzigt asked about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u108	Since the Minister doesn't exactly know that criticism, I'd like to tell him. The criticism is that countries become responsible but are not obliged and that there are no sanctions against countries that do not share that information with other countries and with other airlines. That is precisely where the pain is, because there was also a great political and even commercial interest in the case of Ukraine not to close the airspace. Air transport is a private commercial business, but it is also extremely annoying for countries to have to close down airspace. That is where the pain is: it is not mandatory and there are no sanctions. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u109	I propose that the Secretary of State of I and M review the latest state of affairs with the airplanes. Mr Van Bommel will then be able to discuss these aspects in general with her. It led those negotiations and talks at ICAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u110	I find this somewhat unsatisfactory, because this has always been the subject of discussion on the airspace and the responsibility of Ukraine. I hope, however, that we can continue to involve this issue in this debate, because lessons must also be learned from what has happened here. If it has to do with the responsibility of countries that do open up the airspace, when it has also been clearly stated by the OVV that this should not have happened, then we should also include it in this issue and not just discuss it with the I and M Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u111	It is precisely because it is so important that there is a separate AO on this issue with the Secretary of State. The Dutch Government considers it very important, precisely because of Mr Van Bommel's reasoning, that we include the lessons and recommendations of the OVV in the discussions with ICAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u112	I actually intended not to talk about airspace in this debate and to keep it for the other debate, but Mr Ten Broeke was right to say so. I would also like to discuss this with the Minister. We have had very serious debates on this. We also disagreed with the cabinet on the pace and the rush that had to be made, but in the end there were perhaps three or four, if I were to count one more motion from the Chamber. One saw the creation of a covenant between civil aviation companies and intelligence services. In a second motion, which was dissuaded, I remember that very well; in my view, the Prime Minister, although adopted, was called upon to regulate capacity to shape it. Now I understand that (a) that covenant is not being implemented adequately and that (b) that capacity is not regulated. I would like a response from the Minister in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u113	I have not prepared for this, because I am working closely with the Secretary of State for I and M on this point, but I will take this question with me in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u114	In the debate with Mr Van Bommel just now, the Minister indicated that there is a possible scenario that there were other aircraft near the MH17 at the time of the attack. In my opinion, the OVV said at the time that this is not the case and that this is not a scenario, but the Minister suggests that this can still be the subject of research. What is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u115	Now we really need to be careful, because questions are being asked here that speculate on something that is the subject of criminal investigation. I know the report from the O.V.V. Mr Bontes knows that too. I do not want to speculate on this in any way. The Joint Investigation Team has said what it said about the criminal investigation. Everything else is the subject of criminal investigation. I didn't say anything about that. So I'm not saying anything about it now. It's not my job to say anything about that. I'm simply basing myself on what the Joint Investigation Team has reported. As I know, it has not mentioned this aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u116	The Minister is unclear. The OVV has clearly indicated that this is not a scenario. By saying that the subject can become research, the Minister feeds speculations. At last, that was the end of the story; there were no planes in the neighborhood, and now the minister is going to feed the speculations again. The Minister must be clear: is it a scenario or is it not a scenario? The O.V.V. said he didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u117	I do not make any communication on any scenario for the simple reason that it is not my job to make substantive communications about criminal investigations. Only one party does that: the Joint Investigation Team. I said exactly what I said about it, with all due care. I'm not gonna say anything more than that. There is no lack of clarity: the criminal investigation is a criminal investigation and the communications are made by the Joint Investigation Team, not by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u118	The Minister makes a mistake here and is afraid to admit it. Be honest and say: I am not ready, I do not know the situation and the file sufficiently. This isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u119	I would point out that I am not making any communication on the criminal investigation, of which I do not, of course, know the underlying files and therefore cannot make any communication. So I cannot do what Mr Bontes is asking. I won't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u120	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their input. I will address specifically the issues related to the international strategy on JIT support. I will address some aspects relating to the European Union and the United Nations. Let me say something about the Russian Federation's criticism of the investigation and the reaction of the Netherlands to it. I would also like to comment on a number of remaining comments, concerning Ukraine and the so-called state liability. The Minister for Security and Justice has just explained in detail what the government's response is to the first conclusions of the criminal investigation, what options are being developed and how decisions are being taken. We have always worked very closely with each other. That's what we do as a cabinet. I am particularly concerned about the questions relating to international diplomatic support. It is important, because I very much agree with the House on this point, despite the fact that we regret the greatest number of victims, we are not alone in it. Not only are there the countries that participate in the JIT, but also the grieving nations and actually the entire international community. I will explain in a moment how we forge and feed that international coalition every day. It is my job as Foreign Minister to keep that support as broad as possible and to ensure that international cooperation is as flexible as possible. I'm personally committed to that, too. It's our duty, too. In almost all meetings with fellow ministers, the MH17 is discussed. This applies to almost all meetings in all international fora. Firstly, this is of course happening within the United Nations, but also within the European Union, the OSCE and the Council of Europe and at the recent ASEM (Asia-Europe Meeting). Such meetings are also being used by the Dutch government to tell us again where the investigation is, how we are doing it step by step and where there is support. We also work together with a country like Malaysia. Also in almost all high-level discussions and regular diplomatic contacts, the MH17 is always on the agenda for the Dutch government. Indeed, in many countries that had no victims themselves, the continued interest in the MH17 was not automatically given. That is precisely why it is important to keep raising this issue and to make it clear that the Netherlands will not rest until justice is done to the many victims and their loved ones. Partly because of this joint commitment with the other JIT countries, in which we cooperate well, we succeed. The reactions we get are generally encouraging. For example, the first conclusions of the Joint Investigation Team have been positively received worldwide. Let me illustrate this with a few examples. Many countries of all continents have issued statements to welcome the presentation, stressing that the results are an important step towards truth finding. The conclusions are widely seen as thorough, careful and independent, and that is positive. Let me mention a few comments. The Secretary-General of the United Nations expressed his support following the JIT report. This is crucial because of Resolution 2166 and because the international community as a whole has a responsibility in it. The High Representative of the European Union is the same. The Secretary-General of NATO did so. It also applies to the members of the UN Security Council; not to all but to a lot. I'll get back to you on that. In any case, it was the United States, the United Kingdom and France. But countries such as Germany, Canada, New Zealand, Israel, Romania and Ireland also explicitly expressed their support in this way. This support from the international community is essential for the work of the JIT; I very much agree with the Chamber. To be honest, this support is also a good thing for the many survivors. The Prime Minister will comment on the specific comments made at the European Council. In any case, the President-in-Office of the Council has once again expressed support for the criminal investigation. In addition to creating support and facilitating cooperation, it is up to the Cabinet to inform the UN Security Council about the progress of the criminal investigation. This is important because Resolution 2166 is at its core. So we have to keep it alive. That is why the response of the Secretary-General of the United Nations is essential. There is, of course, a political strategy for this. On 20 September, knowing that the JIT report would come out a little later, we held a high-level meeting in New York of the Foreign Ministers of Australia, Belgium, Malaysia, Ukraine and the Netherlands, precisely to discuss the ongoing efforts to obtain justice regarding the taking down of flight MH17. Those ministers met in New York, wherever that belongs and where they spoke last year. That was then about the tribunal, which failed, which indeed depended on a single veto. Ministers again adopted a joint approach one week before the JIT report. They remain in favour of the Security Council's demand in Resolution 2166 and their own governments are determined to hold those responsible for taking down flight MH17 to account. They also recalled the Security Council's demand that all States should fully cooperate in the efforts. Everyone there, all the countries of the Joint Investigation Team without exception, has also publicly supported the international and independent research conducted by the JIT and the interim results of which became known on 28 September. Ministers also discussed progress in developing the prosecution mechanism. I am not going to go into that now, but there has also been joint action. What's the wisest thing to do now? In this context, too, we have indicated that we are working together and in parallel on these two important options. Mr Servaes and others have rightly said that this must always be taken into account in an international context, whatever strategy you choose. I think it was important that that consensus was re-appointed. I have a whole series of very specific statements, including by the Secretary-General, Mrs Mogherini, the Secretary-General of NATO and the United States, France, the United Kingdom, Germany, New Zealand, Canada, Israel, Romania, Ireland, Ukraine, Belgium, Australia and Malaysia. I can go on like this, but I'm not going to list all of this. They have all expressed direct and active support. We stay together. The international community bears this responsibility together. I think it is important to say that, because Members are right to ask me if I am doing well with the international strategy. We are actually doing nothing else at all levels. On behalf of the JIT, I did indeed inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations on 28 September of the first conclusions of the JIT. They've been welcomed. That's important. The Netherlands will, of course, continue to inform the UN Security Council as a coordinating country in criminal investigations. When this is needed again, it is of course important to do everything in our power here. Mr Omtzig asked about the letters from the family members. It is incredibly important that they are recognised by international leaders, but I am not, of course, talking about their answers. I brought the letters of next of kin to both Minister Lavrov and Minister Klimkin. The letter to Putin was answered in February. It is not for me to judge whether that answer is exactly what they would have wanted to hear. I think it is important for us to be good mediators as next of kin, also internationally. I think that's important. Meanwhile, the letter has been answered to Secretary of State Kerry. The same applies to the letter to Mrs Mogherini. A group of next of kin sent her a letter. The answer is, I think, the most important. Of course, the next of kin have to judge for themselves how they look at those letters. There may not have been answers to all the questions, but at least there is clear support. This concerns not only the importance of finding the truth for the relatives, but also the political statements. They are important, so that we go that way together step by step. The Netherlands should not do so alone; Members have rightly pointed this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u121	I have two distinctive questions on this subject. The first one is about the next of kin letters. The Russian Federation has not sent an official reply, while others, such as Minister Kerry, President Poroshenko and the High Representative Mogherini, have in any case written back a letter themselves. The Russian Federation didn't do that. How does the Minister judge that? What did he do about it so that the Russian government would answer that letter itself? Secondly, certain questions have not been answered at all. The Minister said so. Does the Minister regret that, or does he think it's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u122	I do not believe that my judgments or what I think exactly of answering questions by leaders of other countries are important. I would point out that the letter to Mr Putin was answered by the head of the Russian aviation authorities in February. I have no further judgment on that. I think it is important that an answer has been given. I have no further substantive judgment. I think it is up to the next of kin to judge that first rather than myself. As far as Mrs Mogherini is concerned, the answer was partly also on the issue of radar data. In order to remove any misunderstandings about this, it is important to say again here, I think that the Minister of V and J did the same that the JIT clearly stated at the presentation on 28 September that the issue of radar images could be closed as far as the JIT is concerned. The cabinet has no insight into the exact information the JIT has. After all, the investigation is independent. It is said to have sufficient evidence to reach the conclusions that have been drawn, including radar images. I cannot speak on behalf of Mrs Mogherini, but these are the words of the JIT. That's what I'm basing myself on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u123	The question was very precise. In the previous debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that he considered the response by the Russian Government, which did not answer it himself but left it to the head of aviation, also dumped it in the public and did not even write to the next of kin, careless and that he would address it. There is no new answer to that. How does the Minister assess that he is making that request to the Russian Government and that nothing is being done about it? I'll follow the next of kin in this case. They were disappointed by the content of all these letters, not only with regard to the answers but also with regard to the fact that certain questions were not dealt with. Is the Minister going to bring it to the attention of the House? Or does he leave that to the next of kin?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u124	I really leave that to the next of kin. I'm not talking for the next of kin either. If they have feelings about that, I think it is important to say that all the work we do is primarily about them and the truth finding for them. But it is really impossible for a Dutch Foreign Minister to say anything about the nature of the answers. I can like them more or less, but I really leave that to the next of kin. If there are any further requests from them to do something about it, I am always prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u125	My first question was about the fact that, despite the request of our Foreign Minister, Mr Lavrov or the President, not the Russian Government itself has written an answer. How does the Minister judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u126	I don't have an assessment of that. I did not ask the Russian Government again. The letter was answered in February. If there is disappointment about the answer, I regret it with the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u127	I had another point. We have seen all these statements from the others. They were indeed neat statements about the support for the diligence of the research and political support for the future of the research. But I asked with a number of colleagues that, when a country was called upon to do so, there really was only one response from one country and the Netherlands on its own, its ambassador to Russia...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u128	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u129	The Minister indicated that he considered it his day-to-day task and responsibility to keep the international support for cooperation in the search and prosecution of the JIT alive. I appreciate that commitment. The Netherlands, together with Italy, will take a seat on the UN Security Council in the next two years. It is a kind of relay: first a year Italy and then the Netherlands. Does that seat in the Security Council offer the Minister more opportunities to keep the importance of cooperation by all states in criminal investigations under international attention than if the Netherlands were not on the Security Council? If that offers more opportunities, what will the Minister do with it? Will the Italian Minister, who will be the first to do so next year, also be enthusiastic about doing it with the same amount of effort as the Netherlands would like to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u130	The answer to all these questions is yes. I saw it myself when we were dealing with the problem of whether we could manage a UN tribunal. That would have been the golden solution if there had been no veto from the Russian Federation. I saw the enormous advantage that a country such as Malaysia, which is very active in the Security Council, as part of the JIT could ensure that the discussion was well conducted and that everyone was well informed at the right time. In meetings you have more possibilities for influence if you are also a member of such a council. That is why it is important for the Netherlands to become a member of it. And yes, that is being discussed with Italy, as I have already done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u131	Is there any sort of plan to address this issue in the Security Council over the next two years? Or am I asking too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u132	You are not asking too much; it is a very fair question. We're gonna be there for a reason. It is an important role in the highest body in terms of peace and security and a resolution that directly relates to what we want, namely Resolution 2166. All the questions are about how, in future, we will be able to ensure that, to put it undiplomatically, a dent is struck in a packet of butter. If that is the case, then diplomatic force in the highest body of the UN is at least important. I cannot state exactly at what time and in what way that can become of interest again. In any case, I do not expect that discussion to end and that we too will somehow discuss it, but it will of course depend on what happens further in terms of the JIT step-by-step approach and its timing. I hope that will at least lead to new information for the United Nations. Depending on that information, we may have to initiate certain matters, but I do not want to anticipate them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u133	The Minister has explained in detail that he attaches a very high priority to and is very committed to promoting this international coalition, which is solidarity around the MH17 disaster. That's very good, that's excellent. In the aftermath of the Russian propaganda machine around the JIT-report, however, this was not very much felt here in the Netherlands. I'll be careful. I do not blame it on the Dutch Government, but it is of course very important that there are more times like this that there will be a stronger expression of this support, including at other levels, for example from the European Commission. Does the Minister have the idea that next time that could be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u134	I respectfully disagree with this analysis. I believe, on the contrary, that there has been very sharp surgery, including from the European Union. That happened last week. A number of statements have been made. I have again had discussions with the Foreign Affairs Council and the General Affairs Council. I would like to point out how we are given support for the independence and strength of this research. I now come to the point of the Russian Federation, which is actually a separate block. Yes, we have, of course, had great difficulty in finding that the Russian response to the presentation of the first results on 28 September was not acceptable to us. I would like to make a number of other comments on this. So I do not feel this way with Mr Grashoff. It is precisely this evening that we are reporting on the enormous support that exists worldwide on this issue. I think it is very rare that, in the event of such a terrible disaster, there is not really the right word for such a terrible attack in which so many people have died, there is support at any time, to the UN Secretary-General, to the heads of the UN, to the support of a resolution. We know how it is. We live in an international society in which there are many conflicts. Then it is important that this is also the duty of the Dutch government... to keep that attention not only constantly, but also to get support. I call the grieving nations. There are all these explanations. You can say it's just explanations, but that's how it works. That is also the picture we saw when we worked at the UN Tribunal last year, which was vetted by Russia, but we managed to gather countries from all over the world in order to achieve something. In the end, it was only one country that didn't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u135	I fully agree with him on the last example mentioned by the Minister. I'm not doing an analysis here, either. I'm expressing a feeling that's coming to our senses as well. There seems to be a difference in perception between what the minister sees, knows and knows from his perspective and from his information level, and what passes through the Netherlands. Let me put it this way. Will the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u136	Then we would talk about the interpretation of feelings. I don't quite recognize it, but when you hear those sounds, I take it very seriously. I would like to use tonight's debate to show that side too, to support it and, as far as I am concerned, to spread it a little wider after this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u137	I will come back to that international support. On the one hand, the Minister rightly refers to the supporting messages following the interim outcome of the JIT investigation. That is nice and nice, but there is something else about it, namely a response to what Russia is doing: undermining the research. The Minister is in a broad group when it comes to the number of countries supporting the research, but in a rather less broad group when it comes to directly addressing Russia on what it is doing at the moment, namely not cooperating in UN Resolution 2166. I think this is also the point that Mr Grashoff has just referred to. If the Netherlands alone calls the ambassador on the mat, Russia can use it again to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u138	I'll get back to you on that. I really said I'd come back to the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u139	Mr President, I want to be able to finish my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u140	Mr Sjoerdsma has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u141	If the Netherlands is the only JIT country calling on an ambassador, it will only be easier for Russia to say: is it a JIT investigation or is it a Dutch investigation? I'd like to hear from the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mr President, I would now like to move on to the question of the position of the Russian Federation. Firstly, I would like to reiterate what the JIT itself said at the presentation, namely that no statements are made at this stage on the nationality of the identified persons who are in the picture. Moreover, criminal investigations focus solely on the criminal responsibilities of individuals and not on the responsibilities of third countries. The cabinet therefore does not rule on the guilt question for bringing down the MH17. We do this, like all other countries, not even when it comes to Russia. What the cabinet does do is to say that it is very important that Russia, like the other countries to which the JIT requests legal aid, continues to participate in the investigation. Security Council Resolution 2166, supported by Russia in the Security Council, calls on all countries to ensure that the perpetrators do not escape their punishment. That point is therefore direct support from the international community, not to the Netherlands, but to the international community itself, in order to give that reaction, like us, to countries that, like Russia, are trying to discredit this research. I will say a little more about this, but I would first like to comment on the nature of the criticism of the Russian Federation's research results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u143	I just want to answer the question I just asked. I understand very well what the Minister is saying now. I also agree with that, but I am concerned about the way in which what Russia is currently doing is being responded from the Netherlands, from the JIT, from the European Union and from a wider perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u144	So we have already responded together a week before the JIT report. You have seen Julie Bishop and others make exactly the same statements as I have about the actions of the Russian Federation. The ambassador's summons took place on 30 September and related to a statement I can give you from spokesmen of the Russian Federation. This was specifically about the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office, which was accused of bias and incompetence. I didn't think those statements were acceptable. Because this criticism was not directed at the JIT but at the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office, we summoned the Russian ambassador. Therefore, the call was not addressed to specific questions about the cooperation in the investigation but to the fact that the Russian authorities claim to us the integrity and professionalism of the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office. We have, of course, informed the other JIT countries about the call. You have also seen that the Australian Minister and other ministers I had asked them to respond at the same time. Those countries have done the same. We also wanted it to happen quickly. If you do it with an entire group, it takes a while, but it really doesn't have anything to do with... I notice a little bit of.. tonight that's new to me because the first days everyone said "fantastic that you did"...................................................................................................................................................... I do not rule out that we will do so again if necessary, but in this case the criticism focused on this particular point. It is crucial that we have also raised this issue together, both in public statements and in the mutual support we had for this, also for calling on the Russian Ambassador.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u145	I think this is crucial, because I fear, with the Minister and many of my colleagues here, that we will still have to do so regularly with the country we are talking about tonight, because that cooperation is far from possible. Also this afternoon we saw an example of this: for a very long time the radar images were not there, they were there anyway, then they would not be delivered, and eventually they will be delivered. Those are some kind of political games, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u146	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u147	The Minister tries to distinguish between the Dutch OM and the JIT. I understand that very well, but let's face it: the attack on the Dutch Public Prosecutor is immediately an attack on the JIT and on the investigation. I think we are in agreement on this. My point is therefore this: if we appeal to Russia for its lack of cooperation or criticism of the investigation, of the way in which we are investigating or of the research institutions working for this cabinet, let us ensure that we do so as much together as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u148	Once again, we acted together, both before the study and after the presentation. I have discussed this together with the ambassadors. We wanted to act quickly. This was a specific criticism of the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office. Of course, this also has wider repercussions, but you really do not have to worry about the extent to which we act together. I think I really tried to make that clear today. Whether a means is used at some point only by the Netherlands or with other countries, does not determine whether we are still operating together in relation to the Russian Federation or not. I have no concern whatsoever about this, nor do my colleagues. You have taken note of Mrs Bishop's remarks, I think. They could not be misunderstood when it comes to the risks of addressing the integrity of the investigation. One may choose method A, the other method B, but that has certainly arrived; I have no doubt about it. I think it is important that we build this coalition together. If that reassures you: you can trust that this minister, this cabinet, will continue to work together in the JIT for all measures. Depending on the means, we will do so either jointly or separately, or through the media, or in the Security Council or in ASEAN. Some countries play the most important role at some point. Again, this is not a question of blame, but in this case it is an attack on the Public Prosecutor's Office. I believe that the Dutch Government should be able to react immediately in such a case. We have done so in no uncertain terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u149	Before you continue, Minister, I'd like to know how far you're about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u150	Can I have six, seven more minutes? Could that be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u151	I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u152	All right. I believe that the Minister for Security and Justice has addressed a large number of issues concerning Ukraine. It'll buy us time. Let me say once again that the Netherlands is very grateful for Ukraine's aid in the post-disaster period and since then. Thanks to Ukraine's support, the victims of MH17 could be recovered and brought to the Netherlands, also with the necessary tribute on the Ukrainian side. I experienced that myself in Charkov. In addition, Ukraine was willing to transfer the leadership of the technical investigation to the OVV and the coordination of the criminal investigation to the Dutch prosecutor. Since then, the D.A. has also worked closely with Ukrainian colleagues, with the necessary results. I assume that the Netherlands and Ukraine will continue to work together in a shared interest to bring the truth to light and effectively prosecute the perpetrators. I spoke to the Ukrainian Foreign Minister this afternoon. I note that we are working effectively to get the culprits locked up and that this is seen as important both from the Ukrainian side and from the Dutch side. The Minister for Security and Justice spoke about the precise legal elements. The Prime Minister will comment on the statements made by Mr Poroshenko. I would add that cooperation with Ukraine is going very well. That is what Mr Poroshenko said. I certainly do not see it as a threat, but I will leave it to the Prime Minister to respond to those specific statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u153	Before you proceed, Minister, there is an interruption by Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u154	I am asking a question on this point. Yesterday we spoke to the Deputy Minister or Secretary of State for European Integration. It did indeed link the association agreement, including matters relating to Europol's powers, to the file MH17. It suggested that if the association agreement was adopted, it would give more scope. What is it now? Is there or is there not a relationship between Europol, the association agreement and the MH17?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u155	Europol is a completely different issue. The questions asked had to do with a possible relationship between the MH17 and whether or not to ratify the association agreement. I am speaking with my Foreign Minister, and we have just stressed the importance of continuing cooperation completely independently. That is what my colleague said, and this is how I translate it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u156	I also think that is important, and that is why I have emphasised this. However, I refer to the discussion we had yesterday with the Secretary of State for European Integration of Ukraine, which really referred to the role of Europol as set out in the Association Agreement. In my view, there is a separate convention for Europol and, on that basis, there can simply be cooperation with Ukraine. The association agreement is therefore not necessary in order to be able to cooperate through Europol in the context of the MH17. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u157	I can confirm that we have good cooperation with Ukraine. In the discussions I had with my colleague, it has become very clear that there is no threat that this cooperation will be abused by Ukraine, something I have heard here today in rather strong terms. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u158	Finally, Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u159	I'm closing up. There is good cooperation, so we can see that there is no obstacle because we do not have that association agreement. This cooperation is good, even without an association agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u160	I'll leave those conclusions to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u161	The Australian foreign minister, Mrs Bishop, said that the names of the perpetrators will be known by the end of the year. Is that how the Minister sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u162	I don't know. I think that is what Mrs Bishop hopes and expects, and that it is important for her too to stress that it must be done as soon as possible. That's how I understood it when I talked to her about it. She wants to make as much haste with us as possible, but I can't tell you a date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u163	That is strange in itself, because her country is also part of the JIT that is investigating this. I think it is remarkable that there are two voices in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u164	I understand Mr Bontes' question. I also spoke with Mrs Bishop, of course, and we are in complete agreement on this. It should be imagined that this was said in a certain interview. But she did not say that she had precise indications that the names of the perpetrators were known for a certain date. She wanted to express the expectation and hope that it would happen as soon as possible, preferably by this year. I have that hope too, but otherwise, I'm not going over it. So I don't know, and I don't think she does either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u165	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u166	Oh, yeah. The issues relating to airspace in Ukraine were addressed in the response of the Minister of V and J. I would like to make a few comments on state liability. Let me make it clear that from the outset the Netherlands has not ruled out any option to bring justice to the relatives of the victims of the MH17 disaster. This concerns both options for criminal prosecution and options for making a state liable. In this context, we worked immediately after the disaster to identify the different options. The options have, of course, been further developed since then. The Minister of V and J spoke about this. I cannot now go into the exact question of which options have been identified. The Chamber will be informed of this, as it has already heard. Honestly, that could be in the hands of others, too. It is important to note that the JIT investigation focuses on the individual criminal responsibility of individuals. The JIT therefore does not investigate the liability of states. However, the criminal investigation is relevant to the development of options for possible state liability. The determination of the facts is also necessary for establishing State liability, as the investigation of the JIT showed that the Buk plant was transported from the Russian Federation to Ukraine and then returned to the Russian Federation. That was rightly appointed by the members. The JIT is now conducting additional investigation into the perpetrators. In the case of state liability, but I really do not want to anticipate this, it is necessary to establish whether the perpetrators have acted under the responsibility of the Russian State. This means that it is important for the further development of options for state liability to await the results of the JIT investigation. So we're not ruling anything out, but we're not going to communicate about that now because we're giving priority to this line. We also consider them important for the possible further settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u167	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u168	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u169	I'm just confused for a second. I asked the Minister for Security and Justice if the JIT could also investigate the closure of airspace. Then the liability of a state, in this case Ukraine, comes into the picture. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is now ready: it is only about individual criminal liability and closure of airspace is not an individual criminal liability. Part A of the OVV study was ready-to-use: Ukraine should have closed its airspace. There wasn't a word of Spanish in there. Who's gonna work out that route? And is it only a matter of state liability or also of State liability under the ECHR? That is a small legal difference, because the State has to prove that it has acted carefully in the event of liability under the ECHR. We are talking, for example, about the right to life, which has been violated in this case for 298 people. Perhaps countries were careless because they left their airspace open or because they possessed weapons. I understand that the second relates to the criminal investigation and cannot be answered clearly at the moment. The Minister for Security and Justice has made this clear, but when is the question of closing the airspace, which is not currently part of the JIT investigation, going through the ECHR, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u170	The OVV report was not about establishing legal liability. The OVV concluded that there was sufficient reason for Ukraine to exclude airspace above the eastern part of Ukraine as a precautionary measure. Other states have also failed to recognise potential risks to overflight civilian air traffic. That is why we have now started this whole process which the Chamber is going to discuss with the Secretary of State, and lessons are drawn from it. We support those recommendations, which should lead to a clear definition of what sovereign states can be expected and how to implement them in ICAO regulation. But the OVV report is not about legal liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u171	No, that's correct. The OVV report is divided into two parts. Part B is about what happened. The OVV says there was a Buk missile and the plane was shot down. Then the criminal investigation will follow up on the question of who shot it. Part A was clasp-and-ready. It does not establish any liability, but it notes that someone has not closed the airspace, in this case Ukraine. That's the responsibility of a state. Are any further actions taken by the Dutch government, other than improving the rules at ICAO, which we will discuss again with Secretary of State Dijksma? Another country left something behind, which killed 298 people. Or is this left to the lawyers of the individual next of kin?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u172	Again, the government has also made a choice, starting with individual criminal prosecutions. It focuses primarily on those who have been involved in bringing down the MH17. If, after the investigation, there is reason to hold countries liable, to state liability, then we do not exclude that we are going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u173	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u174	It is quite clear that the question of liability about the Buk missile coincides with the criminal investigation. I understand the Dutch government on that aspect, so when it comes to the question of who owned the Buk rocket. I also understand why the Minister of Security and Justice even spoke of speculation. It's so close to each other that you don't bring it up. However, the issue of keeping airspace open is completely independent of who fired. It's been established. The JIT investigation will not change whether airspace should have been closed. That should have been closed. Has the Dutch Government therefore deliberately decided not to hold any other countries liable for this? Does that leave that to the lawyers of the individual next of kin?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u175	I'm really repeating what I'm saying. We are now giving priority to these individual criminal prosecutions. We'll see what comes out of that. Perhaps that relates or does not relate to some of the elements you mention. I can't judge that; that's what JIT is about. I don't think it's out of the question, but I don't know. After the investigation into taking down the MH17, it is up to the JIT to assess who or what is involved. I would point out that we are now assuming that the OVV has not established any legal liability and that the priority we have set out is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u176	This is going to be a repeat, Mr Omtzigt. Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u177	This is a very sharp point. There is no criminal liability for keeping it open; that is the liability of a state. You don't hold an individual liable for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u178	I can't judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u179	Yeah, but that's it. It's not an individual. There is a question and a decision by the Dutch Government whether or not to go after Ukraine because that country has kept the airspace open. They don't depend on who finally fired. There's no connection. The JIT doesn't investigate that either. The Minister himself has confirmed that. Does the Minister hereby confirm that the Dutch Government has decided not to take any further legal action in this case, either at the ECHR or in any other place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u180	All I can confirm is that we are now giving priority to individual criminal prosecution. I'm gonna stick with that. We don't rule out anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u181	Indeed, it seems to me very good that the cabinet does not rule out anything and that state liability is simply on the table. However, I would like to ask another question. I do not quite know which routes are common in order to make a state liable, but I know one: the route through the International Court of Justice. I note that both Ukraine and Russia have not made a statement under Article 36 (2) (c). They are therefore not obliged to cooperate with the Court. Is the Netherlands preparing something that should then be a specific agreement with these two countries and the Netherlands in order to be able to act if state liability proves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u182	We prepare for everything. You can count on it. I am also very familiar with the rules of the International Court of Justice and with the position of the various countries there. We are, of course, always prepared for all options because we do not exclude options.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u183	That's good. I think it's a good idea, too. I told you myself, I didn't know how many routes there were to state liability. This is the only one I know. Mr Ten Broeke just whispered to me at the ECHR. I am asking this, of course, because on the route of the International Court of Justice, the cooperation of Russia and Ukraine is clearly at odds, otherwise nothing will happen at all. Let me put my question the same way. Does the Minister see, on the other route, without the explicit cooperation of Russia and Ukraine, any possibility of bringing this to a successful conclusion if that is the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u184	A brief response, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u185	It is a complex legal question, because state liability is always about international unlawful acts by non-state actors that can be attributed to a state. There are different ways to do that. One is the International Court of Justice, another is the European Convention on Human Rights. You are right: there are enormous complications to that. This has to do with the fact that, for example, a case against the Russian Federation, regardless of whether we would like to do so at all, can only be brought before the International Court of Justice unilaterally by means of a treaty which includes a provision allowing parties to the Convention to submit a dispute concerning the application or interpretation of the Convention to the International Court of Justice. In short, it is an extremely complicated road. I am not going to comment on the merits of this, because we are not sitting here together to say who is guilty or not guilty. All I have said is that, in the interests of the victims' families, we are now giving absolute priority to this individual liability. I don't think it's wise to jump ahead on other roads, which I don't rule out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u186	That is clear: do not rule out. I'll try one last time, also because of something the minister just said. The Minister focuses on individual liability and criminal prosecution. I get that. But it's not entirely unthinkable, let's just say that a Buk system wasn't in a farmer's garage and that it was taken by a few people who happened to be driving by. It is a system that is under strict control of a country's political and military leadership, no matter what country it is, Russia or Ukraine. Nor is it unthinkable that the criminal investigation ultimately leads to someone with a post. Well, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u187	Can I really ask you not to make these speculations? We are trying, through the step-by-step approach, to ensure that those responsible for this are put behind bars. I am in no way pointing out a state or a culprit. That's not my role as a member of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u188	We're gonna have to be a little sharp. I'm not asking the Minister to speculate. I'll ask him if he's prepared for this scenario. He says he doesn't rule out the scenario. Fine, but is he gonna be prepared when this scenario comes out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u189	I'm not going into this scenario. We are prepared in principle for all scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u190	A further question from Mr Sjoerdsma has remained on the transfer of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u191	Thanks for the service, Mr. Chairman. I also asked Minister Van der Steur that question about jurisdiction. You write in the letter: we are still negotiating, we are in a friendly constructive conversation with Ukraine on the transfer of full jurisdiction in relation to criminal prosecution. This shows that it has not yet been completed. I spoke with Minister Klimkin this afternoon, who said he was very willing to do so. To him, all the signals seemed to be green. I'd like to have that confirmed by the Minister. It seems to me to be an important step forward, if indeed that is the case. Then an effective prosecution comes a big step closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u192	I did not have a discussion this afternoon with Mr Klimkin. You can imagine that perhaps some of this was also on another subject. This is not my responsibility either, so I want to stick to the Minister of V and J, who has said what has been said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u193	Now I see two ministers holding each other and referring to each other. I must ask one of the two ministers to come forward and answer the question. The Minister of Security and Justice refers to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs refers back to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u194	This is a little complicated. You're talking to the Foreign Minister, who said something to you. We work very well with Ukraine. We are currently speaking with Ukraine to move forward on the issue of jurisdiction. We're working on that, and it's heading in the right direction, so I'm hopeful about that. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u195	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u196	So there's still no agreement on jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u197	No, there's no treaty yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u198	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their input into this important debate following this stand-by by the Joint Investigation Team and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The directors concerned have addressed in detail the situation with regard to criminal investigations, prosecution options and international efforts to manage them. I would like to take this opportunity to express my deep appreciation for the detectives, prosecutors and all other experts involved and will be involved in the criminal investigation into flight MH17. A great deal of work has been done under very complex circumstances. My thanks and respect for this are great and they go not only to the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Netherlands, but also to the investigative bodies of Australia, Belgium, Ukraine and Malaysia. There are still a few questions left. In a ruling, the Ukrainian President did not establish a direct link between the association agreement and flight MH17, but in a speech about the association agreement he pointed out the good relationship between the Netherlands and Ukraine in the follow-up steps following the terrible disaster with the MH17. I have said that I think it is unwise. I do not think it is wise to discuss in texts the sensitive subject of the association agreement at the same time as the terrible events surrounding the MH17. I have no evidence that the Ukrainian President had anything wrong with this either. I was therefore very pleased with what has been said by representatives of Ukraine in recent days, including in the Chamber. They have said that at no time could there be any connection between it and the other. I was pleased to hear that and in general I remain of the opinion that it is wise not to connect these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u199	The Prime Minister was gone for a while when I interrupted the Foreign Minister. My point is that, of course, this was done yesterday, in the conversation we had with the Secretary of State for European Integration. It referred to the reference in the Association Agreement to Europol, and that cooperation between Ukraine and Europol could be better and more extensive once that association agreement had been signed. We had a discussion on this yesterday, and I fought against it because the convention governing cooperation with Europol is also in force independently of the association agreement. So that relationship was put into that conversation yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u200	Then we'll judge that differently. Then you talk about a discussion about facts, about the importance of Europol and how it relates to the association agreement. Yesterday, the Deputy Minister in the Chamber said that she regretted the confusion caused by the President's statements. It was clearly noted. In addition, of course, you can always discuss whether certain aspects of the substance of the matter can also have an impact on the other, but that is a completely different matter. What I felt was harmful, therefore, is that it was also unwise to consider that last week the President of Ukraine, in a single statement, linked two issues in a general sense, without specification to a concrete instrument, and that he could have given the impression in the ears of some that 'if not one, then not the other'. That wasn't what he said. That was corrected yesterday by the Deputy Minister. But I have said above all on that point that I thought that was unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u201	That's to be commended in the prime minister's office. But when it comes to identifying the technical significance of the association agreement in terms of Europol's role, we simply have to note that this association agreement is not necessary for this cooperation with Europol, because it has its own treaty. It is therefore nonsense to refer to the association agreement as if it were going to extend the scope of cooperation with Europol beyond what is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u202	Then I really refer to the previous answer. I really think this is a whole different order. The President's statements could be seen as an improper link between the two dossiers. That's how they could be read. That was apparently not the intention, the Deputy Minister made it clear. I said it was unwise. In addition, it should always be possible to conduct substantive discussions. Then you can disagree, but then you talk about the factuality of what is or isn't in a treaty. That's not making an improper clutch. That was what I objected to last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u203	I do not want this to lead to some kind of history forgery. We were all there yesterday. The Deputy Minister for European Affairs of Ukraine indicated that she too regretted this link. The link that could be established was one in which she herself called Europol. Cooperation in the legal field was mentioned by others. Let us not pretend here that the statement made on Friday was repeated yesterday. That is explicitly not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u204	That's my impression, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u205	The Prime Minister wasn't at that conversation. I was there. I think it might be useful to talk about things that you were with and that you've seen for yourself. My objection to yesterday's remark by the Deputy Minister is that her statements have indeed established a relationship between MH17 and the Ukraine Treaty. I regretted that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u206	Then it's obvious. Another issue that remains is the question of the European Council. I often use the European Council to update colleagues on current developments around MH17. I did so again last Thursday evening at the European Council meeting. I have had the opportunity to do so and, of course, I have taken advantage of it. I have explained the state of play with regard to the prosecution and the trial. All my colleagues have assured me that the Netherlands and the other JIT countries will always be able to count on the support of the whole of the European Union. I think that is extremely important. President Tusk then said this again at the press conference at the end of the European Council in no uncertain terms. In no uncertain terms, he has reported that. The fact that this type of thing has not been included in the conclusions means nothing at all. Those conclusions, we all know, reflect what was about discussed and decided, but they are never completely complete and they also change again during the meetings. In the past, conclusions have been adopted where necessary. This also applies to the Foreign Affairs Council. There too, precisely in that context, not only our Minister but also the High Representative has spoken on several occasions about MH17. I can really tell you one thing. I have no doubt about the support of all our allies in Europe, of all the Member States, including NATO, in this matter. I can also tell you that the Foreign Minister and I regard it as our task to keep the alliance good and strong on the issue of MH17. We do not have to make much effort to do that, because everyone realizes how serious it is. Maybe I can mention one aspect that I mentioned in a conversation with relatives about the presentation of Westerbeke and his team. I was in Korea then. It was live on CNN. CNN is a commercial transmitter. It wasn't just live on CNN, it was live all over the world, on pretty much all the big networks. They choose subjects that they know interest in. It goes without saying that a flight disaster that took place two years ago, which still affects us here every day because of the huge number of victims, is receiving great attention here and in other countries where victims are to be regretted. It is not natural that such a disaster always, when there is news about it, gets so much attention in all the countries of the world. That's what happened here. This means, and we must draw strength from it, that the terrible disaster of MH17 is still a very topical issue for the whole world, not only in those countries where victims were to be regretted, but when news is available, all the major news channels interrupt the broadcast and broadcast such a report live. That's not because the government of those countries wants that. That is because these commercial stations sense that there is, quite rightly, a great deal of interest in this. This shows once again that the disaster with MH17 is not only a terrible disaster with many victims, but also a disaster in a context that still causes the whole world to work on it. We continue to work on this coalition, but fortunately we do not really have to do very hard. Every time we bring it up, they say, "Of course. There's no doubt about that. What happened there and the whole context in which that could take place are so extreme and terrible that you do not have to doubt the support of my country, of our organisation, of anyone." I wanted to say that again, because it may also be the next of kin that this is still a topical issue for the whole world. I thought that, as a cabinet, we answered all the questions, unless someone reports angry at the microphone now, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u207	We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Bommel... Oh sorry, to Mr Omtzigt. Speaking time is 1 minute and 30 seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u208	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the government for the answers and thanks to the JIT for the much work. I'm just passing a few points, because this is a stand-by debate. It is good that the Dutch government collects and continues to collect international support for the research. Thank you for the commitment to come up with the progress report on the archive. That is very important to look at later how it happened and what we can learn from it. Unfortunately, it will have some closure for years to come. The same applies to what has been said about what exactly is being kept. After some confusion, it is clear that JIT is about criminal liability, not about airspace closure. This means that the Dutch government has postponed the question until a later date as to whether Ukraine will be held liable, for example the ECHR, for keeping the airspace open and thus violating the right to life of 298 people, including nearly 200 compatriots. Can I assume that if we talk about the transfer of jurisdiction, Ukraine will not be promised less or no action here later, but that this is an action point that will remain open until a later date? I'd like to get a clear answer to that. Thank you for the commitment that the US report will be publicly available in the trial. I look forward to the answer of the Minister for Security and Justice to the question about the Vienna Convention and extradition. This is about whether countries are obliged to extradite or try their own nationals if there is a violation of the Montreal Convention. Finally, regardless of whether or not Russia gives the primary radar data and whether the JIT says it does not need them; I assume that the Netherlands will continue to appeal to Russia because it was obliged to provide those radar data under Security Council Resolution 2166, under the ICAO Convention, among everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u209	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, as the previous speaker said, this is an intermediate position. It is therefore very important that we look at matters that are currently under discussion and that we do not speculate too much about possible perpetrators or what legal mechanism will be chosen in the future: national, multilateral, international, in one of the countries. That would not do justice to the work done by the JIT. It could even cross the sequel of that work. That is extremely undesirable. I've drawn attention to the position of the next of kin. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Security and Justice have said that the information that can be given on the follow-up to the process will be closely examined. There's a lot of interest in that. This also applies to information on all the uncertainties that exist and which will remain on the question of when something is relevant, or on other questions that cannot be answered at the moment. There has been talk of caring for the next of kin. We know that in some areas there is a real need for tailor-made work. Where there are cases where, for example, health insurance is not reimbursed by health insurance companies, but where, in individual cases, they are directly related to the consequences of this disaster, tailor-made work must be possible. The role of Ukraine and the closure of airspace will be discussed at a later stage, perhaps not within the framework of the JIT. The last word has not yet been spoken about the crossing of conflict zones. Yes, this point will initially be discussed with Secretary of State Dijksma, but it is much more important that we should finally be able to discuss this issue in its entirety when we talk about it in future. That is an important lesson. Something has, of course, gone wrong here, including institutionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u210	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the government for the answers to our questions, in particular for the clarity that has been given on a point which, as far as we are concerned, has remained with regard to the conclusion of the OVV, the closure of airspace and the initiatives taken since then by the government to clarify it. We have all asked a lot of questions about this in the Chamber. There have also been motions on it. We will return to this during the debate with the Secretary of State, which I believe will follow next week. It was said very widely in this Chamber: we must do everything we can to prevent the Netherlands from being left alone, especially with regard to the diplomatic trail. I agree. I believe that the answer given by the Foreign Minister has made clear why we have summoned the Russian ambassador in this case, namely because the Netherlands has been explicitly implied, and that it is not excluded that it will go another way in the future. But that includes not taking unilateral actions that the Netherlands are putting on its own, such as making a complaint that nobody supports us in, or advocating sanctions that may not make it. You can give a lot of examples of that. They have also passed the review several times in recent years. In this respect, I also hold on to the researchers, especially when the researchers themselves speak. I quoted Westerbeke's quote twice today. He says very clearly: don't do that, don't get in our way. So far, I have no regrets that we have given the researchers, whether the OVV or the JIT, that space and that confidence. I would like to express that confidence here once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u211	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the three rulers for answering the questions. I agree with the last words of Mr Ten Broeke. I have enormous confidence in the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the JIT and also in the step-by-step approach taken jointly by the JIT countries. I think that's the only right approach. That is what I fully support. In my contribution, I discussed in detail the choice of trial options. I have also expressed my support for doing so at an informed and timely pace. However, I would like to stress once again that when we choose not only to look at the legal aspects, no one in this Chamber is naive in this area, but that we should also explicitly look at them with political glasses. Without rejecting the option of trial in the Netherlands, because I also see the advantages of that, I would like to call on the cabinet to look at other options and at least not to rush into the path of trial in the Netherlands. My final point is that there is not enough emphasis on the importance of providing information to the next of kin. Let me take one example. We've talked extensively today about calling on the ambassador's majesty. Once again, I support that. But such a diplomatic instrument is not something that every next of kin who does not deal with politics and diplomacy on a daily basis can put in place immediately. So it's about explaining that kind of thing to next of kin. Why are certain choices made? Why is it quiet for a while after that? When are you gonna get diplomatically on the accelerator again? I ask the Cabinet to continue to communicate on these aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u212	Mr. Chairman. Having thanked the three directors for their answers, I would like to refer to the last words of Mr Servaes, about the importance not only of the criminal route, but also of the political route, of making the most of the choices made and the reasons why they are made or are not made. In my view, today it was clear that there is very broad support for the research of the JIT, for addressing Russia about the lack of cooperation and the criticism it has of our research, and for the commitment not to go in this direction alone and to ensure maximum ally-based cooperation. I have a few more questions. One question is addressed to the Minister for Security and Justice and concerns jurisdiction, referring in the first place to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can he still answer? The second question concerns state liability. The Secretary of State doesn't rule anything out. However, I assume that, if there is reason to do so, we will take that path. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for Security and Justice about flying over conflict zones. Is it true that the parties have not met since the agreement was concluded? And is it true that the intelligence and security services and the NCTV have not been given any FTEs and no financial resources to implement the covenant, despite an almost parliamentary motion? I would like to hear that from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the three ministers for answering the questions. I can get out of the way with the answer. According to the Green Left Group, the government is still pursuing a sensible course in this extremely complex and difficult dossier. That deserves to be appreciated. I would like to explicitly mention the strategy of persecution. I also had some questions about this. I cannot help the clarification that has been given, particularly with the priority given by the Minister for Security and Justice. It is, and remains, extremely important, as I say, to maintain contact with relatives very carefully. Like the previous speakers, I would like to emphasise the importance of keeping in touch so well that you can also explain to people why certain choices are made, what the context is and why you do not do some things that seem to be obvious. Almost I would say: make it possible, in consultation with next of kin, to achieve as much openness as possible behind closed doors. In any case, there are good experiences in this respect, as we hear from the D.A. Could this also be done in terms of political choices and the political context?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u214	Mr. Chairman. It is a very special debate tonight. The Minister of Security and Justice suggests that the JIT investigates the scenario that another aircraft was targeted. That creates confusion. That has really been suggested and that creates a lot of confusion. Perhaps the Minister could come back to that to make it clear. I come to the state's liability for Ukraine's opening up of airspace. You have to start the preparation and the investigation right now, because the JIT isn't gonna do it. The JIT is absolutely not going to do it, because that is beyond its competence and competence. Then who's gonna do it? That is the question that needs to be answered. Who's gonna do that? After all, it is separate from this criminal investigation. State liability must therefore already be prepared and examined. Finally, I would like to see more power from the government at political and diplomatic level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u215	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their logical and coherent answers. I call on the government to use the additional possibilities offered by occupying a seat in the Security Council to the full to serve the JIT investigation and prosecution of suspects. What I'm less happy with...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u216	I hesitated a little, but Mr De Roon is now making a passionate call for maximum use of the UN for the second time. I would like to fully support that call: let the cabinet use that UN to the maximum. But that appeal is a little hypocritical from his mouth, as his party wants to leave the UN.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u217	It is never hypocritical to say at the service of a very important research: let us make full use of all the possibilities. You should not call that hypocrite; you should just call that practical and to the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u218	Practical and to the point... If it had been up to Mr De Roon, we wouldn't even have had that route. Last summer we would not even have been able to try to set up a UN tribunal, because we would not have been members of the UN. I would like to say this to Mr De Roon: think again about your own geopolitical considerations, but do not come to the cabinet to do something in the UN, a body you do not want to be a member of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u219	Now we are talking about the UN and the position of the PVV in it. I would like to discuss this with the Members of Parliament. In the UN as we know it, we see many mistakes, failures and weaknesses. That is what we are saying: we must get rid of it. We have never said that nothing should replace it. We would, of course, like to see a very efficient and well-functioning organisation that can fight for each other at the service of the international community. If, in our view, this generally inadequate, failing and weak organisation can make a contribution in this respect, we must simply want to do so. Then we shouldn't say it's hypocritical. Then Mr Sjoerdsma should simply applaud me for raising that point. I'm moving on. What I am less happy with is the response of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the issue of state liability for the closure or non-closure of airspace. Whatever national liability may be, it should be clear that we have an agreement with Ukraine on that point. I am going to explain this, however, on the basis of interviews that have been recorded by the Ukrainian services. On July 16th, at 7 p.m., the rebels complain that they were attacked by Ukrainian Sukhoi planes. It is said that if I could manage to get a Buck in the morning, that would be nice. The next morning there's another call. It is said that something has been brought and that it is already in Donetsk. People say, "Is it what I think?" The answer is yes, yes, yes, a Duck. These interviews, recorded by the Ukrainian services, show that Ukraine was aware of the presence of that Buk installation and the intention to deploy it on that 17th July, just after 9 a.m. In the afternoon, just after three, MH17 is taken down. That could have happened because the airspace wasn't closed. It is therefore logical to ask the Ukrainians: how could it happen that the airspace is not closed when you knew this? I think that's the job of our government. What is the basis for that? That is what we should want to know, just as we should want to know from Russia how it happened that the MH17 was knocked down with their Buk installation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u220	This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u221	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank all the spokesmen who once again expressed their appreciation for the activities of the Joint Investigation Team and the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office during the second term. Those are deserving words. I am very pleased that these have been explicitly repeated by all the spokesmen in this debate. Let me say, therefore, that the cabinet feels that the Chamber is keenly interested in the way in which the cabinet conducts policy on informing the next of kin. We feel supported in our belief that the provision of information to the relatives should continue to be as careful and as well as possible. That has always been the starting point and will remain the starting point. Mr Omtzig asked about the Montreal Convention. I can confirm that the Montreal Convention does not in itself provide for an unconditional obligation to extradite, but that it follows from the Convention that a country itself should prosecute if it cannot extradite. We must, of course, await the investigation to determine whether the operation of that treaty will be necessary, so whether we should do something about it and whether it would apply. I would also like to say to Mr Omtzigt that the report submitted by the United States to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Joint Investigation Team will, of course, first have to be called into question at the discretion of the prosecutor before a discussion can be held on its disclosure. That's obvious. Mr Van Bommel and I had a little debate on the presence of military aircraft near MH17. I checked this out. The state's attorney's office found that there were no military planes in the area that could have shot MH17. It excluded that scenario. The question of whether the perpetrators could then have had or had a different purpose, can really only be speculated. No other device has been detected in the vicinity of MH17 on all the material held by the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's clear. I now turn to Mr Sjoerdsma's question on the covenant. There have been frequent consultations between the public parties concerned and the airlines prior to the covenant. The signing on 30 June formalized this in the form of an expert group. It met for the first time last August. A regular consultation is scheduled for November. In the meantime, information exchange may also take place, as the experts do not always have to meet physically. One can also meet on an ad hoc basis. That has happened once. In addition, there is also an annual meeting. Mr Sjoerdsma has previously tabled a motion (33997), No. 72) called for capacity to be made available. As discussed with the Chamber on 26 May and 1 July, I can also now report that the capacity of both the intelligence and security services and the NCTV is sufficient to carry out the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u222	Very briefly, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u223	That's quite remarkable, isn't it? I remember the debate before that motion very well. I also remember the Prime Minister's final assessment of the motion. He said that this motion cannot, because that simply means that we have to add substantial capacity to the intelligence services and that extra money must be added. That was the reason to discourage the motion, but the motion was adopted. And now Minister Van der Steur says that he did carry out the motion, but that in the end no capacity was needed. That can't be both true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u224	No, I say that we have sufficient capacity to carry out the tasks that exist within the agreed responsibilities. It's been communicated to the Chamber. Consultations under the Covenant are going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u225	Now we are threatening to get bogged down in some kind of debate game about something that I find improbably important, and with me I think the whole Chamber. The motion contains colleagues Ten Broeke, Servaes, Van Bommel, Grashoff, Voordewind and Omtzigt, supported by many more colleagues in the Chamber. Now the Minister simply ignores the concerns we have about the presence of the capacity and the expertise to do what is requested in the motion. I want to know from the Minister whether that capacity has been provided, yes or no. Because I think he's saying, no, I didn't do the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u226	I'm saying I did the motion. The capacity required to carry out the tasks within the responsibility we have is present. That has also been communicated to the Chamber before. I would now like to continue with Mr Sjoerdsma's question on Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u227	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u228	Such a phrase as "within the responsibility we have" is a kind of standard phrase that has undoubtedly been typed somewhere, but it is not about the responsibilities we have. It is about something that has been added, namely the things that are needed to carry out this covenant. This has been preceded by a serious debate on exactly what that means. The Minister can explain this as: nothing really appeared necessary and we can carry out the responsibilities laid down in the law. Yes, at your service, but the motion asked for something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u229	I've already indicated that the covenant is being executed. The covenant is up-to-date and is closed. The parties meet regularly. Within the responsibilities we have, there is also sufficient capacity to implement the covenant. I do not know what more to say to Mr Sjoerdsma than that. The covenant is here. The cooperation is going well. The Covenant shall be executed and capacity shall be available from the entities mentioned therein. Finally, I come to Mr Sjoerdsma's question on the Treaty. There is very good consultation with Ukraine. There are a number of aspects, including the transfer of jurisdiction and cooperation in the future. That has not yet been put on paper, but there is no reason to believe that this will not lead to a positive result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u230	Mr. Chairman. There are a few comments on my side. Thank you for the support that has been expressed to remain internationally very active for the coalition in support of the JIT. We will, of course, continue to do so, with the different methods and ways that are important. I feel supported in that. Mr Servaes and others have rightly said that it is important that we communicate very well with the families. I very much agree with that. We will really support them in that, because indeed not everyone is following it. We will see how we can do it in the most appropriate way. So thank you for that suggestion. Questions have been asked about the state's liability. I said in the debate that from the outset the Netherlands does not consider any option to bring about justice for the next of kin. This concerns both options for criminal prosecution and for making a state liable. We now give priority to individual responsibilities. I am not going to speculate about which state or whether any option is currently being prepared. Of course, we are preparing ourselves for all the scenarios that may be needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u231	Thank you for that clear statement. I understand the order to do it first according to individual liability. This means that the Dutch Government reserves all the rights to hold states liable at a later date, for example at the ECHR, and will not make any promises or hints to refrain from doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u232	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u233	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u234	Ah, the UN.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u235	I have not yet had a response from the Minister to my proposal to take a completely separate account of the state's liability and the like in Ukraine and to ask how it could happen that the airspace was not closed when it was known that the Buk was there with the intention of using it. Shouldn't we want to know by now? Surely the Minister can't say that we'll see it later?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u236	I have implicitly replied to this in the direction of Mr Omtzigt. I don't have to get a story from Ukraine. The OVV report is well known. That's not about judicial responsibilities. A description of a situation has been given and work is being done on many fronts to improve this situation not only in Ukraine but worldwide, including through ICAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-8.u237	Meanwhile, the bell sounded for the Air France-KLM team. We have come to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Security and Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the spokesmen.
