ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Economic Affairs to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u2	Madam President. On this last day of the year, we will begin a loaded and important debate on three laws on oil and gas extraction. This concerns a few more or less technical issues, such as the transposition of a European directive, which in itself does not call for much discussion. More importantly, following all the discussions on the safety of mining activity, and in particular natural gas extraction in our country, there is a proposal to strengthen the safety importance and direction of licensing. And, last but not least, today it's about dealing with the damage caused by the gas extraction in Groningen, and everything related to it. A loaded theme, because the effects of gas extraction in the sense of physical or other damage and the associated feelings of uncertainty and fear are on everyone's retina. It is also loaded because the whole process of dealing with this problem by 'The Hague' has certainly not promoted Groningen's confidence in our political system, and yet we are now fully aware of the importance of trust in a political system for the preservation of democracy and the rule of law. The debate is also important because "reversion of the burden of proof" is a fundamental intervention in the principles of the rule of law, and therefore something that we in this Chamber need to think very carefully about. In my speech, I continue to speak for ease of reference of'reversion of the burden of proof', but I also mean, of course, the introduction of legal evidence for mining damage in Groningen. Both terms are also interrelated in the Chamberpieces. In my contribution on behalf of the CDA Group, I will address four important issues for us. That is the handling of the damages and the question whether it is best to do so through the courts, taking into account reversal of the burden of proof, or by other means. These are also the scope and significance of the reversal of the burden of proof, the procedures relating to the granting of licences and, finally, the course of this legislative process. That is where this Chamber also has a special responsibility. First of all, the question of the settlement of damages. I believe that all those involved have a preference for friendly treatment outside the courts, in concrete terms through the Centre for Safe Living. The image we have of that is a little double. Many damage has already been dealt with through the CVW and for minor damage that is now in most cases to the satisfaction of all concerned. But at the same time we also hear criticism. The relationship between the amounts actually paid for damages and the costs involved in determining those amounts seems to be completely out of balance. The increase in value, where you have to have at least €1,000 in damages to qualify for that scheme, seems to have perverse effects and, I understand, a solution is not yet in sight. Handling of image-defining, larger damage is still difficult and that also determines the poor image of the processing process. There is also the impression that the NAM still has a major, perhaps too great, influence on the working method and on the fees paid. Is the CVW an independent body or is it bound by the agreements with the NAM? I would like to hear the Minister say something about that. How does the Minister assess the state of affairs in the handling procedures? Is he satisfied or does he have to do it any other way? Does he think the M.O. is efficient? The Minister writes in the reply that he wants to strengthen the public direction of this process. So it looks like he wants change. We also understand that legislation is in preparation and we would like to hear a thorough consideration from the Minister, in which he gives his opinion on the current situation and identifies what could possibly be better. How can we achieve a method that is efficient and effective and also independent and objective? Would it be conceivable for the Minister, for example, that in the future we should have a situation in which the Safe Living Centre is an independent body under the ultimate responsibility of the Empire, which can decide independently on damages without the involvement of the NAM in files or rules of the game? There should then be a fund filled by the NAM which the national coordinator and the CVW can have independently when deciding on damages. In doing so, it seems to the CDA Group or reasonable that the NAM perspective should be given that a number of years can be taken forward with the safe extraction of a pre-arranged quantity of cubic meters of gas, so that the company is also offered a solid and economically viable perspective. Our group has another concern, an additional reason for calling for a more independent position of the CVW and for the NAM to no longer be involved in specific processing procedures. We are getting signals that the reversal of the burden of proof will lead to further legalisation of the proceedings, that more than less cases will be dealt with by court. The NAM will fight with more force against claims that are not justified in her eyes and also take everything out of the closet to strengthen her position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u3	It's a bit early interruption, but there was a sentence I was wondering what the CDA meant by that. On the one hand, Mr Flierman is strongly in favour of better handling and treatment of all those who suffer damage. On the other hand, he wants to include this in a deal, in which the NAM is in fact given the assurance in advance that it will be able to obtain a certain amount of gas over a number of years. I find that contradictory. Suppose it becomes clear that this damage is increasing, that the situation is deteriorating for the residents. Then we simply have to intervene and act on things and turn off the gas tap further? In fact, Mr Flierman does not agree with this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u4	I don't think so. Firstly, the image of our group is that the fact that gas is being extracted in Groningen is not in general under discussion. The discussion is about what is a safe amount that can be won. I do not have a strong opinion on this at the moment, but experts can comment on it. If we make a multi-annual agreement, as I call it now, it would be an agreement which would also clarify the amount of gas that can be safely extracted in the years to come, so without increasing the risk of damage. If you want to oblige NAM to contribute to the handling of those damages, it does not seem unreasonable to me that you should also provide the company with a certain assurance about the activities it will be able to continue in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u5	My objection is that Mr Flierman does not in fact exclude that, should there be more serious damage than is anticipated, if this safety is not properly assessed, there can be intervention in the interim and the amount of gas to be extracted can be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u6	I'm not ruling that out. I think it's a general principle of good governance that when you make multi-annual agreements, you respect them in principle. But there can always be a situation of force majeure or completely unforeseen circumstances that force you to review such an appointment. Making a multi-annual appointment does not mean setting the mind of drivers to zero. In that sense, I think Mrs Vos draws a premature conclusion. Mr. Chairman. I said that a reversal of the burden of proof would lead to further judicialisation of procedures and that we are concerned about this. The CDA Group sees this as a real danger and wonders whether the reversal of the burden of proof, however well-meant, will not be an increase rather than a relief for residents and entrepreneurs in the earthquake area. Does the Minister also wish to respond to this and to appoint his expectation in this regard? To what extent, for example, are both shareholders of the NAM committed to contributing to damage settlement from the perspective of a socially responsible company? That commitment must of course be there, if you want to reach such a multi-annual agreement. This is what I'm saying, looking at Mrs. Fox. Is the Minister prepared to follow and monitor closely how the number of damages cases being dealt with through the courts is developing and, if necessary, will he make proposals to resolve the problems in this area? We'd like to hear the Minister's answer. It has recently been announced that the number of homes that need to be substantially adapted to be safely inhabited is much higher than initially thought. The amounts you have to invest in some homes are no longer in proportion to the value of those houses, which in fact means that there is no longer an economically sound investment in those homes. Shouldn't much more housing be taken out of the market through the buy-in scheme? The budget for that buy-back scheme was, I understand, limited. Shouldn't we reconsider that in the light of the latest data? Will the Minister respond to this? Finally, I would like to point out that the Minister has also informed us that he hopes to have a counter for damages in place elsewhere in the country by 1 January 2017. So that's about to happen. Is that right? I turn to the second issue: the reversal of the burden of proof. As I said, that is a serious breach of the principle of the legal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u7	Since you finished a block, I'm just gonna ask you a question. You have some concerns about the legalization of the whole process and you are critical of the reversal of the burden of proof. How do you feel that the position of individuals vis-à-vis the State and the NAM is in the situation we now have? Isn't that situation just hopeless for the locals? Isn't it very difficult? Do you have to sue the state? How do you see the position of the private person vis-à-vis the State? Doesn't it perhaps raise a much greater objection than the legalization you call it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u8	In the current situation, we are always dealing with procedures between those involved, i.e. residents, entrepreneurs and the NAM. The reversal of the burden of proof is an attempt to improve the position of residents and entrepreneurs in that area. I have no doubt about the intention behind this attempt. I shall come back to the substance of the proposal. What I see, based on sounds that reach us from the area itself, is that it could rather deal with more cases through the courts than less, while all those involved have a preference for handling outside the courts. If that phenomenon occurs, it is doubtful whether the in itself well-meant reversal of the burden of proof is not on the contrary as a measure. I would like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u9	So you will come to a weighing up later, in which this assessment is addressed to the entrepreneurs and individuals in relation to the NAM?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u10	I shall return to the subject of reversal of the burden of proof, surely. That's even the next block. Mr Dercksen is therefore served at his beck and call. As I said, the reversal of the burden of proof is a serious breach of the principles of the legal system. "Whoever states, proves" is the basic rule. It should have remained the same for us in general terms. Nevertheless, in the opinion of the CDA Group, the Council of State has sufficiently demonstrated that an infringement of that principle is justifiable in this case. The government followed the Council of State reluctantly and reluctantly. It was noteworthy that the Minister initially intended to apply the reversal of the presumption of evidence only to new cases of damage. This would leave the vast majority of the current problems out of the effect of reversal. As far as we are concerned, the House of Representatives has rightly put a stop to this. I sense that there are not many objections to the design that has now been chosen in itself. The questions that exist relate essentially to two issues: the geographical limitation of the area where the burden of proof is reversed and the limitation to physical damage. With regard to the first, that geographical limitation, it is stated, on the one hand, that a clear limitation via map coordinates is preferable to the somewhat vague interpretation "the Groningen field." On the other hand, it is argued that all mining damage, including salt extraction in Twente, oil or gas extraction elsewhere or coal mining in Limburg, should be included. Does the Minister expect that the limitation to the area of the Groningen Field is sufficiently clear or should we gradually obtain clarity through case law, i.e. through the courts and through many procedures? The Minister suggests the latter in response to questions on this point. How does that relate to the preference of dealing with as many cases as possible outside the courts? Is there not the danger here that an attempt to pursue a more generous policy, like the reversal of the burden of proof, will ultimately only lead to further judicialisation and more disappointment and frustration? We would like to hear the Minister's response on this point. Let me repeat my question: will the Minister follow this development closely and, if necessary, propose amendments to the law? Extending the operation of the law to other activities, such as salt or coal mining, goes too far for our group. Groningen is an exception, precisely because of the extent, frequency and intensity of damage cases. That is what the Council of State is convincingly demonstrating with regard to the CDA Group. It has not been sufficiently demonstrated that it would be necessary to extend the reversal to other areas or activities. The consequences of such an extension are inconceivable and the normal possibilities for liability are maintained. The latter is important. The risk liability is always the responsibility of the operator within the framework of the mining activity. Anyone who has damage must prove that the damage was caused by mining activity. This is still an issue, but there is no need to prove the fault or negligence of the operator. Will the Minister confirm explicitly that the introduction of legal evidence for physical damage in the Groningenveld does not infringe the existing possibilities of holding operators liable for damage elsewhere or for other forms of damage? Also reversal of the burden of proof in other forms of damage, such as turnover damage or emotional damage, is going too far at the moment. Of course, it remains possible to claim damage other than physical damage. Where physical damage has been recognised and compensated, it may be even easier to file and enforce a claim in the event of other damage, such as turnover damage. My third block concerns the discussion on the safety of mining activities. Other risks, e.g. for the environment, nature and drinking water supply, have also influenced the design of the authorisation. That process takes place in several steps. As they set out, the first steps in this process, i.e. the search and extraction licence, were primarily the nature of licences under the market organisation. In a subsequent phase, when the extraction plan is approved and the environmental permit is granted, the competent authority will consider the interests of safety, water extraction, nature, environment and health in full. However, by amendment, the House of Representatives has also identified the interests of nature, the environment and safety as well as the interests to be considered in the search permit. After the Council of State was critical of this in its information, the Minister again limited the consideration of the extraction and detection permit, but in a new amendment the House of Representatives again extended that consideration. That is a remarkable procedure in itself; I shall come back to that in a moment. In particular, the CDA Group wonders whether weighing the same interests at three points in the procedure would improve the clarity of decision-making and legal certainty of applicants. Applicants can, if we see it correctly, be small players, small entrepreneurs, but also very large players. I would like to point out, however, that the weighing-up in successive phases can also be done by the rulers of a different political colour, in other cabinets. This increases the risk or possibility of an application process being subject to political uncertainty and thus less certainty for the applicant. Does the Minister consider it appropriate to repeat the consideration, as is now provided for in the law? How does he assess legal certainty for applicants? Finally, I come to the legislative process. I have already mentioned that we have to take into account the risk that damages will be dealt with more than less legally. According to the CDA Group, both the reversal of the burden of proof and the limitation of the impact area are at risk of legalisation. This would mean that well-meaning interventions in the legislation would ultimately be on the contrary. As has already been said, the CDA Group therefore considers it very important that we carefully monitor the impact of legislation on this issue and that the government should come forward with amendments if necessary. Otherwise, we can also make a few comments about the legislative process. The Minister himself also acknowledges that this process is "maybe not common" in some areas. I have already mentioned the addition of additional balancing criteria to the search and extraction permit. They were not included in the law, added by amendment, deleted again and finally added to the law by an amendment. That is not common, and that is an understatement. To some extent, the process of reversing the burden of proof seems to be the superior one. The Second Chamber added the reversal of the burden of proof by amendment to a legislative proposal which was essentially about something quite different, namely the transposition of a European directive on safety on drilling platforms. The Minister was right to oppose this and pointed out that legislation was being prepared where the reversal of the burden of proof would logically belong. All this was not to benefit: the House of Representatives, one of the coalition partners first, wanted to make an act. However, despite his strong objections, the Minister did not threaten to withdraw the bill, let alone to pronounce the political power word. That may seem amazing, if he hadn't thought of something else. He asked the First Chamber to hold the examination of the law, asked for information from the Council of State and came up with a novella to clarify the amendment from the already accepted law on the European Directive and to transfer it in amended form to a new law, on strengthening security interests, where the provisions seemed to belong more to their nature. The phenomenon novelle has thus received a new variant. The Minister writes history in that respect. We know novelles if the government wants to meet the views of this house or if a new cabinet has other insights in already ongoing legislative processes. In this case, however, the Minister does by informing the Council of State and de novelle what he failed to do in the debate with the Chamber: to get the reversal of the burden of proof in the right place in the right law. The novelle that is before us today does not result from a debate with the First Chamber or from changed insights in the government itself, but from a difference of opinion and unfortunate treatment in the House of Representatives. We'll just say it's an industrial accident that's not being corrected on the spot, but by a detour. That's new to my knowledge. It is good that it has been corrected, that saves our work, but what does this tell us about the authority of the Minister in the House of Representatives and about the interest in the quality of legislation on the other side of the Binnenhof? In both cases, it doesn't say much good. The fact that it is "maybe not common" is, as I said, an understatement. We like to keep the language neat in this house, especially our group, but it is a mess, it may be said here. So much for our first-term input. We await the Minister's response as always with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. I live and I work in Groningen. In a debate like today, it has pros and cons. You know the stories of all the people who tell you almost every day about what they're going through. That could involve too much involvement. On the other hand, you know exactly what's happening. I hope I can keep the balance in that. There are three proposals which all relate to the consequences of gas extraction, particularly in the province of Groningen. The proposal to reverse the burden of proof by means of the present novelle which incorporates the reversal in Article 177a of Book 6 of the Civil Code is exceptional. In the ordinary course of justice, the principle is 'whoever claims proves'. The cabinet and also the Council of State motivate the reversal by pointing out that in the Groningen situation, the extent of the number of damages and their similarity are an argument for introducing a presumption of evidence, while taking into account the weaker procedural position of the requesting party. The D66 Group understands that. Following the first amendment of the Lower House members Vos and Ouwehand, the cabinet requested further information from the Council of State. This has ultimately led to the present proposal, which also entails a certain limitation. The current proposal focuses only on gas extraction and the physical damage caused by gas extraction from the Groningen field. The members of the D66 Group have asked in the preliminary report for responsibility for damage which cannot be considered physical. We were referring to damage as economic damage to the area, image damage, but also business damage that can occur because the handling of physical damage is extremely slow. The Cabinet states that in all cases the operator is responsible for the damage, but in such cases no use can be made of the reversal of the burden of proof. My group understands that the cabinet has made a certain restriction. After all, the original amendment would include mining activities in the province of Groningen which have been taking place for decades and which have never led to assigned damages claims. The damage handling of the mining in Groningen is extremely difficult. By now, 75,000 reports of damage have been made and 71,000 inspections have been carried out. The process is slow. Because of the care required, this is logical, but incomprehensible from the point of view of the individual citizen. Also, the consolidation exercise is still unclear. At first there was talk of tens of thousands and even more than 100,000 homes. Later that was reduced to thousands of homes. Later it was decided to carry out a pilot inspection under the responsibility of the National Coordinator Groningen. 1,400 homes within the core area, which may be considered representative, were subject to a further inspection. The outcome is dramatic. All inspected homes must be reinforced. Although it has still not been pronounced, this actually means that the consolidation exercise will be much greater than was thought. And that brings with it new problems. Mind you, even a reinforced house can still become uninhabitable after a severe earthquake. What we are talking about here is that a reinforced home can cope with the damage so that people can get out safely. That's all it is. The same applies to schools, hospitals and industrial buildings. The strengthening exercise is therefore very necessary, but seriously delayed. The original schedule, which stated that all homes must be strengthened within five years, is not achieved by a long shot. The circles around the National Coordinator are speaking earlier in ten years. It's stuck. After 2020, heavier tremors are expected. The fields are getting more and more empty. Can the Minister now provide us with an insight into the challenge of strengthening? When does it start, and not with pilots, but planned and large-scale? And when will the area be safe for the inhabitants? The NAM is still involved in the process of damage handling and reinforcement of new and remodelling. It slows down. That is not a reproach on our part, but a fact. The company is not set up for this new task at all. Citizens, companies and institutions involved in the NAM also have difficulty believing that the company is acting objectively and not attempting to limit the financial damage to the NAM. Yesterday afternoon, a report was published on the repair of the earthquakes in Groningen. The report was written by a department of the University of Groningen, led by Professor Herman Bröring. I've been looking through that report. I have not read it in full, but I have read the summary and the recommendations. The report describes the settlement of damages. It says that thirteen organisations are now working on it and that administrative law and private law are all mixed up. Quote by Bröring at the press conference: "The citizen understands the balls of it." He also says that a bottleneck in citizens' confidence in the government is that the agreement between the Centre for Safe Living and the NAM is not public. I would like to ask the Minister to respond. What would be against making that agreement public? Bröring and his people therefore advocate much more direction by the government. He says, "Let the NAM pay the bills." He mentions a number of scenarios. The first is to set up a one-stop shop. He also suggests setting up an independent compensation fund in which the NAM and the State take responsibility together, while the Centre for Safe Living is responsible afterwards. In the second scenario, the State is responsible for the damage recovery in which the NAM pays. The National Coordinator coordinates and the CVW performs. In the third variant, the State takes all care. I would like the Minister to respond to this, even though this report has recently been published. I also ask him to give us an insight into how he wants to deal with this further. He himself said earlier that he was not satisfied with all the procedures attached to it. Which brings me to the layout of the gas building. In the preliminary report, we have asked two questions about it. The so-called gas building was built in the sixties. It consists, among other things, of the State controlling GasTerra and Gasunie, but shares that control with oil and gas companies which are subsequently shareholders of the NAM and which are subsequently involved in EBN, of which the State is once again the main shareholder. In short: each party sits together on laps. It makes decision making complex and public accountability difficult. That's also what's avenging in the damage settlement. Interests run through each other. The Security Research Council pointed it out again last year. The Minister also acknowledges this and says that there are indeed reasons to revise the original building, but that several parties look at it differently. He says that conversations are taking place, but that no further information can be provided at the moment and that there is no time frame for the installation of a new gas building.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u12	I was waiting for Mr Pijlman to return to the report of the University of Groningen. I read that report, too. I've seen those scenarios. I have actually read it in such a way that in the university's proposals the NAM is getting an increasingly smaller role. I understand very well that Mr Pijlman is asking the Minister what he thinks. I am also curious about this, but I am also curious about what the D66 group thinks about this. To what extent should the NAM really be involved in the damage settlement and communicate directly with the victims of the damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u13	I think I've said this before. It seems obvious to us that the Nam plays an extremely cautious role. The NAM is responsible for the damage caused. That's settled in the law. The NAM pays but has no decisive role to play. This would create uncertainty for the citizens. Moreover, the NAM is not equipped to do so. I'm going back to the gas building. We understand that this is a delicate issue that requires great care. It is important, however, that the Minister gives us an insight into the considerations which the cabinet intends to make in this respect, recognising the legal position of the State. The design of the future gas building is important not only for the extraction of gas from the Groningerveld but also for the transition from fossil to renewable energy. As long as the State is closely linked to fossil energy supply, it can influence the decision-making process towards renewable energy. I'd like a response from the Minister. Those who oversee the effects of the extraction of natural gas in Groningen are already demanding a sustainable energy supply for this reason alone. The damage for residents and companies in Groningen is extremely serious. Citizens must leave their homes several times. Church churches have not been able to enter their church for worship and activities for two years now. The church is a national monument and one doesn't really know how to strengthen the building. Companies and institutions are suffering serious corporate damage and cannot tell them because they are drowning in bureaucracy. Citizens can't move anymore and feel trapped in their own homes. For them, citizens who, for example, want to move out of the area because they found work elsewhere but cannot get rid of their homes because the housing market in the area has come to a standstill or can sell them but at a price much lower than the current prices in a reference area, a pilot buy-back scheme was set up. The interest was high and the amount available was limited. As a result, there was a need to make arrangements, to create legal inequalities between citizens and to create frustration rather than a solution. We ask the Minister to open the scheme again so that the citizens are helped who are in fact unable to move and whose future is at stake. I'd like a response. We are considering tabling a motion on this point. Earlier, the cabinet decided to reduce gas extraction significantly in order to reduce the damage. The cabinet wanted to keep the hand on the gas crane. If you look at the facts behind the gas extraction process, you will notice that the biggest damage has occurred at the time when the government significantly opened up the gas supply because international gas prices were extremely high. The revenue was even 13 billion a year at peak with a turnover of more than 23 billion. That was very welcome at a time when the state treasury was empty and the public debt was very high due to the support to the banks. In the meantime, revenue has been reduced to a 2 billion a year by lower extraction and certainly by low world gas prices. That is still significant, but as we are less dependent on it, it is possible to make new considerations. The Netherlands is still a very fossil country. At the moment, an ordinary Tuesday morning in The Hague, 62,000 citizens are generated by renewable energy in our country. I'm talking about solar, wind and biogas. I just looked at the website energyopwek.nl. This instrument has been developed by a lecturer in Groningen and will be further rolled out by the ESC under the Energy Agreement. We are still a long way from sustainable energy production, despite the successes that the Minister has achieved in the roll-out of the wind farms at sea, for which he deserves compliments. Those compliments can certainly be expressed in this house where he had to fight such a difficult battle to get wind approved at sea. The total amount of renewable energy in the Netherlands is still low. We are all with solar panels in the weather and some media are extremely optimistic about the results, but the real problem is the energy supply of industry. Fourteen days ago, the Minister opened Google's new data centre in the Eemshaven. This is a wonderful opportunity for the Netherlands and certainly for the North Netherlands. This creates jobs and also new opportunities. But this data centre uses as much energy every day as the inhabitants of the provinces of Groningen and Drenthe combined. Industries but also horticulture face a huge challenge to become sustainable. They also struggle with it, and some will need natural gas as a transition fuel for a long time to come. Would it not be wise, in this sense, to use the Slochterenveld for transition purposes and to develop a programme with the partners in the gas building? The construction of the new wind farm by Shell.................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u14	I am curious to see what the D66 colleague means by "the use of the Slochterenveld for the transition." Maybe he can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u15	I say that private individuals can switch to renewable energy more quickly than industry. He's struggling a lot with that. I would like to support her in the fight for sustainability, but for that I would use the gas field as a strategic reserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u16	But in fact, you want to help the industry by making its gas longer available. Why don't you choose the way to build an incentive to focus more quickly on energy saving and renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u17	That incentive is and should be there. As far as I am concerned, this incentive may also be strengthened. Of course, it is absolutely not the intention to keep the industry to fossil; you understand that, and I understand that. However, I note the factuality of the situation at the moment. I think that too often it is too easy to roll over. I can give an example of a company that needs a lot of energy and where a lot of people work, an industry that is and remains absolutely necessary in the Netherlands, and where it is an immense struggle, one is extremely busy getting rid of fossil, because in fact there is no alternative at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u18	Is it not also necessary to do something about these incentives? Think of taxes, offering financial benefits to companies that do invest heavily in saving. I think it's a little strange that you say, in particular, "Give them more gas." I would like to emphasise those other incentives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u19	It's a shame that you're trying to sum me up like this. I have just said, in response to your interruption, that we can certainly do what we need to do about these incentives. That could also be part of such a program. I am concerned that we should not pretend that we are almost there in the fight to become sustainable. It is an immense task, a task that is much greater on the part of industry and also of horticulture than on the part of the citizens. We could make a program for that together. I am convinced that the industry itself would like to do the same. Such a national programme aimed at transition can also bring a new future to the gas industry, where thousands of people work. I'd like to hear a response. On June 16, 2009, Queen Beatrix revealed the Gas Monument Groningen. Sailing detail: also the new Foreign Minister of President-elect Trump was present, namely as Exxon's top man; he is quite in the news. The Netherlands and Groningen were very proud of our natural gas at that time. It has brought us prosperity, and it must also be remembered, it is the cleanest fossil fuel. But a few years later, the mood changes. For the earthquake area there is a bitter pill. Citizens live in uncertainty, there has been great damage and the earthquake threat remains. There is physical but also economic and image damage. The companies involved in gas extraction are shrinking their workforce considerably and their often generous contributions, goodwill, to all kinds of cultural facilities are being cut. The cabinet has rightly freed up funds to cope with the economic damage in the area. Can the Minister inform us about the design of this economic programme? When the first results become visible, the D66 fraction asks. The reversal of the burden of proof in the Groningen earthquake area is an exceptional but necessary step in restoring trust between citizens and government. But it's not enough. The challenge of strengthening must now be taken forward quickly and massively. A buy-back scheme is needed to help people trapped in their homes. Economic and business losses due to slow handling and bureaucratic procedures should be compensated. Gas extraction, at a much lower level, will remain necessary for the energy transition to succeed. An economic programme that brings Paris closer but also gives impetus to the region is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u20	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing three legislative proposals that are closely linked: a draft law on security, offshore and gas activities, including the reversal of the burden of proof, a novel on the reversal of the burden of proof and, finally, the strengthening of security interest mining and control of search, extraction and storage permits. And all this at a time when there is still great uncertainty in Groningen about dealing with damage, about repairing homes and other buildings. In this respect, I would like to endorse what the CDA and D66 colleagues have said: what is the situation now? How is it possible that so many citizens are still in uncertainty? How is it that recovery is so slow? Does this also mean something about the position of the NAM, which still exerts too much influence on this whole thing from a particular point of view? I found it interesting to hear from both the CDA and D66 groups a plea for a truly independent centre to live safely. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that we absolutely need to go there and that the NAM should no longer be able to interfere in a repair operation and in the handling of damage, except that it is responsible for the costs. All this has led us to say earlier in the House of Representatives: we want to strengthen the position of residents, but also companies and institutions which have to do with damage caused by gas extraction and which often have very difficult rights at their side. My group believes it is right that the House of Representatives did so. The novelle and the amendment of colleagues Vos and Ouwehand from the House of Representatives have led to a reversal of the burden of proof. With the novelle as it stands today, the cabinet has made a change to the previously amended and adopted law 34041. In fact, the cabinet did not want to implement this law in the area of reversal of the burden of proof and therefore requested advice from the Council of State before the law would be dealt with in the Upper Chamber. That is a remarkable course of action, as Mr Flierman said. After all, the law was already before us for treatment. We wanted to start treatment. The Minister then chose this path. The opinion of the Council of State led to a number of important restrictions on the presumption of legal evidence, or the reversal of the burden of proof, as laid down in the law as a result of the amendment adopted in the House of Representatives. The restrictions apply in three areas: the area in which the burden of proof is reversed is limited to the Groningenveld; the reversal is limited to gas extraction; the damage to be compensated is limited to physical damage to buildings and works. My group regrets this restriction, which weakens the position of those who suffer damage as a result of mining activities. They can be citizens, but they can also be institutions and businesses. We have therefore asked the cabinet in our written input for the motivation for these restrictions. The Minister, following the Council of State, speaks of a "very exceptional deviation" from the "whoever states, proves" rule. It is therefore necessary to impose additional restrictive requirements on the presumption of legal evidence, i.e. the reversal of the burden of proof. One is that there must be very large numbers of damage of a particular type in a particular region. This is the wording chosen by the Council of State and the cabinet agrees with it. Similar legal regulations exist in neighbouring countries. Moreover, several judgments of the Supreme Court show that the reversal rule has nothing to do with very large numbers of damage cases of a particular type in a particular region. My group therefore questions the claim that this is a very exceptional derogation which justifies the restrictions. I would ask the Minister to clarify the cabinet position on this issue in our First Chamber. My group believes that the limitation to only physical damage is an infringement of the principles of general liability law under the ECHR, Article 1 on the principle of equality in the protection of property. Will the Minister respond to this? On what grounds does the Cabinet consider it justified to depart from this principle of equality? Damage caused by mining activities other than gas extraction, such as oil and salt extraction, is also excluded from the legal presumption of evidence. This also leads, in comparison with the original amendment in part No. 12, to weaken the position of those affected by these other mining activities. Would the Minister like to explain this? Finally, my group finds it odd that the legal presumption of evidence only applies to the damage in the Groninger Field. You'll only live in Friesland, or in North Holland or in Limburg. You will only experience damage in areas such as North Holland or Friesland as a result of gas extraction. Why is it that the legal presumption of evidence does not apply to the position of these people, these companies and these institutions? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I would like to make a few comments on the licensing process. For mining activities, there are three stages of authorisation and verification, namely the search and extraction permit, the consent to the extraction plan and the environmental permit. I ask the Minister why an assessment of the vulnerability to the environment and safety is not already taking place at the stage of applying for a large area search and extraction permit. The Minister replied to our written questions about the fact that environmental effects cannot usually be assessed at that stage; this can only be done when assessing the application for an environmental permit when it is clear whether there will be work, and if so what, and what measures are foreseen to limit or prevent any negative effects. The Minister writes that only when the application for a search and extraction licence makes it clear that the designated area is not suitable for mining activities, this is grounds for refusing that application. At this stage it is a market organisation licence, the Minister writes. Or the question of who gets to "borrow" in which area. My group is not convinced of the answer that it is usually not possible to assess the environment and safety at this first stage. Why not have an obligation to include at least all the risks to nature and the environment in the process of licensing? I would like to have another explanation on this point. We fear that a salami tactic may arise, i.e. that once a company has a search and extraction licence, it will also be entitled or entitled to subsequent permits such as the environmental permit. I would like to receive confirmation from the Minister that a search and extraction permit must not confer any right on the actual extraction of gas, oil, salt or other mining products, and there is always the freedom to assess and possibly refuse an environmental permit on all aspects. In this debate, I would like to receive confirmation from the Minister that it remains possible to use a judicial presumption of evidence for damage not covered by the legal presumption of evidence. There has been some unrest among various parties. I also ask for absolute clarity on this point. I read that an environmental impact assessment is mandatory only for projects larger than 500 tonnes of oil or 500,000 m of gas per day. On our question about projects below that border, the Minister writes that the Environmental Impact Assessment Decision must always be assessed against selection criteria according to the EU Directive on underground construction and drilling. For example, there may be cumulation. My group wonders who is assessing whether such criteria exist and who decides on an EIA in that situation that there are indeed mining projects falling within the limits of 500 tonnes of oil or 500 000 m of gas per day. When applying for a permit in the first phase of detection or extraction, the province is best placed to make an integrated regional assessment, writes the Minister. It is therefore up to the province to consider how it obtains advice from the mayor's and aldermen's college and from the day-to-day administration of the waterboard in question. How should provinces involve these opinions and make them really serious for others to understand? How should they make it clear that they have taken this seriously? I would like to receive an answer from the cabinet to this question in order to ensure transparency. When assessing the Winning Plan, relevant provinces, municipalities and water boards have direct advisory rights. Why is this not also regulated at the stage of the search and extraction permit for the water boards and municipalities involved? And why is there no advisory right for drinking water companies when it comes to a drinking water extraction area? The legislative proposal 34348 is, through the amendment to item No. 41 of the House of Representatives of colleague Van Tongeren, among others, so strengthened that permits and extraction plans may contain restrictions relating to the environment and nature. The reason for this amendment was that the Minister of EZ stated several times in specific mining projects that he had no legal basis to consider environmental and nature protection when granting a permit under the Mining Act. We have experienced this on several occasions during the last period, particularly in mining plans in the Wadden Sea region. The Vos c.s. amendment is also important. in piece No. 103 which means that it is no longer possible to set up mining installations in the Wadden Sea World Heritage and Natura 2000 sites Wadden Sea and North Sea coastal zone. This protects not only the natural qualities, but also the landscape qualities of these areas. It is a good thing that this legislative proposal provides more clarity for both mining companies and conservationists and residents on how nature and sensitive nature areas Wadden Sea, North Sea Coastal Zone and Wadden Islands are protected from harmful consequences of mining. It is a pity, however, that this does not restrict the extraction of minerals from the Wadden Sea and the North Sea coastal zone by means of sloping drilling from a Wadden Island or solid shore on the North Sea. How does the Minister view this? Isn't the Wadden Sea particularly an area for which you shouldn't grant a search or extraction permit in advance because of the risks to nature and the environment, and the unique nature and international significance of this nature reserve? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I would suggest to him that he himself said that in the light of climate change and energy transition, we should reduce the use of gas and, for example, no longer provide gas connections for new homes. This raises the question of whether we should still win in the Wadden Sea all the more. Why should the Minister still grant search and extraction permits in new areas in the Wadden Sea and North Sea coastal zone when he says we need to get rid of the gas? I'd like an answer from the Minister. We await with interest the reactions of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u21	Mr. Chairman. Another black day in Europe. Let me start by saying where, in the opinion of the PVV Group, the shoe is most difficult, namely in the political process that has led to the proposals that are now before us. What a long time has it taken the government and the people's representatives to join the people of Groningen. When you read the file, you get the impression that it even happened with some reluctance. In this way, the judge was required to reduce the amount of gas extracted. The Groningen gas has delivered the Netherlands a lot. You may wonder if all the money is well spent, but it was and is a prime source of income and just then you do not abandon your own people. My colleagues in both the Lower House and the Provincial States of Groningen also proved that things could be different. They fought tirelessly for those Groningers. In February 2013 this is now almost four years ago, the PVV in the Lower House already advocated the establishment of a buy-out scheme for affected residents and the compensation of existing damages. A majority in the Lower House was against the interests of the Groningers, against their own people. In February 2014, another PVV motion was submitted to release 300 million for a buyout scheme. All the other parties voted against. In October 2014, a new motion for a new buyout arrangement was tabled. It was rejected. In February 2015, my colleague in the Lower House tried for the fourth time to establish a buyout arrangement. Not a majority again. In January of this year, I am beginning to repeat a motion on a buy-out scheme for homes that can no longer be strengthened. Rejected again. In June, a motion was tabled for the purchase of houses at 95% of the World Trade Organisation value. And four months ago... Oh, well, I'd better stop talking about it. Colleagues in the Provincial States have also played their part in this process. They came up with a motion to regulate the reversal of the burden of proof, in fact the motion we are discussing here today in a different form. So it can be; it can be to be a representative of the people for four years and not just to pretend the last two months before the elections. And the common thread in this succession of proposals and motions is clear: the PVV was behind the Groningers from day one. We didn't leave those people in the cold. The cabinet, supported by PvdA and VVD, voted against all those motions. They voted against the interests of the Groningen. You really wonder how they see the role of people's representatives. How much suffering, including psychological suffering, could have been avoided if people's representatives and directors had been responsible for the interests of the Groningen people? Many of the inhabitants were prisoners in their own homes for years, had to flee their homes and were kept on a leash for years. Our own people, people who were at their wits' end, had to move into outbuildings. It's to get Deputy Shame out of it. Knock on when you come from any country in Africa and the whole government apparatus jumps in front of you. Cost and effort are spared, but our own people were allowed to pick it out for four years. We think that is quite a scandal. Is everything now resolved with this legislation? No, certainly not, but of course the reversal of the burden of proof has begun. The trial was long. There was talk and talk. There was a Dialogue table, but the residents quickly got disillusioned. Turns out it was a monologue table. Mister Dialogue Table itself, Hans Alders, rustled at least 68 million for the Groninger Forum, an elitist cultural icon, which at that time was also outside the contour map, outside the area eligible for compensation for ordinary Groningers. At that time he was chairman of the Supervisory Board of the same Groninger Forum. And that while the ordinary Groningers lived in uncertainty for years to come. Those who do not know where cynicism towards politics comes from may have to read this file again. It goes without saying that we will support the reversal of the burden of proof, a proposal that was presented in the Provincial States of Groningen. Honor to all who deserve credit. It is also good that the outline card has been deleted in the novelle, which is no longer part of the proposal. This reversal of the burden of proof is a good thing, as I said just in the case of interruption, because of the inequality of parties. Go to court as a private or entrepreneur against the NAM or against the State; you will lose it. Other desperate residents, for example the residents of Drenthe who are fighting these windmills, can talk about that. There, too, it is clear that residents will suffer damage and will be physically affected by these windmills and that they will also have to fight against a government machine that does nothing and no one knows. Also on that file, a motion last week showed that only the PVV is behind these people. The cost of bureaucracy in the compensation process is still unprecedented: 36% of the total cost. Does the Minister see room for a rapid reduction in these costs? There is a Christmas tree to stay in the atmosphere only a little bit.......................................................................................................................................................................................... Can't that be any less? Mr Pijlman mentioned 13 organisations. Can this not be a little less and can these organisations not deal exclusively with the problem of compensation? I see now that swimming pools are being self-contained, websites are being built and logos are being designed. Stop doing that and make sure that damages are handled smoothly. Then there's the Mining Act. The new coordination of the licensing system envisaged by this law is a good initiative. But where is the citizen? Where's his interest secured? You can also see it in the installation of windmills; if you do not do that well and you ignore the citizen, then he revolts, also because the citizen often finds no answer in the municipal councils. Another objection from the PVV Group is the possibility to withdraw the permits granted in the Mining Act. My colleague has repeatedly asked the Minister: what are these serious reasons and are they too firm as they are now proposed? Where physical safety is concerned, there is obviously no discussion, but what if a next minister of EZ finds a sea level rise of one millimeter or three or a decrease a major reason for climate, nature or environment? Can licences be withdrawn? Isn't this law very damaging to the Dutch investment climate? The Natura 2000 sites, where no more activities are allowed. In these same Natura 2000 sites, nature-riding organisations are now destroying forests to set up windmills. They get subsidies for that because those trees are burned like biomass. Can the Minister explain why this is tolerated by double standards? This is of course about Groningen, but there are also big problems in Limburg. There are a lot of things on the other side of the road, but perhaps the Minister will be able to give the state of play on the problems in Limburg where groundwater is rising in the mines and people are afraid of physical nuisance and danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u22	Mr. Chairman. Although the written preparation of these legislative proposals has been made by my colleague Peter Ester on behalf of my group, I am speaking today in the absence of this colleague. I hope that as deeply digging or perhaps even more appropriate to do "deep-bendering" as he does. There are three important draft laws in front of us. First of all, the draft law on the implementation of a European directive on the safety of offshore activities, particularly in the oil and gas industries at sea. There are disasters, including in the Gulf of Mexico, which have raised awareness of the enormous risks of oil and gas extraction at sea in the event of disasters. This is the implementation, as has been said, of a European directive which, in practice, focuses on activities in the North Sea. The Directive has brought the systems from the various countries concerned into line. New in this amendment is the application to land of a large number of provisions required at sea. There are also extraction plants and there are also major dangers. If I see correctly, this enlargement is inspired by the comments of the Council of State. My question to the Minister is whether other countries are also going to extend this to countries. In other words, is the logic of this step also seen in other gas and oil-producing countries and in this respect are the systems also aligned? My second question on this bill is what impact the Brexit has on the safety regime in the North Sea, which is the subject of this directive. What will be the British position? Is that what they're talking about? Finally, I would like to know from the Minister what the consequences are for fisheries. There is talk of the interests of fishing in this respect, but has the sector been consulted on this law? I'd like to dwell a little longer on the safety and direction bill. That has two contexts, one might say. The first context is that of our national experiences and problems with the extraction of gas in Groningen, the safety in the broad sense of citizens and the demand for control over mining activities. The second context is that of the energy transition, where the use of the subsurface is given a new light in relation, inter alia, to the use of geothermal energy, storage capacities and the extraction of minerals in general. It is clear that gas extraction in Groningen has taught the lesson that sometimes there are unimagined risks to this. I learned a long time ago in my primary school that earthquakes don't occur in our country. By now, we'll know different. Risks of this kind have direct consequences in a relatively densely populated country such as the Netherlands. For future activities, the Structure Vision Underground will be leading. This should indicate where mining activities can take place in the future and where not, including in view of nature and the environment, the living environment and safe drinking water supply. The draft of this long-awaited structural vision was presented a month ago by the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment, also on behalf of this Minister. It is nice that the Netherlands is able to accurately map the use of the subsurface and is the international leader in this. However, with regard to oil and gas extraction, policy is not restrictive. Of course, it is recognised that, in the light of the necessary energy transition, we need to make ourselves less dependent on fossil fuels, but at the same time it is stressed that it is important to continue and perhaps intensify the extraction of gas from small fields. In addition, our dependence on nationally extracted gas plays in many ways. However, the question remains whether we really need to do everything we can to win this gas, given the safety and acceptance of the population. Not everything that can be technically done should be done. What is this Minister's view on this issue? I would then like to ask about the role of municipalities, their advisory role and the participation of citizens. This subject was also mentioned in the contributions of the CDA and GroenLinks. As we know, citizens' participation was a central theme in the report of the Research Council for Security in response to the consequences of gas extraction in Groningen. The legislative proposal now before us gives an indirect role to municipalities at the stage of applying for a search and extraction permit and increasing involvement of municipalities in the granting of an environmental permit, i.e. when it comes to authorising real activities. The province, and not the municipalities, has a direct advisory role in the direction of the minister. The main argument for this is that at the detection stage it is still unclear in which area exactly extraction activities will take place. This reasoning has a degree of abstraction which we find difficult to follow. The Structure Vision Underground shows quite precisely where, for example, the small gas fields are located. More specifically, the municipality of Woerden already knows that there is a small gas field underneath a local residential area. If that gas field were to be authorised to carry out an investigation with a view to exploitation, the population would be in a state of turmoil. A few years ago we saw what kind of commotion gave a possible CO storage at Barendrecht. As far as my group is concerned, citizens and municipalities must be involved from the outset. The Research Council for Security has said that the citizen's perspective must be taken into account in a structural and recognizable way. We wonder whether this is happening and whether this legislative proposal offers sufficient scope for doing so. In this context, I would like to ask for clarification. This bill states that the issue of a search and extraction licence is "market organisation" instruments. There are no activities yet. An investigative licence does not mean the permission to drill, a mining licence does not authorise the carrying out of concrete mining activities. Isn't reality being proposed too "clean" here? In other places in the legislative proposals before us there is talk of pilot drilling and in the proposal on offshore safety (34041) it is about "installations intended for oil and gas exploration" and further on about "risks" associated with the detection. Can the Minister clarify this? This thus once again affects the issue of local support, support and participation. If it is true that even at the first stage of activity, namely detection, installations, and taking into account risks, the population will soon be at its qui-vive, and rightly so. In that case, an indirect form of citizen participation is insufficient. The municipality should also be able to take a stronger position in the process earlier in order to arrive at a extraction plan. That could be expressed in early consultation. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to this section. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the so-called novellle which regulates the reversal of the burden of proof in the event of damage to buildings in the 'effect area' of gas extraction in the Groningen field. My group sees this as an important gesture towards citizens who have not asked for this extraction, but who are suffering from the collective damage there is. That is why it is right that this "legal presumption of evidence" should be put in place. We support this. May this contribute to restoring citizens' sense of justice and confidence in Groningen!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u23	Mr. Chairman. Imagine living with a suitcase at the bottom of the stairs. Any minute now, there's gonna be another earthquake. You don't know when, you don't know how heavy, but you have to be able to get out of your house as soon as possible. Your house is damaged and unsellable. No one's willing to live in an earthquake zone. Nobody buys a house there. What does that do to a human? Today we are discussing the Mining Act. This was substantially modified by the House of Representatives with the reversal of the burden of proof, an important and useful change. It was no longer up to the victims to prove that they suffered damage due to mining activities, but it is up to the operator to prove that he is not the cause. My party supported that, too. For victims, this was actually a big step. They didn't have to stand up to an almighty NAM to come up with the necessary evidence. It was up to the operator to prove that its activities were not the cause of the injury. However, the minister came up with a novelle. It drastically reduced both the area and the nature of the activities covered by this reversal of the burden of proof. It is now about physical damage to buildings in the area of the Groningenveld and about gas extraction. How do you explain that to the resident who can no longer function through fear and worry? How do I tell this in other mining areas where the substrate is moving and causing damage? How do you say that in Limburg, where there is still damage from coal mining? How do you say that to the people affected by the effects of salt extraction, wastewater injections or CO storage? What I want to say is that there are, of course, many more underground activities with consequences for the subsurface. There is more damage than just physical damage to buildings, and there are more areas in which one suffers from underground activities. The argument put forward by the Minister for this restriction is the frequency of the damage and its similarity. But it seems to me that a post such as goodwill damage can be traced back to pulling away and staying away from customers, while it is evident that gas extraction has led people to try to leave that area. The damage caused by rising mining water in Limburg can be traced back to the extraction of coal from then either to stopping the pumping away of rising water. There is a clear causal link to underground activities. Can the Minister again try to explain to us why only gas extraction from the Groningen field, which has caused physical damage, lends itself to reversing the burden of proof, and why all the other cases have checked? The word "legal inequality" insists on it. Let the Minister prove that this is not the case. I would also like the Minister to answer the question of how this alleged frequency and similarity relate to the contours. Why are frequentity and similarity in itself insufficient reason when the cause has been made plausible? In this question I am strengthened by the fact that many similar damage occurs outside the contours. It must also hurt the minister to see a group of people pay the price for our wealth. I come now to the question of what the reversal of the burden of proof has brought about for the Groningen people. Because one thing is not solved yet: the way the NAM deals with people. It's a big company with a long life, a battery of lawyers and a pile of money that people have to take up. In the event of a claim for damages, for example after a canny-damaged collision, two insurance companies work it out together. That's not so bad. But the fact is that the NAM is really in everything and involved. People experience this as very intimidating and you shouldn't do that when the relationships between them are screwed up. They complain that everything is settled in one week and that in the next week the NAM will put a line through it. The problem here is that the NAM has the responsibility, while the public direction leaves something to be desired. Now people face the NAM. We arm them with all kinds of legal means, but people who don't see the forest through the trees don't make much of a difference. By organizing the audience by taking out the interested NAM, you have more democratic control and more confidence. That can and depends on political will, even VNO-NCW claims in the North. My question to the Minister is what he thinks of that. I am very willing to make a proposal to that effect. I've already tasted some support in this Chamber. My proposal will deal with the independence of the Centre for Safe Living. Mr Pijlman just referred to the report of the University of Groningen which appeared yesterday. I read that, too. The conclusions in that report don't lie. Unrest and distrust have increased. The number of earthquakes has increased since 2012. There is still damage, while for a long time it was denied that mining was the cause of this and gas extraction was increased. There was a lack of clarity about the number of houses that needed to be strengthened and strengthened. Finally, complaints about the settlement of damages continue to be sustained. Maybe that's the most important thing. I do express myself very gently when I say that this doesn't create confidence. Residents suffer damage and want it solved. They don't want to be put under pressure by whoever's responsible for the damage. They don't want to get bogged down in endless discussions. The longer the damage recovery takes, the greater the discontent and resistance against gas extraction and thus against the government. Fortunately, the report also comes with solutions, intended as input for the social debate. It shows that there are other ways in which the damages can be organised and describes the setting up of a fund. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to discuss this with the Groningers. Now I'm going to make the crossing to Limburg. Over the past few weeks, the media has shown us that the damage in Limburg is not minor and will continue. At least the mining water is expected to rise by 2025. As a result, the bottom is raised with tearing houses. There is also talk of pollution from substances, including asbestos, which have been used underground for many years. The Minister reports he's investigating the problems. Last week I saw a number of pieces in the Limburg media, but I can imagine that the Minister can take us with him in the results of these investigations. As far as the SP is concerned, there will be a mine damage fund to which former mining operators will also have to contribute. How does the Minister feel about this? We must prevent the Limburgers from getting involved in many years of proceedings. A thorny point in this is also the limitation period. The mines closed in 1974. With a limitation period of 30 years, it would be too late to claim damages. In 1994 people stopped pumping upcoming water, 22 years ago, a period which falls within the limitation period. I know that agreements have been made on the monitoring of water and soil and on the rehabilitation of the areas. The costs of this are mainly borne by the Empire and the Province. How do we deal with the residents? At the beginning of my speech, I highlighted safety. People have fear and are looking for someone who controls and stands up for their safety. The Minister states that he has a number of instruments to ensure that security. He may refuse a search or extraction permit, but does he actually do that? Residents come in the rifle and even the drinking water companies act as activists. That's what you do especially when you don't trust your interests to be sufficiently weighed. Not for nothing was this a hard point for the Security Research Council. He argued that the Minister should record that he will intervene in order to remove a certain fear. Now the minister seems to take the operator's side and move only when residents or politicians force him to do so. How does the Minister work on strengthening the relationship of trust? Is he going to exclude mining activities in areas relevant to the supply of drinking water? For example, does he give the drinking water companies confidence and an independent advisory role? You can't pick a bald chicken. If there's no money, you can't have it, even if you still have so much right to it. In the written round I asked questions about departing or failing operators. The Minister came up with a good answer: the guarantee fund. If damage occurs and the person to whom it has to be recovered has disappeared, that fund will be used up. I only wonder whether this fund is sufficiently well-stocked and whether it is being supplemented, i.e.: can a victim stand in front of an empty greenhouse? Does this also apply to the reverse of the burden of proof if there is damage in the area where it is involved? And what about the statute of limitations? Looking at the struggle for the statute of limitations in the mining damage in Limburg, it would be very difficult if it were observed. I plead for an everlasting duty. Can we be sure that we do not rely on statute of limitations if victims also report damage after 30 years? There has been a lot of discussion about the amount of gas we should and can win. In the opinion of the SP, security must be paramount. You won't get more gas than you can safely get out of the ground. But the minister records the security of supply as an interest. I get that he's trying to stop you from buying something that you can get out of the ground yourself, but you don't want to do that if you're taking risks with that? Surely the security of supply can never be an argument to keep gas production irresponsiblely high? Nor should there be any economic interest such as state revenue? The question also remains how much gas you need to win for that security of supply. According to State surveillance of the Mines, that would be 12 billion cubs, but according to the Minister, 24 billion cubs are needed. In the Lower House, the Minister said that we should also supply the Belgians and the Germans with gas, because their infrastructure is suitable for our low-caloric gas. But no one saw those contracts. Can the Minister send us a letter on that? Is he also going to start to save gas in his well-known way, so quickly, by making sure that we need less of it, for example by building gas-free, by accelerating the reduction of the nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek, which means that we need less 6 to 7 cubic metres of Groningen gas, and also, of course, by doing thorough research into what is the real security of supply? After all, we need less gas every year than we thought, without taking actual measures. I have named the greatest angels the SP sees in this law. We believe that people who are affected by what we have always called the general interest, i.e. by activities in the soil, whether for coal, natural gas, salt extraction or CO storage, should be generously catered for. This may be the last big law this minister leads past both chambers. After 15 March, he is no longer available for the Binnenhof. We didn't always agree, but if you have this minister on your hand, you have a very strong player. His commitment to, for example, wind at sea deserves a big plume. He now has the opportunity to leave a final statement in the form of a law that does justice to people who have been suffering from various mining activities for years. I ask him to reconsider what he wants to leave behind and, as always, look forward to his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u24	Madam President. Oil and gas extraction, and therefore a large part of the Mining Act, are literally remnants of times that pass and of the old fossil economy. The extraction and exploitation of oil and gas is at increasing risk, mainly because fossil fuels are running out and because it is becoming increasingly crowded in our earth's stock cellars. It is becoming increasingly difficult to bring fuels to the surface in a cost-effective way. Moreover, more and more soil competition is taking place, according to the need to establish a Structural Vision Underground in order to coordinate all activities. The extraction of raw materials is becoming increasingly harmful to humans, nature and climate. Wind, solar and tidal energy have the future. That's what we need to bet on. The greatest challenge for our generation is to keep the Earth alive. We are the first generation to be faced with the limits of what the Earth has to offer and the last generation to be able to contain the damage of today's fossil policy. That is why we need laws such as those before us today to test the viability of the earth, the safety of citizens, the preservation of clean drinking water and other of those important values. And that is what my group has done. The amendment to the Mining Act leads to increased safety requirements for mining activities at sea and land and to the reversal of the burden of proof for physical damage caused by mining in the Groningen Field. Due to the fact that the Cabinet has also made the recommendations of the Security Research Council into a safety and direction bill, security is better guaranteed. By adopting amendments, energy producers should better underpin their plans for the extraction of oil and gas. My group welcomes that. Our colleagues Ouwehand, Wassenberg and Vos from the House of Representatives have worked hard to achieve the reversal of the burden of proof in the event of damage caused by mining works. This novelle is a great step forward for the Groningen who are in a sneaking process of destroying everything that is dear and dear to them. It is a beginning of justice, although it does not cure or forget chess home syndrome. For a long time, the safety and well-being of the inhabitants of Groningen has hardly been a factor of importance in policy. There is physical damage to buildings and impairment of emotional well-being due to constant stress and tension. Gas extraction leaves deep tracks. Although it is an exception to the rule, my group thinks that the reversal of the burden of proof is only logical, because the NAM, which causes the damage, has left many people in the cold for years. With the novelle, the duped Groninger's lingering issues can be spared. My group is very pleased about this. However, the original amendment by Ouwehand and Vos has been reduced to only physical damage to buildings and to works in the Groningenveld. Doesn't this demarcation lead to legal inequality? And does the Minister see any possibility, as is happening in Germany, of extending the evidence suspicions to damage within the area of impact of mining activities throughout the Netherlands? The Groningers also suffer a lot of immaterial damage. This is evident from the case brought by 127 people in the quake area last month. However, the NAM has no intention of compensating for this intangible damage. What additional possibilities does the Minister see for helping these people? In my group's view, the only structural solution to prevent more damage is to continue to turn off the gas tap. That is why we need to speed up energy transition and protect natural areas from mining activities. For a legislative change following the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, with all its consequences for people and nature, it is a huge missed chance that natural values will hardly be protected from mining activities with this change of law. The Minister has repeatedly said that the assessment of environmental and nature impacts is really possible when assessing the environmental permit or the mining permit. There could only be an overall assessment of these criteria. However, Article 7a of the Bill of Amendment to the Mining Act, after amendment, makes it fortunate that in the Wadden Islands and in the Natura 2000 area of the North Sea Coastal Zone, environmental permits are no longer granted for the placement of new mining works. That is a very concrete exclusion. The Animal Party considers that mining activities should by definition have no place in or under vulnerable, unique and indispensable natural areas. The risks of this deterioration are inconceivable. If nature is to be left alone somewhere, it is in these internationally protected natural areas. My group would therefore have liked the amendment of the Mining Act to also exclude the granting of search and win licences for mining activities when they take place in areas with a Natura 2000 status or a world heritage status. Previously, the Minister indicated that the upcoming Structural Vision Underground could provide a framework for excluding certain areas for mining activities. The approach procedure is currently under way. Can the Minister indicate whether the government has chosen to exclude mining activities in certain natural areas? If so, which natural areas are these? From the existing mining works on the Wadden Islands and in the Natura 2000 area of the North Sea coastal zone, drilling for oil and gas is still possible. The test drilling envisaged by Engie can also be carried out because an environmental permit has been granted. North of the Wadden, foam drilling underneath the area is also possible. Mining activities do not belong in, but also not among vulnerable, unique and indispensable natural areas. What are the possibilities for the Minister to phase out these existing and planned drillings? And why hasn't the Minister chosen to rule out the extraction in and around Natura 2000 sites and natural areas with UNESCO status by law? Nature should not be surrounded by drilling installations. Just outside the protection regime, the risks to nature reserves are so great that we cannot afford them if we realize that affording is not just about money, but above all about everything that is worth more than that. Can the Minister propose to exclude drilling under Natura 2000 and World Heritage sites? If the Minister does not come up with a proposal, my group will come up with a proposal. Fossil fuels, such as our Groninger gas, the rust of our welfare state, must be left in the ground as much as possible. That is essential to stop global warming. If we leave our gas in the ground, we don't have to solve all the additional problems. We will have to reduce gas extraction and make work of energy saving and a non-fossil economy. We should not use fossil energy, but take real steps in the field of wind, tidal and solar energy. That must be an absolute priority. I would like to hear from the Minister how he intends to give that a new impetus and how he is going to ensure that the State reduces the revenue from the Groningen gas. Whoever puts his head in the sand today grinds his teeth tomorrow. I look forward with interest to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u25	Mr. Chairman. Gas extraction is resisting everywhere and is beginning to do so more and more now that it is clear how far-reaching the consequences can be. A quiet bottom drop can be absorbed with considerable investment in mainly water management. Cracks in homes can be repaired, as long as the house itself remains solid and reliable. And the increasingly loud call of the gas-supplying regions to see some of the returns themselves could well be met, although this has not been done so far or hardly. In addition to some employment generated by the field activities and at the headquarters of the Gasunie and in addition to the, indeed very useful, Wadden Fund, there is very little of the revenue from gas extraction in the north. It is not surprising that this is the result of the feeling of 'but the burden is not the desired'. But now, after we have known since the 1990s that gas extraction, at least in Groningen, also causes earthquakes, it has suddenly become clear since the crash of 2012 that these earthquakes not only tear, but also give rise to very concrete feelings of unsafe living and, for example, damage to very difficult to restore cultural heritage. Now, of course, the discontent has escalated rapidly. What to do? There is a great deal to be done in Groningen about damage recovery, prevention and image restoration. The latter is perhaps the hardest! It is clear that the Netherlands cannot shut down gas extraction from one moment to the next. This Minister is very committed to achieving the transition to a sustainable energy supply, I would like to make that clear, but his plans for the Groningen gas are no more than a reduction in extraction to 24 billion cubic metres. That's twice as much as it should be to put an end to larger earthquakes. No wonder the Council of State has to reconsider this choice. Because such a choice has serious consequences for what needs to be done to strengthen homes and buildings. In a spacious area, everything that stands has to be strengthened in order to become earthquake-proof. It is estimated that the National Coordinator Groningen is responsible for at least 22,000 buildings. That costs billions and it also takes a lot of time. How does the Minister see that? Would it not be wiser to reduce extraction to 12 billion cubic metres and then have a much more limited task of reinforcement? Or should we try to go back to 12 billion kuub in the long run and then hope that no major accidents happen? Reinforcing a 13th-century Romanesque church, what would happen to it anyway? Meanwhile, the damage recovery as such is well arranged on paper, with the Centre Secure Living, with the involvement of the arbitrator earthquake damage and with the National Coordinator Groningen if it becomes really complicated. But it is easy to block the actual process. There is a feeling that a lot of money is being spent to get out of commitments and too little in direct damage recovery. The reversal of the burden of proof should make it easier to obtain recognition as a disabled person, but whether it really leads to the recognition and reimbursement of damage earlier and more easily is only the question. Problems may arise about the demarcation of the area in which the reversal applies. The question of whether the nature of the damage does give rise to the presumption of evidence may give rise to a difference of opinion. Finally, the extent of the damage and compensation, as it is now, remains, of course, the issue at stake. And there is a strong feeling that it is the role of the NAM as responsible for damage and damage handling, which always leads to the search for recognition of damage and for the determination of damage amounts. This makes it especially a viscous process that makes a normal person despondent. How does the Minister see the influence of NAM in the course of the trials and how does he explain that feeling of despondent poaching? By the way, the reversal applies only to physical damage. This does not apply to loss of earnings, image damage, psychological damage and also to loss of property value. However, it is likely that there will be a great deal of psychological damage directly related to the earthquakes. Of course, most of it will never lead to any kind of compensation. Determination of such damage and its cause is of course also difficult, but the problem is no less real for many people. It is also clear that the properties in the earthquake area are falling in value and are difficult to sell. It has been suggested, however, that the NAM or possibly the State should be prepared to buy all properties from which an owner wishes to buy at pre-earthquake prices, fix them up for his own account and then put them back on the market. This could solve a problem that people face. Is the Minister prepared to choose such a solution? Of course, that costs money, but otherwise it costs the residents in the area money and they have not asked for it either. I do not have much to say about the concrete legislative proposals before us. The implementation of the EU directive is, of course, necessary. There would be something to say about giving provinces more than just the right to advise on the granting of search and extraction permits, but I can also understand the Minister who wants to keep the decisive vote a little further from those who are very directly involved. And in limiting the reversal of the burden of proof to the Groningerveld, the central objection is, of course, that in many places, not by earthquakes, but by soil decline and, for example, by lowering groundwater levels, there is a lot of damage, and a reversal of the burden of proof could also be helpful. That will not be a reason to vote against the bill, but it must be a reason to deal with the damage carefully and with the innocent injured. I think it is important to realise that, in most cases, although companies are responsible and are therefore liable for risk, public authorities have always authorised the actions from which the risks arise. I therefore assume that, behind the direct liability of the mining company, the licensing authority must always feel moral and possibly material liability. It is quite clear that in the case of the situation in Limburg, more colleagues have referred to it as "where there is no longer a responsible company." Then the government is the one who has to replace it on the basis of its responsibility for the fact that mining has ever been possible. Does the Minister agree with me and, in the case of Limburg, is there no hesitation in doing so? Two motions have recently been adopted in the States of Groningen, which I would like to draw attention to. The motion for a resolution of 15 December last states that it must be made clear in what time the reinforcement operation can be completed and also that, if it takes too long, it must have consequences for the quantities to be won. I mentioned the same point at the beginning of my story. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. The other motion dates back to 9 November and states that a substantial natural gas fund should be set up for the benefit of the Province of Groningen and its inhabitants. In fact, that is the question I have already asked, and I have heard many times before, to allow a much wider proportion of the profits to be paid in the mining areas. In the case of Groningen, this question is of course becoming even more urgent now that not only the normal, expected nuisance, but a much heavier burden to bear appears to arise from material and intangible damage, uncertainty and insecurity with all the consequences associated with it. Here too, I would like a response from the Minister. Isn't it time to do more work on this than just turn off a 5G test field? I'd like to wait for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u26	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA stands for a safe and open society, even today. This means that security, control and trust are essential values to which we review government policy. The same applies to the Groningen dossier which we are discussing today. We are aware of the important contribution made to the economic development of the Netherlands over the last 50 years by the gas revenues of a total of EUR 265 billion. Until 2014, it failed to pay sufficient attention to the safety importance and compensation for the social and personal damage experienced in Groningen. In recent years, the House of Representatives has had a very intense exchange of views with the government on the problems of damage caused by the years of gas extraction and various measures have been taken to recognise the lack of safety, the feelings of uncertainty and the lack of control experienced by the Groningers and therefore to provide resources for the restoration and improvement of the living environment and to contribute to a sustainable future. The question is whether today as the First Chamber we can further strengthen the basis for trust between Groningers and The Hague politics. The novelle concerning the reverse burden of proof which contains the core of the Provenance of Gas extraction Act Groningen has been accepted unanimously by the House of Representatives on the basis of amendment. We too would like to support this result and hope that this will indeed contribute to a faster and more satisfactory handling of damages proceedings. With this presumption of evidence, a change in liability in the Netherlands is achieved, which will undoubtedly lead to the renewal of case law and, we hope, to more certainty. This approach takes into account the opinions of the Council of State on the limitations of this reverse burden of proof in relation to the Groninger Field. Physical damage is at the heart of this, not yet intangible damage. And this is topical because there are still cases under the courts at the moment. This will certainly give rise to further debate and also, we hope, an integrated approach to the negative damage, material and intangible, which is at issue here. During the debate, the Minister abandoned his previous intention to establish an "effect area," inter alia because there was no sufficient scientific basis to justify this. Does the Minister believe that, given the current knowledge and the intention to develop a long-term knowledge programme, such an area of impact can be determined over a number of years? And, we ask him, is this option also part of the task of the TCBB? The current situation with regard to the settlement of claims is still very much under development. This applies to the number of notifications in the autumn of some 75,000 of which some 60 000 already have the financial size of more than 400 million and the arrangements, the governance, of the award of damages. Despite the efforts of the Centre Secure Living, the National Coordinator Groningen, the damage protocols, the Independent Arbiters, the window mining damage at the RVO, etc., the complaints about the manner in which damage inspectors act and procedures are not air-based. The Independent Councilman Gaswinning, Mr Klaassen, also made an explicit reference to this in his six-month communication of 24 October. He found a structural lack of confidence among the Groningers in the performance of the CVW and the NAM. In our written questions, we have called for clarity regarding the role of the National Coordinator Groningen in relation to the settlement of damages. The government replied in the further reply to similar questions from the House of Representatives that "the Minister would shortly come forward with proposals to improve the public direction on the handling of damage and the reinforcement notice and to strengthen the position of the NCG." Today, 20 December, we have to note that the Minister has apparently still not responded to these questions, although it has been promised that the cabinet will discuss them this year. Can the Minister clarify and answer the question today to what extent he is going to give the NCG perseverance over the CVW and the NAM in the damages settlement? Depending on the answer, we are considering tabling a motion on this subject. With regard to the revision of the gas building and the state's position in relation to operators, the Minister also undertook to propose improvements. These will, we read, have no other positioning effect for the state inspection, the SodM, vis-à-vis the Ministry of EZ. In answering the question whether it is not obvious to transform the SodM into a ZBO, the Minister refers to information from the Council of State. It stresses that similar supervisory institutions have been transformed into ZBO because this was requested under European law or that the government itself acts as a market participant. Given the opaque position of Energy Management Netherlands, for 100% a subsidiary of the State and for 40% shareholder in GasTerra within the so-called gas building, we wonder whether this exemption position also applies here and that, in line with the proposals made by the Research Council for Security in spring 2015, this gives rise to the involvement of the inspection position in the review that the Minister is currently considering. Does the Minister wish to give his views on the necessary further separation of responsibilities of the government as a licence holder, the competent authority for the extraction plan, the client/supervisor through the state inspection and as the owner of shareholder positions within the gas building? In what way will he ensure a better balance between security interests, gas extraction and financial interests? The PvdA sees the energy transition as one of the biggest challenges of the 21st century, especially in Groningen, where over the past 50 years, the benefits and burdens of the fossil economy have been so marked. It is a good thing that, in the recovery and reinforcement exercise in the region, there is not only investment in compensation, but also in the future. The 2017 budget of the Ministry of EZ shows that, in addition to the 1.1 billion made available by the NAM, the Empire has made available some 334 million from the revenue from gas revenues on various topics. Provinces and municipalities also put some tens of millions into a new economic perspective. The governance agreement "Trust in Recovery, Restoration in Trust" runs until mid-2018. Extension is not guaranteed. For the time being, despite the good foundation laid by the Meijer Committee and this governance agreement, we are lacking a long-term perspective. An agreement system that, in addition to the focus on safety and viability, can support the energy transition and the new economic carriers in the region and contributes to sustainable employment growth. Can the Minister indicate how he makes use of the need for a long-term perspective of Rijk and region in his approach, in consultation with the various partners in the region? And is he willing to table with the region in spring 2017 and make proposals to the Groningers and the States General? The members of the PvdA Group are looking forward to answering the questions raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Verheijen. I'm gonna press the mood bell so everyone knows there's a maiden speech coming. I give the floor to Mrs Klip-Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u28	Madam President. A maiden speech traditionally also has a personal element. This means that I will choose a slightly different approach from previous speakers. Madam President. It is undoubtedly a privilege to act in this Chamber together with 74 fellow chamber members in the coming years. The fact that my first action concerns the three legislative proposals before us makes that even more special. In recent years, I have been more or less closely involved in this subject from different administrative positions, for example as a deputy, but also as a member of the Mining Council. The first time I had to deal with mining legislation was in a Greek lemon orchard, more specifically in the backyard of the apartment that we had rented as a family on the island of Zakynthos in the summer of 2005. As a fresh deputy in the province of Drenthe, I was consulted during this holiday by a more than well-introduced and expert provincial official about a rather sudden intention for us by the then Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Brinkhorst. This ruler wanted to clean up all sorts of supposedly loose legal ends at different laws shortly after the summer recess through the tried and tested means of a so-called sweeping law. In this case, it concerned, inter alia, the fact that the mining legislation provided provinces with responsibility for the granting of some above-ground permits in respect of mining installations. Logically, given the already existing provincial responsibilities in the areas of spatial planning, water and the environment. The cabinet at the time thought that was completely different. The said lemon orchard turned out to be the only place where mobile contact was possible. The flat cover of tattoos provided diving instructor of our youngest son got the grim fax from the diving school talking and it also managed to wake up the Interprovincial Consultation. As a majority, we agreed that this was not a good proposal. The said law of sweeping was simply passed by both chambers after the summer. But here too it turned out to have a disadvantage. The province of Drenthe decided to develop a vision of the subsurface itself. Not because it still had some authority, but in order at least to be able to continue the conversation with the Empire with knowledge of the facts and with well-founded arguments. The main points were the interaction between different underground interventions and the relationship between upper and subsurface. In summary: 3D thinking about spatial design. In fact even 4D, including the time factor, because optimum use of the underground possibilities also benefits from a logical order of action. In addition, there was a growing awareness that you can never reverse intervention in the subsurface and its consequences. The first motto was: No wild west in our subsurface. Other provinces followed. In addition, a terra agenda was developed in collaboration between governments and all kinds of other organisations for the use of the subsurface with the overarching second motto: Optimum use, but also maximum protection. Both the first and the second adadium embraced the Empire in developing the Structure Vision Underground, baptized Strong for short, which was offered to both Chambers on 11 November. It is a correct abbreviation, because it is indeed a strong document. Strong strives to strike a balance between protection and use; between protection of our groundwater for the supply of drinking water, now and in the future, and use of the subsurface for the extraction of minerals, but also for the extraction of hot and very hot water, thus geothermal, and the possible storage of substances. It is clear that the subsurface also plays an important role in the transition to a sustainable energy supply. Where the National Environment Vision (NOVI) will guide the design of our surface space under a new environmental law, Strong is the compass for safe, sustainable and efficient use of the subsurface. We may come to this Chamber to discuss Strong later. This is my bridge to the three legislative proposals before us. The mining legislation was clearly in need of an update. Through these three legislative proposals and a detailed process in the House of Representatives, this has been implemented. In these proposals, the VVD Group recognises the government's commitment to link efficiency to safety and sustainability in the use of our underground space. But there is a balance to be struck in more areas. Security, of course always first, versus security of supply, versus the undisputed financial interests of our common treasury. I am not even talking about the role of natural gas in the transition to renewable energy supplies. The relationship with Strong is established and all recommendations of the Research Council for Security of January 2015 have been taken over. The position of State surveillance on the Mines has been strengthened, the importance of security for residents is explicitly and structurally taken into account in the decision-making process, and advice by provinces and now also by municipalities and water boards is better secured. Both in the legislative proposal and in the adjacent regulations, the possible effects on nature and the environment have been identified. In the eyes of the VVD Group, Minister Kamp has listened carefully to the many questions and recommendations within and outside politics in this explosive dossier. We thank him for the more than comprehensive answer in two terms of all our questions. All this is without prejudice to the fact that in the past the Empire has not always looked at our national mining activities with these glasses. This means that we are where we are now with a strong focus on the situation in Groningen, but the situation in Limburg also plays a role in this. A situation which continues to raise concerns among the VVD Group. This leads to some additional questions to the Minister concerning in particular the settlement of claims and the reinforcement notice. Now that I'm the tenth in a row, there's some duplication with previous speakers. The VVD Group shares the Minister's view that improving the handling of damages in Groningen should be sought primarily in the effective improvement of the settlement of damages and not in a legal change in the burden of proof, a reversal of the burden of proof that you, as legislator, should deal with carefully. However, this seems to alleviate the position of the plaintiffs in the Groningen situation. Moreover, this legal presumption of evidence is motivated part of a larger iterative process of direction and decision-making in relation to the settlement of damages. Exceptional situations sometimes require special decisions. However, we do wonder if the Minister can tell us a little more about the forthcoming national counter mining damage that has been mentioned before at the Rijksdienst voor Onderneming Nederland. If there is anything in the Groningen gas file about which many agree, it is that we still know little about the behaviour of soil and subsurface due to induced tremors in such a large gas field under land. In his response of 7 October this year, the Minister discusses the independent knowledge programme to be set up in the Security and Control Bill with a planned input from national and international scientists and experts. When will this knowledge programme be a reality? In the further reply of 17 November this year, the Minister talks about his intention to improve the public direction on the handling of damage and the reinforcement notice and to strengthen the position of the National Coordinator Groningen. In his letter of 12 October this year to the members of the House of Representatives, the Minister also mentioned this intention. The members of the VVD Group can imagine that this could include a larger perseverance power of the National Coordinator Groningen vis-à-vis other governments and the NAM. Mandating or possibly even attributing the minister's powers could be possible scenarios. Another administrative octave higher comes "in place of" in the picture. The members of my group are curious about the Minister's ideas and thoughts on this point. Madam President. From a Greek lemon orchard to the impressive entourage of the conference room of the First Chamber. From a sweeping law that reduced the influence of local authorities to legislation that gives value, among other things, to the advice and influence of local authorities and, in our view, to their inhabitants. And that in over eleven years time with as resultant a maiden speech on a subject not entirely virgin to me. It is nice to be able to make a start in your room in this way. The members of the VVD Group are, of course, curious about the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-2.u29	Mrs Klip, congratulations on your maiden speech. Since 12 June of this year you have been a member of this Chamber. The political career that preceded that began in the city council of Coevorden. In this municipality you were also alderman of well-being, education, art and culture, and sport. In 2005, you joined the Deputy States of Drenthe. In this function, you were in charge of soil and subsurface, water and waterboards, climate and energy. You showed yourself to be a true advocate of provincial authority. When the Minister of Economic Affairs decided in 2005 to remove control of the underground storage from the provinces by means of a sweeping law, you wrote a letter of fire. You have depicted your activities in the lemon orchard on Zakynthos. In particular, I will remember your youngest son's tattooed diving instructor. On other subjects such as excise duty on biodiesel or the use of geothermal energy, you also found the Binnenhof good. It will undoubtedly be a good thing that you have been part of this house for several months and are therefore permanent 'inner court'. The historical and art-historical significance of this environment will also be appreciated professionally, as you are art historians and archaeologist. You graduated from Leiden University in 1980 cum laude. Before you became alderman, you were curator of the North Brabants Museum and filled various administrative and advisory functions in the field of fine arts. Since 1 March 2013 you have been a dike count of the Waterschap Vallei and Veluwe. With your arrival in this Chamber, the number of dikes in our midst has doubled in one blow. The profession dijkgraaf is one of the oldest parts of Dutch political and administrative culture. Many claim that the roots of our consultation culture lie here: by working together and putting aside disputes, we Dutch people have been keeping their feet dry for centuries. That doesn't change the fact that dikes have adapted to modern times. Last month in Trouw you could read how you inspected small locks and watercourses on private grounds and meadows in fluorescent workcoat with tablet in hand. That water safety is vital, this year the Dutch series "If the dikes break" has brought to the attention of the public. The website www.overstroomik.nl has never been visited so often. That is why your Waterscape Valley and Veluwe are working on the longest "rousing dam" in the world. In an interview you indicated that this dam can guarantee water safety in this area for the next 100 years, but that the battle against the water behind the dikes always continues. I see the other dike in our midst looking at the ceiling and thinking: perhaps we should also have a driving dam. You will undoubtedly discuss the importance of water safety in your work for the Chamber. As well as the importance of self-employed, well-functioning waterboards and provinces. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. Before suspending to give my fellow Members the opportunity to congratulate you, may I first ask if one of the Members wishes to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then suspend the debate and suspend the sitting for congratulations and for lunch until 1.30 p.m. As usual, I should like to congratulate you first and then allow the other Members of Parliament.
