ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u1	The same Secretary of State is present at this VAO as the previous one. I call Mrs Keijzer on behalf of the CDA. You have two minutes' speaking time, including the submission of any short and concise motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u2	Mr. Chairman. We held a general discussion on the progress of the right of draw. I was extremely disappointed to hear that the portal built by DSW is not a so-called "open source." There is another motion from the CDA over the market, in which we ask that the new payment system at SVB and the portal be an open source. I'm going to ask you to put that motion to the vote. I find it really indigestible that, from the Vendrik motion and all the motions that were subsequently tabled and adopted, this still does not happen. I have the next motion for a resolution myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a new portal for the pgb is currently being built;]] [[Whereas when this happens, the legal tasks of the SVB will change;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a corresponding legislative amendment so that the law can be amended in time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer, Mr Potters, Mr Leijten, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Voortman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-277]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u3	I have a question about the motion that has been held and which is now being put to the vote. That motion states that the SVB's payment system should also become open source. How am I supposed to see that, looking at the discussion yesterday about the role of the SVB? Does the CDA indicate that the SVB should continue to have an explicit role in the drawing right system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u4	That's a little questioning about the familiar road. The CDA has previously indicated that it is not married to the Social Insurance Bank. You can also ask yourself why, apparently, in all the steps that are being taken, we come out of the Social Insurance Bank every time. Apparently, there's a majority for that. If so, that is a fact, but then I want a system to be created that is open source. People who are listening now may think: what is this about? This is about whether you rely on ICT cowboys. During the general consultation, I mentioned the example of municipalities that are faced at some point with a doubling of the costs they have to pay to ICT companies. We really need to get rid of that; hence my plea and hence the motion. I very much hope that at the moment when a system needs to be built, we are finally going to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u5	It is clear that the CDA will at least keep open the possibility that the SVB will be given a public task. The motion also calls for the open source portal to be built by DSW. The Secretary of State indicated yesterday that you cannot impose that under the procurement rules. Should I interpret the motion in such a way that DSW is called upon to build the portal with open source?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u6	Yeah, if that's Mrs Bergkamp pulling over the line, sure. I find it a bit difficult, but that is sometimes the case in debates in the Chamber. It is then concluded that the CDA keeps the option open that the SVB remains involved. Again, the CDA is not married to the Social Insurance Bank. The Social Insurance Bank is an organisation that has always paid the WAO and child benefit in an excellent way. That's a fact. If you look at what's going on right now, you might ask yourself whether this should be continued and, if so, why. That's important for a while. In general terms, I have talked about the fact that building the portal, most of the tasks of the SVB, is no longer necessary at all. You might wonder if 80 million is well spent money, if there's any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u7	Mr. Chairman. For my group, too, general consultations have been disappointing. I would have liked to have seen more clarity and speed. The agreement is that before 1 March we know more about management. I am sure we will discuss it with this Secretary of State. I would like to table one motion at the moment, because it is important for the further construction of the budget-holders' portal, because this must now be taken forward vigorously. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that DSW and VECOZO, with the agreement of all chain parties, are working on a budget holder portal based on a defined programme of requirements;]] [[noting that there is a single budget holder's portal linking, on the one hand, to the awards made by the providers and, on the other hand, to the actual payments made to the caregivers and to the employment law affairs of the Social Insurance Bank;]] [[Whereas providers have a role to play in determining the legality of the checks to be carried out on the care agreements and the resulting declarations and final actual payments;]] [[Whereas the Budget Holders Portal will only function properly if links and controls have been properly implemented;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that providers and the Social Insurance Bank share, within the limits of privacy law, all the information and documentation necessary to build functionalities and interconnection surfaces in the Budget Holders Portal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Leijten, Mr Voortman, Mr Volp and Mr Bergkamp.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u8	Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but I do feel the need to make things a little more specific as a result of yesterday's general discussion, because I was left a little behind. We can't actually control the new builders, DSW and VECOZO. We hope they build a part of open source, but we can't force it for the whole. That leads to an unclear situation. We have to trust DSW, as it were, on his blue eyes, and I'm worried about that. The wait is actually at the moment when they come up with a good system, but we don't know for sure and it's also hard to check it out. I also feel that it is still a long time before there is clarity about governance. That'll be March 1st. This actually means that it is up to the new cabinet to clarify governance and the new drawing rights system. I'm kind of disappointed about that. This is particularly true of governance. Building a system takes time and needs to be done carefully, but clarity about responsibilities and competences should not take so long. The budget holder shouldn't suffer again. I have another question for the Secretary of State. I'm getting the next signal from the Thomas Houses. Currently, the pgb has a household care component for cooking, shopping and cleaning, but the healthcare office has decided that from 2017 it can only be about cleaning the house. That has a lot of impact. Is this true? What are the consequences? Can the Secretary of State clarify why this is suddenly changing, just before 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u9	Mr. Chairman. I do not have a question for Mrs Bergkamp, but I would like to explain to the Acts that I have signed motions that force the Secretary of State to take action. We were disappointed yesterday that he did not take that action. I note that the Chamber shows more urgency in this VAO than the Secretary of State yesterday in the AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u10	The motion I have just tabled would like to endorse Mrs Keijzer. Can that be arranged along this road?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u11	Yeah, that's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u12	Mr. Chairman. In the motion-Keijzer c.s. in piece No. 277 asks Mrs Keijzer to change the rules if necessary because the tasks will be different. I have already indicated in the debate that I am, of course, prepared to do so. I have two comments to make on this motion. Sign one is: let us realize that once that portal is there, it will take some time until everyone can work through the portal. There will still be people who will continue to deliver on paper. This means that the tasks and powers must also be adequately safeguarded. The second point is that it remains to be seen whether and to what extent the legislation will have to be amended, since the legislation is now formulated in very general terms. The question remains, therefore, which changes are necessary. That is without prejudice to my willingness to do so. With these two comments, I should like to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. Then we have the motion Dik-Faber c.s. in piece No. 278.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u13	I welcome that judgment, but the motion also insists on preparing for that legislative amendment. I have often seen in this dossier that, if one had started earlier, one would not have heard later as an argument that something cannot be done because the law still needs to be changed. That's what this motion says. I assume the Secretary of State read the motion the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u14	I also said in the debate that if the change of tasks would lead to regulatory changes, that change would obviously have to be made. That must be done on time, because it must not be an obstacle if it is necessary. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u15	Nothing prevents Mrs Keijzer from setting a date there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u16	That's not entrapment, but I don't think it's part of the rules of the game either. Of course, I am not dealing with the order of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u17	That's right. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u18	Then we have the motion Dik-Faber c.s. in piece No. 278 in which the parties are called upon to exchange information properly. It is rightly stated in the motion "within the limits of privacy law." I would suggest to Mrs Dik-Faber to add 'and the procurement rules'. Because it's not a tender, there are certain things you should or shouldn't exchange. I would suggest that she add 'and the procurement rules'. If she wants to do that, I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u19	If that's what Mrs. Dik-Faber wants. Given the time, it's the easiest thing to do about the interrupting microphone right now. Then we can process that right away, but I'm not pushing her. You all understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u20	I am happy to amend the motion to that effect. Maybe the Secretary of State can take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u21	The Secretary of State is prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. Maybe one more comment on...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u22	Hold on, hold on, I needed to talk to you. All those present have heard the operative part of the new motion. I see that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u23	The motion-Dik-Faber c.s. (, No ) has been amended to the effect that it has now been signed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Leijten, Mr Voortman, Mr Volp, Mr Bergkamp and Mr Keijzer, and reads: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that DSW and VECOZO, with the agreement of all chain parties, are working on a budget holder portal based on a defined programme of requirements;]] [[noting that there is a single budget holder's portal linking, on the one hand, to the awards made by the providers and, on the other hand, to the actual payments made to the caregivers and to the employment law affairs of the Social Insurance Bank;]] [[Whereas providers have a role to play in determining the legality of the checks to be carried out on the care agreements and the resulting declarations and final actual payments;]] [[Whereas the Budget Holders Portal will only function properly if links and controls have been properly implemented;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that providers and SVB share, within the limits of privacy law and procurement rules, all the information and documentation necessary to build functionalities and interconnection surfaces in the Budget Holders Portal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 278 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u24	Mrs Keijzer explained a motion on open source which is still coming or being amended. I would like to point out to the House that it has already adopted a motion, namely a motion by Mrs Oosenbrug and Mrs Gesthuizen (33326, No. 21), on what rules should be in place if ICT systems are to be built. That seems to me to be a very appropriate motion. This motion, which I am not quite familiar with, therefore seems superfluous to me, and I would therefore advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u25	I know these motions. They're about policy. In that policy, there is always a possibility of not doing so. This motion by Mrs Voortman and me simply states that the new payment system at SVB will become an open source system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u26	Policy has been established, including by this Chamber. The SVB must also adhere to that. That seems to me to be the message, and it has already been set out in another debate, namely that on ICT. So I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u27	It is an adopted motion of the Labour Party and the SP which states that in principle everything the government does is open source. Exactly that "in principle" leaves of course room not to do it. The Secretary of State says there's a better motion, but this is an addition to that motion. That is how I interpret Mrs Keijzer's and Mrs Voortman's motion. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what exactly, if that motion is in line with that, is the objection to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u28	There is no objection in principle. The policy that has been established is that it happens unless. I believe that's the official policy. This means that, in principle, unless there are grounds for not doing so, this must be demonstrated. That is the policy adopted, including by the Chamber. However, there are no fundamental objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u29	One last point, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u30	You can see in practice that there are always reasons why it shouldn't be. I find that so incredibly sad. When Linda Voortman and I filed that motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u31	This is a new debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u32	No. I'd like to point out where that motion came from. When we tabled that motion, the Secretary of State asked if we wanted to arrest him and he said that when building the portal it would be considered whether that could be made open source. So what do we have now? No open source.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u33	What is your question to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u34	Nothing, Mr. Chairman. It's the last day before the recess. It's no different, let's just say. It's a missed opportunity, unless the Chamber supports this motion by majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u35	I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u36	I was just asking the Secretary of State what the fundamental objection is to getting clarity about this. I am glad that he says that there is no objection in principle to the motion. That is why I find it regrettable that the judgment is what the judgment is. That's kind of like a game, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u37	What is your question to the Secretary of State? None, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u38	I'll count to ten, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bergkamp asked whether there was any discussion on the issue of household tasks in relation to the small residential care complexes. I know this issue. It is caused a little by the wording in that one law which has become something different from the transfer where it came from. I am solving this problem and I am happy to announce to the Chamber in January what the solution will be. We're gonna fix this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u39	I assume in January 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u41	Thank you very much, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-43.u42	I propose that we vote on the motions tabled tonight.
