ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u1	Mr. Chairman. We have talked a lot about the budget of Security and Justice during the last budget discussions; that will be no different this time. There are three motions adopted by the opposition. One relates to the police, one to the Public Prosecutor's Office and one to the judiciary. In all three cases, the government is asked to seek additional resources for these matters. All parties agreed to this. For many opposition parties it was even the condition under which they could vote for the 2016 budget of Security and Justice. The opposition was united and could have stopped the budget in the First Chamber, but voted in favour of the budget and thereby gave the cabinet confidence. The cabinet has therefore been given time to look for opportunities. In the motions adopted, the agreement was that the Cabinet would release the necessary resources for Security and Justice in the Spring Paper. It was spring and the Spring note came, but the money didn't come. There was only 49 million for the police, where 134 million is actually needed. Nothing for justice and nothing for the D.A.'s office. The confidence placed by the Chamber on this file in the cabinet is seriously damaged by the failure to carry out the motions. Of course, I hope that we will be able to do things right today, but now the strange thing is that the discussion of the security and justice budget has been brought forward in connection with the planned honeymoon of the Minister for Security and Justice. As a result, the treatment had to take place in the First Chamber a week earlier and, as a result, there had to be a debate and vote in the Second Chamber a week earlier. Unfortunately, VVD and PvdA voted against a joint opposition amendment. I hope that the Minister does not now think: if so, it is in his pocket; the Chamber can now jump high or low, but I am not changing anything about the budget of Security and Justice. The problems are not gone. With the police, which the coalition has previously chosen to cut down 2,000 agents, the problems pile up. As the General Court said, cutting back while you're reorganising is not a good idea. Honestly, you and I could have thought of that, too. Reduce ICT while you want to set up a completely new ICT infrastructure: a bad idea. I've never encountered it in all those years I worked in automation. The cost is always for the benefit. If you have good ICT systems, you can save on that, not the other way around. More importantly, however, you will also have a better equipped police force, which can perform its tasks better and therefore make the country safer. In other words, I want a better equipped police force. We're seeing a lot of stress and uncertainty, and a huge increase in absenteeism. Luckily, we have a coroner who does send signals and thus stands for her people. Well, then your answer to the police isn't "exhaust your reserves," is it? The reserves in the police aren't there in case the cabinet refuses to make money? It wasn't just Chief Akerboom who called the alarm. The boss of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Herman Bolhaar, also did that, precisely because he wants to prevent matters from being left on the shelf at the Public Prosecutor's Office. Finally, the President of the Council also sent out a distress signal for the case-law. It is also his responsibility to safeguard the quality of justice. This includes sending out a signal when it is no longer possible to carry out the increased task package within the existing resources. Justice must also be digitised. This also requires, in the first instance, an investment, which will be paid back later. The problems are well known and we have often talked about them, but it is good that these gentlemen, who watch over the quality of the safety chain, give these signals. Does the Minister agree? It's brave, too. It also happens that senior officials say nothing when they are given an impossible mandate from a minister, with too many tasks and too little money. They don't like to sell no, because the minister doesn't like to hear it. It's not a nice message either. You'd rather be listed as someone with whom anything is possible than as someone who's just being difficult. It is therefore courageous to send a signal. Does the Minister think that's brave? That brings me, of course, to the Minister's recent statement. He said he's a little done with the begging of police and justice. Can the Minister confirm that he said so? Or maybe he was miscited? If he did say so, I would like him to give us the text and explanation. We have not yet discussed these statements with this Minister in the Chamber. Does the Minister regret that he has dismissed these gentlemen, who are just taking their responsibility and sending a signal, as beggars? Did he actually talk to them after that? And did he apologize? Is he willing to do that here? The Minister also said: it is not you calling and we turning. Does this mean that they are not allowed to identify the problems that threaten to arise in connection with a shortage of resources? Or should they not have done so in public? Was it only allowed behind closed doors? The Minister continues: I'm a little done; I'll leave it at that, otherwise I'm going to say a lot more ugly things. Apparently, the anger was great. What's with the anger? Now he can laugh at it, but then he was very angry. It raises the question of how behind the scenes these people have dealt with. Has Minister Van der Steur, for example, spoken to them? I am very keen on this, because I am concerned about the continuity of these organisations and about another point. If these people are taught a lesson by not giving them a year, I ask myself the following. Does the Minister realize that these people are not doing this for themselves, but for the general good? Does he not realize that his words can harm if it is no longer enough for senior officials to sound the alarm bell in public? If the Minister has not been quoted correctly, he may say so, but I am assuming what is in the media. The Minister may contradict that. Then there's clarity. The Minister will have to explain and explain. Maybe he was in a grumpy mood. He may have been miscited, but that is what we hear from him. If it came out a little unhappy, he should be a man and apologize. So much for security and justice. I would now like to talk about something completely different, namely the supplementary posts, or the reservations made by the Minister of Finance to which the Chamber is not allowed to come. My group has already advocated applying the budget law on this very point. The additional item in general amounts to as much as EUR 867 million in 2020. Why is that amount so high? We can't get to it. In reply to the written questions, the Minister says that the Chamber is free to table a motion on the reserved resources in the supplementary post in general. It's a perspective. I am therefore considering tabling a motion calling for the appropriations earmarked in the supplementary item to be used in general to carry out the motions adopted during the discussion of the budget for security and justice. I would also like to make a comment on two cash slides which the Minister has included in the Spring note, namely the advance payment for the student card and the advance payment for the World Bank. This will create room for the 2017 budget by the Minister in these areas. Is this a coincidence? We always hear the story of the cash rhythm. In principle, couldn't that space have been used to solve problems in 2016? I am thinking, among other things, of the acute problems in the care sector, which we will discuss later. The inspection says there's some insecurity in the nursing homes. That is not something we can say we will resolve next year. There's room to solve that problem. Let us therefore do so this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. The message of this Spring note is as far as I am concerned: the Netherlands is doing well. The classic question of whether we are better off than four years ago can be answered for many Dutch people with a convincing yes. The economic crisis is over, and we should be proud of that. This pride is especially true of the Dutch who in recent years have put their own hands on the ground: the mother who went to work, the student who went to study extra though that was sometimes because he couldn't find a job for a while yet, and the zzp'er or the entrepreneur who, despite everything, dared to do it anyway. They deserve all praise; I think we all agree on that. However, the Cabinet and the Chamber were not on their hands either. There have been more reforms than in many previous periods, in the housing market, in the labour market and in the social security and care sectors. Higher education has been prepared for the future. Taxes have finally been reduced this year. It has certainly not been easy for many people, but there are also results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u3	Mr Harbers began with a list of those who have been better off over the past four years. There is a group that does exactly what the VVD asks, namely work, but that work may or may not stay in poverty. That is the group of earners who are dealing with a sick partner or not, so there is no possibility of two earning persons. The slogan of the VVD was always: working is the way out of poverty. What, for example, does Mr Harbers say to the security guard with three children on display at Nieuwsuur? Because he's fallen into poverty while he's working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u4	I say to him that although many people have improved on it, there are still people who do not notice it at the moment. That is, by the way, later in my text, because this remains a task for the years to come. This certainly applies to the gentleman to whom Mrs Schouten refers. I saw the story, too. We really need to do everything we can for people in their position and for those who work as self-employed people. Because here in the Chamber we often pretend that the existence of everyzzp'er is taking place in a kind of ludicrous country where you do not have to pay taxes. However, this story showed the reality of people who need and do not even have enough benefits for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u5	We need to make this concrete, because this is also a bit of a preview of the budget negotiations that will take place in the summer. Mr Harbers points out that we must do something about this. Can we now put butter on the fish and call on the cabinet to ensure, for example, an improvement in purchasing power for the single earners, a substantial increase in purchasing power as far as I am concerned? Do I have Mr Harbers by my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u6	There are two things that are mixed up here. That's classic. On the one hand, there is purchasing power. My group and also the cabinet have said before that we are going to do everything we can to have a budget at Prinsjesdag that will give people a glimpse of their purchasing power, especially those in the provisional figures. I suspect that Mrs Schouten is also getting through the classic political debate about the position of earners and two-earners in the tax system. Last autumn, we also had an intrusive discussion on this issue. I say right away that my party attaches great importance to the movement of the last 30 years with which we have made the tax system increasingly individual. Indeed, the tax system is no longer always based on the assumption that a traditional family is a family of earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u7	That was your second interruption, Mrs Schouten, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was not clear to me that it went in two, so thank you for this opportunity. Mr Harbers' words are a little empty. Because he says he attaches great importance to the fact that workers should not almost fall into poverty while they are just hard at work. But at the same time he says: we are not going to do anything about, for example, the single-earners. What does Mr. Harbers actually say to the security guard at Nieuwsuur about his purchasing power position in..................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u9	Let's look at that on Prince's Day, because then this is really on the agenda. Today we are not talking about purchasing power in 2017. I said that at least this gentleman still benefits from, for example, the self-employed deduction and that we should not get into it. For the rest, at Prinsjesdag we simply have to look closely at the purchasing power of all people, because this applies to more groups, including older people. Furthermore, we need to take a good look at how people who work hard, such as this independent entrepreneur, end up in this position. Are there any arrangements that he himself has left out because he doesn't know about the existence of them? That's what this gentleman himself indicated in the TV broadcast. What do we do to make these people with their own business actually succeed as entrepreneurs? But today it's not about purchasing power in 2017, for the simple reason that I only have wishes, but still don't know where we stand with that purchasing power. Mrs Schouten also knows that this is only about Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u10	This is a very relevant question. If people do not have a job, everything is done in the eyes of the VVD to see how they can get to a job. But this person does exactly what the VVD and by the way all parties here want, namely work. The partner can't work. It is then a political choice that this person with a sick partner and children at home has less money left than his colleague who is a single parent. That leaves hundreds of euros a month extra, while it has one less mouth to feed. The man with a sick partner at home must also incur additional costs. This has nothing to do with individualisation, which has to do with incentives that fit in CPB models that our D66 colleagues are particularly proud of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u11	Would you like to formulate a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u12	Does the VVD consider it justified that this single earner with a partner should have hundreds of euros less than his colleague who is a single parent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u13	Here, too, two things are mixed up. Did I feel sorry for this gentleman? Yeah, but I can't exactly look into his situation. I don't know how he might generate more revenue. Maybe there are obstacles there. There are two types of one-earner. The group with a sick partner and the group that basically chooses it. In that last group, I'm more on the side of D66. We have built a tax system in the Netherlands in which we encourage as many people as possible, regardless of whether their partner is working. I wouldn't want to throw that overboard either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u14	The VVD says here that it wants to do something when the partner is sick and unable to work. That's an individual incentive. Although we do not have to look at every household booklet, it is the tax incentives, such as the income-dependent combination discount, which a single earner is never entitled to, which means that, although you earn just as much, you have less left than your colleague if you are with more people at home. That is the inverse principle of carrying capacity. Does the VVD want that or is the VVD finally willing to do something about this? We have had a bill from the Central Planning Office with nine parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u15	We had this discussion with each other in detail last autumn. We are opting for the current tax system, despite the objections raised by Mr Omtzig from his background. We can continue to discuss this endlessly, but in principle we opt for a system in which workers at least see that they are making progress in relation to those who are receiving benefits. At the time when people work, we are also trying to encourage the highest possible employment rate at individual level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u16	Mr Harbers continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u17	Just the fact that, in the run-up to this Spring and Prince's Day, we can talk about where more money should go and how much, is a sign on the wall. The question has often been the opposite in recent years: where can more money be paid? But there is still a budget deficit next year. We still spend more than we come in. Although for the first time in years too high a budget deficit is no longer our main concern, there are now some other concerns in the budget. It has now become a bit of a battle with reality, a reality in which we have to deal with low inflation, so a big trade-off, with lower gas benefits, which we have all rightly chosen, and with the consequences of an uncertain world. The latter is reflected, for example, in progressively higher defence expenditure, but also in the costs of receiving asylum seekers. Even if the economy is growing faster than in recent years, it is still growing less rapidly than budgetary wishes and expectations. We are not seeing the astronomical growth rates of ten years and more ago for the time being. The uncertainty that may arise from the settlement of the Brexit and the slowdown in China will certainly not help. When I look at it against that background, I think it's handsome what the Cabinet put in the spring note. As during the crisis itself, it is a bit exudes that it is a matter of keeping a cool head. The fact that there is some money now does not mean that there can be money everywhere, because there are huge setbacks: the EUR 500 million exchange rate, the rent surcharge, a setback on the student and student estimates and a huge increase in the cost of asylum and migration. The latter proves once again that a rich country like the Netherlands cannot accept unlimited people. In this respect, I agree with the Minister's remark last year: if this continues, we will blow up the welfare state in these influx figures. Where care and social security have always been disappointing up to a few years ago, these are precisely the issues that have been shown by windfalls, thanks to the successful policy of the VWS Minister to control the cost of care and the lower costs of unemployment benefits. Once again, we have not received a post-tax but a refund from the European Union and the dividends of state participations are increasing on balance. It was undoubtedly all in all steps and measures to get it back together and to add 188 million euros for the police in 2016 anyway. It was fitting and measuring, but at least a little more money will be available for security. I would very much welcome the fact that the cabinet is repeating that piece of music even more strongly in the 2017 budget, a budget for which the circumstances will not suddenly be easier than they are now. I've noticed something else too. Here, in the Hague arena, I see over the last few months that politicians who do not need to cut back all want money. That goes without saying that we have not put things in order for nothing and that we cannot suddenly open up the financial locks again. The real problem is therefore not, or not only, a discussion about money. Although the economy is growing more rapidly than in the last few years, the deficit has decreased considerably and unemployment is declining, it is not yet felt by all inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u18	I am surprised to hear Mr Harbers say that he wants to see a stronger commitment to security and justice next year. What's that supposed to mean? Can he be specific by adding numbers or saying what this money should be spent on? Why doesn't he do it all this year? Why did he drop a hole for a year first? Surely he also knew that this meant that people had to leave and that it might mean that other people would have to be trained later? We have seen the problems at the Dutch Forensic Institute, an example of loss of knowledge due to austerity. Why drop a hole first and then invest again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u19	Because it's not true. There has been no gap, because even this year more money has been allocated to the police. I would also have liked more money to have gone, but that is without prejudice to the fact that more money is available this year. If the expectations for next year come true, I hope there will be more than just added this year. We need to get as much money as possible, but how it works out we'll see it on Prince's Day. There are also some uncertainties up until then, especially internationally. Let it be clear that we are also trying here, just as we have been doing with the Defense Department for a few years, to get money every year on a step-by-step basis. It is not true that a gap has fallen, because this year too money has been added.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u20	It is true, because that is exactly what is indicated. We also know that a lot of savings have been made on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the justice system. Now it is said by these authorities that more is needed. For example, the police want 134 million more. The opposition has tabled an amendment to that effect, but Mr Harbers has voted against it, even though he says he is in favour of it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u21	It was a bit of a strange amendment. Technically, it was covered, but in fact, the parties who submitted this amendment obtained coverage from the Spring Note without answering the question to which less should be spent. That's weird. When parties here argue for more money for Security and Justice, I expect them to give a concrete indication of what they want to do less. The handsome thing about this cabinet is that, despite all the windfalls, it has managed to cover everything on balance and, at the same time, to free up some more money for security. I think that Mr Merkies is doing by simply saying that I should have voted in favour of that amendment, because that amendment simply removed a piece of cover from the Spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u22	Mr Harbers continued his speech. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u23	Mr President, I was addressed personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u24	Mr. Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u25	It would be "gratuit." I think it's just gratuitous playing the ball back. We'll give it a shot. The cabinet does not make an attempt, although it was requested, also by your party. Your party has also voted in favour of these motions. Then you say opposition, solve it. Actually, the cabinet should have solved this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u26	Would you like to speak through the chairman? I give Mr Harbers the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u27	The cabinet is already solving it, and I hope that it will be further resolved in the 2017 budget. I stand by my words: if you want it to be different, you must also come up with proposals here in the Chamber that state where the money is to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u28	I see another interruption by Mr Grashoff. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u29	However, there is a part of the choice that Mr Harbers does not mention. The current year together results in a smaller balance deficit than originally planned, and that deficit was already smaller than that agreed at European level. So the issue is whether you ultimately consider this and other priorities, investment in society, to be more economically sensible. If that's what you think, the money will be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u30	It's one, what was it, 0.1% lower balance deficit. Mr Grashoff would know that, if you put it in the spring note, this falls into the category of rounding differences. Soon at the Millions note, it could be 0.1% more. As long as you're short, and we still do, I think it's really unwise to spend that money right back in the middle of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u31	It amounts to about 700 million. In itself, it is a logical question that you should at least ask yourself whether it is all more sensible to focus policy on investment, if only in view of a number of existing bottlenecks or the employment created by it, or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u32	Is that wiser, was asked. No, it's not wise to do that. Mr. Chairman. I was telling you that there are indeed still people who haven't felt the progress. That is what I said just now in the interrupting debate with Mrs Schouten. Too many people are still wondering whether the government is doing enough to help people get a job and whether care, specifically care for the elderly, is good enough. In order to do something about it, we need something very different. I'll mention three things. Firstly, to help entrepreneurs create jobs, namely by putting a stable foundation under the economy as a government, so that this is again a starting point for entrepreneurs to invest. Today, for example, the report of the Study Group on Sustainable Growth, the initiative taken last year by colleague Nijboer and me to look further at what the Netherlands can use in the coming years to grow further. It can be imagined that we do not consider all the proposals of the many dozens that are being made to be sensible. After years of turbulent measures, now that the dust has been lifted, it is sometimes useful that people can build on the certainty they have today. However, there are also a lot of interesting points in between, which can increase the knowledge base of the Netherlands and increase the feeling that people keep their knowledge in order, so that they will also have a job in ten, twenty years, as well as many other things that are really good to explore further in the coming years. Secondly, to promote that we can also pay for the current level of care in the Netherlands in future generations. Well, we managed to do that. Public finances are sustainable again. Thirdly, increasing the budget for security, for V and J and for Defence, in steps; we have already talked about it. This not only helps to combat crime in the streets but also to fight the terrorists further away. But let's be clear, those shouldn't be uncovered promises. Those who, under the uncertainty of the Brexit after years of austerity, immediately make all kinds of uncovered promises to the Netherlands, are irresponsible. In the VVD we prefer to solve problems in a way that really helps the Netherlands. Having said that, I would like to mention a small problem in the budget of OCW. In the annex to the Spring Note, we found that the Minister of OCW intends to finance part of the rescue of ROC Leiden next year from funds intended for quality benefits. The rescue of this megalomaniac rock could not count on our approval, but it really goes too far for the VVD to be paid out of this budget line, which we value very much and which is important for the quality of all the MBOs in the country. It involves a shift of 8 million in resources in 2017. An amendment to the current supplementary budget is therefore not an option. However, I would like to hear how the cabinet views this. In fact, I already know the answer to my question, because the intention was not for nothing in the annex to the Spring Note. So I have a motion before me for the second term, not to reduce the cost of quality in 2017 and to finance the total amount for the rescue of ROC Leiden as agreed with the Chamber from the overall macro budget for MBO institutions. Rounding up. The Netherlands is doing well. A lot of people are getting better off than they were four years ago. However, it remains our task to ensure that those who do not yet know and who are wondering whether there are enough jobs to be created and whether care for the elderly is good will also notice it. I think we can help on that last subject by making room in this Chamber in time for the debate on nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u33	That debate is taking considerably longer!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u34	Well, set a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u35	Mr. Chairman. The Spring paper shows an image that we've been seeing for a long time. The economy is growing, though less hard than desired, and there are windfalls and setbacks. However, there are still some accounting items that my group has some doubts about. There is a windfall of 0.9 billion at the in=outline; that means "we'll fill that in sometime." How are we going to achieve that? Some of the windfalls are occasional; I mention the large settlement proceeds. How are we going to provide structural cover with that? Can the government confirm, also in view of the developments in the neighbouring countries, that we do have large settlement proceeds, but that we do not use too much immunity from prosecution there? It is striking that the countries surrounding us all know how to prosecute the Liborbankers and we book the settlement proceeds. Same goes for SBM. So yes to settlements, but if big things have gone wrong, then it must also have its course of action. As regards the comments on the Ministry of Security and Justice, I agree with the colleague of the SP. Actually, I only have one question. Does the government really think that in the supplementary budgets on V and J we will not again have the need to implement the opposition's plan? Does the Minister of Finance consider the budget as it is, a best estimate of what is needed? Or are we dealing here with a political compromise between two parties that do not yet want to admit things? We have seen what that means for the AIVD, where too much savings were made first, finally the austerity was reversed and there is now a destructive report on the damage that that has done to that service. Are we running the same risk in parts of the budget, i.e. the NFI budget? Then I come to talk about the Brexit. Now that it's going to take place, is there any update on the estimate that it's going to cost 10 billion? How should we describe the Prime Minister's remark, which said: well, those London bankers can come here; I have a lot of ways to get around that 20% bonus ceiling? Is that what he said on behalf of the Minister of Finance? Of course, I say it a little more sly than the Prime Minister said... There are other risks to the economy. Growth slows down to 1.8%. This is partly, of course, caused by lower gas yields, but doesn't the government see any need to make real progress in the reform of the labour market, for example by really tackling the SME wage payment in case of illness? We believe that the Italian banking sector is the greatest risk at the moment. The Italian banks guarantee 150 billion. I would like to know what risks the Netherlands is running as a result of what is happening in Italy. The Italian economy is many times larger than the Greek economy, and so is our links with that country. Does this minister, who is very concerned about this dossier, have any reason to believe that the Italian banks have been properly admitted to the Banking Union, that there will be a bail-in and that the proper rules will be followed? Another risk is the ECB's policy. The ten-year government loan rate has fallen below 0%, i.e. you have to constantly pay money to the Minister of Finance. This means that a lot of problems will be hidden in the coming period. In southern Europe we will see that, because there is a 0% interest rate loan, but other bad loans are not being cleaned up either. How long can the ECB continue to pursue this policy in the eyes of this minister? DNB now incurs an additional risk supply of 4 billion and is being built over a number of years. Is this 4 billion sufficient to cover all risks, with a high degree of probability? Or will this risk supply be increased by billions at the same time by all the risks incurred by the Dutch banks as a result of the Italian banking crisis and the 0% interest rate policy, with huge purchases of QE, quantitative easing? I come to a specific problem from the Ministry of Finance: the Tax Administration. This will require an additional EUR 230 million. Many people have made use of the voluntary departure scheme. There is a structural need for an additional 80 million in the Tax Office, and that is also urgently needed. But those many millions before the departure scheme lead to another problem. Which people have left and which people do we have left? Are the people who have left a precise reflection or have we lost exactly the wrong people, which is why we are going to have serious problems with enforcement, for example? I would like a response to that. The CDA continues to question the budget reserve for renewable energy, which now contains more than 1 billion. The Minister of EZ sent the Chamber a long letter last week in which he wrote about all the billions going to renewable energy, but it did not become clearer to us. How does the Finance Minister indicate the management of the literally tens of billions that go towards making our energy supply more sustainable? Do we have a handle on that? What happens to projects that are available but are not being implemented? This was not clarified in the letter from Minister Kamp. Is the Minister prepared to provide the Chamber with an annual clear overview of what funds used for the SDE+ scheme are legally required and for which destination has not yet been identified? In this way, the Chamber can better exercise its controlling role. The NVWA, the Dutch Food and War Authority, is also on the budget of EZ. There is no internal order. Companies have to pay more contributions for, for example, inspections and in certain cases depart abroad. We find that very undesirable. As long as the NVWA does not have its business in order, these burdens should not end up with the business community. That is why, together with Mr Geurts, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Dik-Faber, I have tabled the amendment on this subject. 5................................................................................................................................................................................... My colleague from the VVD pretended to be getting better with Defence, but we still see a military force in a worrying state. The General Court has also confirmed this. There is an enormous low level of preparedness. It is worrying that the promised break in the trend of the decline in defence expenditure compared with GDP does not come off the ground. The answer to the actual questions shows that expenditure fell from 1.13% to 1.10% of GDP. Is it true that this is the lowest level in 100 years? When's that gonna go up? The budget's tight. Earlier, Minister Hennis had to adjust down the funds promised to the 2016 budget for reservists. These cuts are slowing down the recovery of the armed forces in what my colleague called 'an uncertain international world'. Once again, investments are lower than estimated. EUR 200 million of cash-sliding investments will be transferred to 2019, 2020 and 2021. Another delay and a much too low investment ratio! What is the Minister of Finance going to do to maintain investment in defence and thus to maintain preparedness? I now look briefly ahead to the 2017 Tax Plan. According to the Minister and the Secretary of State, the abolition of the pension in its own right results in 2 billion. That is very much in the short term, because future revenues are being brought forward. Is that right? If not, what does the government intend to do with the 2 billion windfall? What is the government's plan for next year's tax plan? Charge relief will not be so in place, but that does not mean that load relief is not necessary. Just think of pensioners who see their purchasing power decline year after year and who now have concerns about a report by a number of officials. The same applies to the single-earners, who decline year after year compared to two-earners with the same family income. I have just given the example of a earner who has hundreds of euros less than the fellow Member who deserves exactly the same, but is single parent. I am not saying that the latter category does not deserve additional support, but if you have to feed an extra mouth and have exactly the same income, it is very strange that your net income is hundreds of euros lower. Does the government consider that desirable when that second person cannot work and sits involuntarily at home? What else does that have to do with the principle of carrying capacity? Is the government prepared and able to map where this principle of capacity is not applied in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u36	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u37	Yes. In the case I mentioned, it is very bad, because if the sole earner's partner dies, the net income rises. That can't have anything to do with capacity in a social state. Does the Minister share that this is undesirable? Is he willing to map this? What does he want to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u38	Mr. Chairman. Choosing sustainable growth is the title of the report presented by the Study Group on Sustainable Growth this morning. I want to start with that today. Then, of course, I am going to say something about the Spring paper, because that is also the title of this debate. Then I have two technical questions. I start with Choosing for sustainable growth. At the request of the PvdA and the VVD, this report came with broad support from the Chamber, in addition to the report of the Study Group on Budget Space, which appeared last Friday. It has traditionally included austerity proposals. Fortunately, the focus has shifted somewhat, because public finances are healthy again, the welfare state has been brought forward and there is room for investment again. Now there are also proposals to make investments that will strengthen the economy in the future. Tax options received the most attention in the media today, but the report contains many options and proposals to improve schools and childcare, to invest in science and a sustainable economy. The PvdA Group is very pleased with these proposals, because they are very useful and necessary to strengthen the economy in the future and, above all, to further boost employment, which remains the biggest problem of our time. Proposals have also been made, not so much by this study group, but in recent times, to set up an investment bank to enable and improve investment by SMEs, where lending is still stalling, to make schools more sustainable, to invest in housing isolation, to make houses more sustainable and to support housing corporations. Such an investment bank has the warm interest and support of the PvdA. We are in favour of this. How does the Cabinet view that advice? It's bulky. It also means a lot institutionally. The Waterschapbank and the Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten should be included. The PvdA Group feels very strongly about this, precisely to drive investment forward in the shorter term. Here too, the government has an important role to play. It's not just from the market. I come to the Spring paper and highlight a number of points, for example the additional resources for reception in the region around Syria. The Brexit has kept us very busy in recent times, but the refugee problem is Europe's biggest problem when it comes to humanitarian crises. The cabinet also contributes to this internationally. The PvdA Group has argued in favour of this, because it is a good thing. The same applies to the reception of asylum seekers and people who have fled war. For that money was found in this Spring note. The PvdA Group would then like to emphasise the non-continuance of planned cuts in the rent surcharge. It's big money: 400 million threatened to hang over the market, but it's not going to happen. That's good for the purchasing power of tenants. It is also good for the purchasing power of older people, who often rent a house. The PvdA Group is happy with that. During the last few years, I have said, together with Mrs Schouten, that the budget must be out of the question. Fortunately, the cabinet has already decided to clarify, so that the sword of Damocles does not hang over the market. Another difficult cut, that of 400 million on care and nursing homes, is also off the table. All that was found within this spring note. You will not fail to point out to me that as a Groninger, who lives in the midst of the earthquake problem, I stress that it is a good thing that 280 million has been earmarked for Groningen, for strengthening and sustaining houses, for increasing value and for rebuilding schools, some schools are being merged so that you can look back at the future. This shows that the cabinet takes seriously the problems in Groningen, which are still very serious and are far from being resolved, in this Spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u39	It is indeed a good thing that money has been provided for Groningen, including for the increase in value, but I would like to say a few words about the gas decision. I doubted it for a moment, but as a Groninger, Mr Nijboer knows all about it. The gas decision now implies that the cap is set at 24 billion m, but for a period of five years. We have to have the ambition to bring that down, don't we? Then we should not say to the Groningen people and to Mr Nijboer himself that we do not have the ambition to reduce this for five years. Does Mr Nijboer agree with me that we should have that ambition and that we should not commit it for five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u40	Oh, yeah. Today the Mining Act was on the agenda and last week the gas debate. My colleague, Mr Vos, has proposed that we look next year and the following year to see if we can go further down. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, there is only one direction for gas extraction, namely down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u41	So we can pass that on to the cabinet and now to the Minister of Finance, so that he already takes that into account in the 2017 budget. What else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u42	For 2017, it's at 24. I believe that the Group of the European People's Party supports this. That must be in the budget for next year. After that, of course, it's up to the new cabinet. The PvdA Group is in favour of further reductions in gas drilling. At least, to the extent permitted by the security of supply. Of course, we all have to be able to function.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u43	Mr Nijboer's plea for a return to investment is something I am very concerned about, especially when these investments are aimed at making the economy more sustainable. We still have a lot to do there, because we had to find out a while ago that the decoupling of economic growth and CO emissions had not yet been achieved. It has to be done. Does Mr Nijboer agree with me that, if we find that with each other and look at the whole budget picture at the moment in this Spring paper, we are doing more wisely not to wait a day with a firmer investment policy than the present one in this cabinet? Shouldn't we just say that we really need to put an extra shovel on top of it, even in the course of this year, in a number of areas? It is about creating jobs and making the economy more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u44	Yes. I also put forward proposals for this today. I asked the cabinet about an investment bank. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to wait. In fact, I hope the cabinet gets on with it soon. I tabled a motion with Mr Harbers on equal opportunities in education and asked the government to come back to the budget. I therefore expect proposals from the cabinet to increase these opportunities. That's one of the biggest themes of our time. Give everyone a chance to get everything on their own. Does it matter what kind of education your parents have for the school you end up in, or can everyone make a difference? This has been the subject of major debates. A motion has been tabled by Mr Harbers and myself. The cabinet should come back to that in the budget. The PvdA therefore constantly makes proposals for investment, both in sustainability and in improving the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u45	My question was about the current year 2016. We are talking about whether or not we should take a further step on the investment agenda during the current year 2016. I have to say that on the whole issue of Security and Justice there was an opportunity for an open goal to begin with, but there are a number more. If we had to get rid of the gas quickly, Mr. Nijboer just mentioned the security of supply, we could now start to ensure that those homes are quickly isolated and not wait until 2017. Then you also have some results before the end of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u46	With regard to the investment bank, I do not say to the cabinet: go and look at it quietly and do not start, even now. I do not understand Mr Grashoff's problem, because I am calling for urgency and speed. We just agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u47	Please continue your speech, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u48	I come to another point, but I still see Mr Merkies standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u49	It is clear that the PvdA and the VVD were both allowed to present something that will be discussed next year. The VVD has done so in the area of safety, where of course it has gone badly wrong for the VVD, and the PvdA in the area of care, which has been greatly cut back in recent years. It's nice that that's been leaked. The Spring note, however, is about this year. It's not like there's gonna be 400 million next year. It just doesn't come off, let's face it. Can Mr Nijboer also say what we want for this year? We have heard today about this alarming report that says that safety is at stake, that people cannot live safely in nursing homes. Can he see how that can be dealt with acutely?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u50	Extra money has been allocated to childcare for this year and extra money has been allocated to toddler care. There is a burden relief of 5 billion for people with low and middle incomes. There will be a low income advantage for employers in order to employ as many employees as possible. Mr Merkies pretends that last year the cabinet did not submit any proposals to the budget, with the support of coalition groups. Much has been done to stimulate employment and we are also seeing results. Purchasing power has been under pressure for years and is going up a lot this year. Expenditure on unemployment is forecast to be 600 million less than six months ago. That's really huge, Mr Merkies. I'm trying to make more proposals. But he's acting like nothing's happening this year. That's totally incorrect, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u51	I notice that the microphone is being shut off all the time. Yeah, sorry, this is just not an answer. Mr Nijboer answers a completely different question. My question was about the nursing homes, about that alarming report. We know that more than 60,000 places have disappeared since 2012. So it's very alarming. The only thing that's gonna happen next year is that it's not gonna go off again. Then Mr Nijboer has a whole story about how we are tackling employment. That is also very interesting, but that was not my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u52	The question was whether investment was being made and what was being done. I answered that, but Mr Merkies seems to be in a bit of different debates: judicial debates last week, a care debate tonight. But I'm glad the $400 million cut in nursing homes isn't going to happen. It's been decided for the summer. That is a good thing. I also expect warm support from the SP for that. I can't imagine that's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u53	Mr Nijboer continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u54	I come to two more technical points, but they are not entirely insignificant. Mr Koolmees is already warm; I come now to the point that we raised together last year. Those are the dividend estimates. Last year, these 600 million euros were not so bad. This year it is foreseen that they are already EUR 700 million. That's good, because you can use it as cover for setbacks or other things, but for the Chamber, I think it's okay if those estimates are as close to reality as possible. Then the Chamber can also exercise its budget rights optimally. I ask the Minister to improve those estimates. We did that last year, but the difference has been greater than smaller: it was 600 million; it is now 700 million. The second question is whether these dividend estimates cannot be made simply per holding. The argument that was used last year, namely that it would be business confidential data, does not convince me in advance, because it simply results in annual reports. The percentage of the dividend flowing to the State shall also be public. So it's always public after a year. Then why such an estimate should be so terribly mysterious is not quite clear to me. I would like to give the Minister an opportunity to answer that. It would be a good thing, even for the Court's budget law, if we had more precise and better estimates of this. The second point concerns the estimation of gas extraction revenues. You'd say you have less revenue because the volume and the price go down. It was 12 billion a few years ago. Now 2 billion is foreseen. But even if you add up that the winnings in Groningen and the prices have fallen significantly, it is even less than you would expect. How is that possible? What's the cause of that? How can it be so far apart? It goes from 12 billion to 2 billion, but it's not like the prices are nothing at all. The total extraction from the Groningerveld has been significantly reduced, but there is also winning in the North Sea. Those are my two technical questions about the Spring Note. Finally. Many difficult measures have been taken in recent years, but you can see that the government's policy is paying off. Employment is rising. Unemployment is falling, although more investment is needed. Perhaps the most important thing is that the welfare state has been brought back to its time. In the future, too, I say to Mr Merkies, the Netherlands can continue to pay for care, education and pensions. That took a lot. That has required disciplined fiscal policy. That's fed. This also applies to this Spring paper. As a Social Democrat, I am proud to be able to build on this in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u55	Mr. Chairman. The handling of the Spring Paper has been more exciting in recent years. That is a good sign, because the budget is getting in order. Slowly, hopefully, we will come to the end of the crisis. Now it seems that developments outside the Netherlands are now more relevant than what is happening in our country. That's why I want to talk about the Brexit first. Then I have a number of questions, including a number of technical questions, to Mr Nijboer, about the Spring Note. The Brexit clearly shows how quickly uncertainty does its job. While in England one political pyromaniac lighted its heels, the credit status was immediately downgraded, the pound fell to the lowest point in 30 years and there is a threat of recession in the United Kingdom. That's a reality check. Johnson and Farage had a big mouth but no plan, no idea. It's like the PVV. On this point, I would have expected a split interruption from Mr Van Dijck, but unfortunately there is no such interruption. The Minister of Finance gives alternate signals about the impact of the Brexit. Last week at RTL Z he said that the effect is uncertain and that he can't predict it, but in last Saturday's NRC he says he expects it to be okay. An analysis of the Central Planning Bureau expects a structural 0.9% to 2% growth loss due to a Brexit. We're really gonna feel that. I ask the Minister to outline the impact of the Brexit on the Dutch economy and the budget. What does this also mean for the additional money allegedly earmarked for the 2017 budget? In that interview with RTL Z, the minister said that "that money is in pencil and you can still get rid of it." On the question of whether that money is at stake, he says in NRC: it doesn't have to be, we can also make savings on something else entirely. I'd like to hear what the point is. Is the 500 million-dollar cut on long-term care definitely off the table? And can the Minister guarantee that extra money will go to Security and Justice and that no cuts will be made? I know the minister a little bit, so he's gonna say we're gonna see that in the budget on Princess Day. But if the minister can give a preview in the media, I'm sure he can do it in the Chamber. That brings me to the content of the Spring Note. I'll start with the asylum expenses. The spring note provides substantial additional funding for the asylum chain. That is necessary, because the shelter must be paid for. However, my group lacks investment in refugees. A large part of the refugees will, whether we like it or not, live in the Netherlands for a long time. D66 wants these people to be able to participate quickly and integrate quickly so that they can earn their own bread quickly and are not dependent on a benefit. Children who have had to leave their homeland should be able to go straight to school. D66 tabled an amendment last week to offer refugees language lessons quickly. Unfortunately, that was lost and not supported by the Labour Party. However, we would like to give the Labour Party a chance to do something for the refugee children. My colleague Van Meenen has tabled an amendment to provide direct education for all refugee children. It is mortally sinful when children have left that house and her, also have to turn their thumbs in an azc. Kids should be in school to learn. Doesn't this minister agree with D66? Last week, coverage of the D66 amendments was discouraged, as the asylum reserve would not be intended for this purpose. The essence of an amendment seems to me to be that the Chamber wants to use money differently than the cabinet intended. However, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that, following this amendment, the asylum reserve is still much higher than at the beginning of 2015, while the cabinet expects the large peak of influx to be precisely in 2015 and 2016. In other words, can the Minister argue the size of the asylum reserve? I am also quite willing to look at alternative cover; so the Minister knows me. I am thinking, for example, of the money that the cabinet is now using to pay the World Bank and the student card in advance. While the cabinet sees absolutely no financial space to invest in refugees, it seems that this year there is as much as 400 million available to pay in advance. Why does money have to be reserved this year to pay next year's bills? Next year there will be extra space, if we have to believe the newspapers. Fortunately, I am not cynical, otherwise I would almost think that the cabinet would free up money to spend on good and fun things for the people in the election year. But I'm sure the Minister can explain to me what's really going on. I could also cover the amendment from a higher dividend on state participations. Mr Nijboer was just talking about that. Because year after year, dividends are hundreds of million higher than estimated. Last year Mr Nijboer and I drew attention to this, but according to the Minister, the estimate was extremely prudent and realistic. I very much agree with "practical" but realism was rather lacking. In fact, if the annual yield is more than 50% higher than estimated, I find that really doubtful. We are talking about a great deal of money, hundreds of millions, 700 million this year, about which the Chamber cannot say anything beforehand. For example, how does the Minister feel about reviewing the dividend estimate and informing the House of Representatives on Princess Day? I also find Mr Nijboer's suggestion to look at the structure of the dividend estimate interesting, but I would like a response from the Minister of Finance. Finally, I could also cover the amendment by simply placing it outside the framework, because apparently the budgetary rules can be stretched so far as possible. If I understand the Spring Paper correctly, the extra money for the earthquake problem in Groningen will be placed outside the framework. I think it's a good spending. The Minister is looking very frowning; I am looking forward to his answer in a moment. Again: I think it is a good use. But why does this money go beyond the expenditure framework? Yes, gas benefits are outside this framework, but these are not lower benefits. These are higher expenditures, and they are part of the expenditure framework, aren't they? I'd like to get a response from the Minister of Finance. Finally, like Mr Nijboer, I would like to ask the Minister how he deals with the opinion on the Dutch financial institution for economic development. The analysis shows that by pooling existing institutions, the BNG, the NWB Bank and the existing instruments in the EZ budget, more money and expertise can be made available to invest more efficiently. That sounds almost too good to be true, but maybe it isn't. The cabinet reacted enthusiastically through Minister Kamp and this Minister. According to the report, such an organisation, such an investment institution, could be on track as early as 2017. My question is: will the cabinet be working on this and, for example, will there be a concrete proposal this autumn? I like to get a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u56	Mr. Chairman. The debate on this Spring paper is not really just about the Dutch budget, because we are having this debate in a situation of great uncertainty in Europe. It is, of course, about the Brexit and its consequences, which are highly uncertain. It is something else again: a summer that is not about a grexit, but about a possible Brexit. The CPB has already outlined in a number of scenarios what impact a Brexit could have on the Dutch budget. I ask the Minister of Finance: what is the government now counting on? The Brexit seems to be becoming a reality after all. What does that mean for the 2017 budget? In the Spring paper, the cabinet tackles a few challenges. That's good. At the same time, the cabinet also leaves a lot of challenges to be faced. I am thinking here of the growing problem of the working poor; I mentioned it just now in Mr Harbers' intervention. I am thinking of the plumber with three children, who has to take care of his chronically ill wife and therefore lives below the poverty line. I am thinking of the inhabitants of Groningen, who are still waiting for their homes to be strengthened or for their homes not to be sold. I'm thinking of the children of low-educated parents who don't get the opportunities they deserve at school. I am thinking of the elderly, who see their pensions reduced. I am thinking of those who are wondering whether the quality of care in our country is still guaranteed. I am thinking of the people who are rightly concerned about whether we are investing enough in safety in the Netherlands. This last point was discussed at length last week. Yesterday it was also debated in the First Chamber and a number of motions were tabled on it. I agree with the questions that have already been raised by colleagues on the budget for security and justice. This uncertain time calls for a policy that provides people with an insight into a hopeful future, in which people who have been unemployed for a long time can see a job again, in which we can guarantee a good old age for everyone, in which we actually work on energy transition and in which we have an eye for the talents of people, but also look to those who need our help, close and far away. This calls for fundamental choices, including with regard to the future of our children. I come now to my first point: the extraction of gas in Groningen. I have just mentioned this in Mr Nijboer's contribution. In the next five years, the government intends to record gas extraction at 24 billion cubic metres. With this the cabinet rules over his grave. Since when do we set a ceiling for five years? With this level, the risk of earthquakes is still high. Therefore, we should not opt for a standstill until 2022, but for a sustainable plan with step-by-step phasing-out. I am pleased to hear that the PvdA apparently feels the same way. I would like to know what that means for the adoption or non-approval of the gas decision in September. We're gonna follow that very closely. My second point concerns the working poor, especially the single-earners. The adage of this cabinet was always: working is the way out of poverty. For the single-earners, work has almost become the road to poverty. And then this cabinet will pay an extra 200 million euros for the richest two-earers! Since when is the PvdA going to spend 200 million on childcare allowances and not look at how it can make work more rewarding for the single-earners, who are now very badly billed? I therefore ask the cabinet to pay extra attention to the single-earners in the 2017 budget, so that this group does not become even poorer already working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u57	I was very directly addressed by Mrs Schouten. I personally appreciate the plea of the Christian parties, but also of other parties, to give more attention to the earners. That's a political choice. The PvdA Group strongly supports your independence. This is also based on an emancipation ideal. I do not understand why Mrs Schouten is so opposed to spending more on child care payments, combining work, life and caring for your children and making that more possible. I am very much in favour of that. I would have expected the Christian Union group, which is also very child-friendly, to support such proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u58	Perhaps we should take a look at where most of that amount is falling. That's with the families that grab him around $120,000 a year. Is that the honest sharing that the PvdA always favors? For the PvdA, the childcare allowance seems to be the way to ensure that people go to work. I have just mentioned the examples where this is not an option at all, because one of the partners is chronically ill. If you're gonna take that road, why are you gonna subsidise the highest incomes the most? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u59	Mrs Schouten is the Social Affairs spokesman and she knows all about the childcare allowance. She also knows that if you have a low income and earn around the minimum wage, you really do not pay euros per hour for childcare. It's very income-dependent. The child care allowance applies: the more you earn, the more you pay. In total, more money has become available for the childcare allowance. Everyone benefits from this, both low and high incomes. The PvdA Group strongly supports this. It is about working, caring, better combining and keeping childcare more affordable for families, who also do not always have it easy. I expected more support from the Christian Union for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u60	I'm gonna bounce the ball back. I really do not understand why the Labour Party is now opting for families whose two partners can work and who are also going to look at the additional meeting of the even higher income groups, while there is a group of families where it is often not possible for both partners to work, for example because one of them is ill, and which, because of all the fiscal measures, is likely to become almost poor. I know the PvdA as a party that always stood up for the weakest in society. I do not see why it is so much more social to subsidise families who are not particularly under fashion than to accommodate people who are almost falling into decline when they go to work. I really don't get it. I hope that the cabinet will grasp that point and ensure that work actually becomes more rewarding for a group that is often already moving towards poverty. The Nibud says this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u61	Mrs Schouten continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u62	My third point is the reception of refugees and the seizure of the ODA budget. My group is pleased that coverage has been found for 2016 to cover the significantly higher costs for the first-year reception of asylum seekers. It is important that we continue to be able to fulfil our obligations in this respect. However, it has led to the use at present of one fifth of the budget intended for the poorest in the world to receive migrants in the Netherlands. The Netherlands has thus become the largest recipient of its own development aid budget. This year, the higher costs will again be partly covered by GNI space in 2016-2020. This is a mortgage on future economic growth and it takes all the rack from the OS budget up to 2020. Earlier, together with the PvdA, we have already pointed the finger at the pollution of the ODA budget through the Slob/Samsom motion. Is the cabinet prepared to come up with a structural solution that will not be at the expense of aid to the poorest? I come to my fourth point, education. The Chamber adopted the motion by Mr Nijboer and Mr Harbers on equal opportunities for education for every child. I very much agree with that and to take that into account in the budget. We see the division in education especially among the people who work with their hands. We would therefore like to invest in vocational education. There must be a revaluation for craftsmanship, practical skills and workers who make a real contribution to our economy. It is important to focus on the practical skills in the po, vo, and on the MBOs, VMBs and practical schools and to ensure that technical training is properly funded. As far as we are concerned, everyone must be given the right to receive equal amounts of education, as we have already proposed with the training grant in the learning rights debate. I hope that the coalition will recognise this and ask the cabinet to pay extra attention to craftsmanship and vocational education in 2017, if we look at the funding of education and combat the division. Finally, I would like to ask a few questions about the cash slides. The cabinet has chosen to highlight expenditure for 2017, the student card and the contribution to the World Bank. On the other hand, there is a cash drawer for the Defence Department: spending of 350 million euros for 2016 and 2017 is now being shifted to 2019 and beyond. The reason for this is that they can then be better adapted to the investment rhythm there is. We are merely discussing the fact that there is not enough budget for the defence sector and what happens then? We're gonna apply cash slides to the Defense Department and move it back. The Court of Auditors has said for a reason that we are not even capable of guarding our own national borders. I completely miss the logic of this cash drawer. What's the real reason for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u63	Mr. Chairman. We're out of the economic recession this year. We have had eight quarters of economic growth and in 2015 GDP was for the first time back at its pre-recession level, i.e. before 2008. In the meantime, however, unemployment is about twice as high as at the time when we are comparing GDP. So something has become distorted over the years. CO emissions fell a little in the first quarter of this year after they had grown year-round in 2015. I have raised this before. There is no decoupling between economic growth and CO emissions. That should be the case and even very quickly, otherwise more sustainable growth is really a farce. Meanwhile, plans to invest more in 2017 are circulating. My party believes that this is wise when there is room, and that it is about where exactly that is happening. This will undoubtedly be dealt with in the budget, and we will undoubtedly be in favour of some of those signals. But what we hear nothing about in those plans or rumors is whether something extra will be done in the area of CO reduction, with those objectives that we do not achieve and that decoupling that is not going to happen. We are very concerned about this, very concerned about it. Translated to this year, after all, we are discussing the Spring note and not yet the budget... would like to start GroenLinks now with targeted investment. Can we do that? Yeah, you can. There was no specific reason to lower the EMU balance more than planned. From that space you have to ask yourself whether it is not wiser to invest it with wisdom rather than to collect on the level of public debt. We still have a number of issues that are so urgent, and an issue about employment that is so slow, that we have so far seen few results. I can hardly imagine that the cabinet would not want to make a great deal of effort in this final phase of its existence. In that sense, some decisions surprise me greatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u64	In a debate with financial spokesmen, it is also a question of pursuing a bit of a sound budgetary policy. Does Mr Grashoff really want to spend 700 million extra on the basis of 0.1%, which is really a round-off difference, and if it falls short of 0.1% in the autumn, to cut back 1.5 billion? What kind of budgetary policy does Mr Grashoff actually stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u65	I'm trying to make it clear that you shouldn't be looking into this in the ultra-short term right now. It would be wise for the Labour Party to share that as well. You have to look at the things that are needed now, and what the investments that are needed now are. With the same argument, I can say to Mr Nijboer: if you invest now in 2016, by the end of 2016 you could see that something has actually improved in the area of employment, and that you also see this in reduced expenditure on benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u66	Yeah, but I really understood that we need to spend more money now. Mr Grashoff says that there is room in relation to the balance path that was planned. But if that is the basis for GroenLinks to conduct budgetary policy, then every time you look at those figures of the link with GDP, which Mr Grashoff is not so much a fan of, as I understand it. You can't run a proper fiscal policy, can you? So I expect GroenLinks to be covered if she makes proposals to invest perhaps hundreds of millions more, or if there is a sound budgetary policy behind it. GroenLinks shouldn't say: it's 0.1% now and it might be disappointing again later, and we can now applaud the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u67	I would have expected this reaction, because it is a question of numbers that is now considered very important. A world of creativity is being applied with cash slides. Cash-sliding goes one way and the other, and ultimately results in a result that we must continue to pursue as a straitjacket with each other. However, we should take a closer look at the objectives we set. I would like to enter into a discussion with Mr Nijboer on how we can invest wisely so that we can really bring closer to sustainable growth, which he himself wants. How can we do this without compromising the long-term sustainability of public finances, but precisely promoting them? That should be the discussion, rather than the premise that we should not spend 700 million now. We have come up with the budgetary rule that this is absolutely not done, and if you want to do so, you will be nailed to the wall because this would be bad budgetary policy. That is precisely the straitjacket in which we should not be sitting. We should look at what vision we have of this country's development in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u68	Thank you. Mr Grashoff continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u69	I'm going into the refugees now. It is good that funding has been found, but we have great difficulty with the way it is done, which puts enormous pressure on the ODA budget. Mrs Schouten has already made a number of comments on this subject, and I very much agree with her. It is also strange that the BOR, the Bureau of Research and National Expenditure, reports to us that it is difficult for the House of Representatives to get a complete picture of the asylum-related budgets, to see in conjunction where shifts are taking place and to see how unforeseen setbacks are foreseen in the estimation of coverage. Basically, we don't really know. That's weird. I urge the Minister of Finance to give us a very clear overview in the short term of how these amounts are linked and what is charged with what, because we are not getting out completely. I think we should have this insight. As far as we are concerned, a number of issues should be dealt with in a shorter period than 2017. From the letter of the Secretary of State and from the rumor circuit we have understood that from 2017 onwards, the second year of education for refugee children is coming. This means that we are at risk of a yo-yo policy: a loss of funding in the course of 2016 and a recovery of funding from 2017. I don't think that's wise. It could mean that facilities would be demolished during the year, and then rebuilt. This would, in our view, be soluble. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. Moreover, our amendment is very much in parallel with the D66 amendment, but we will agree on the way in which we are going to do it. That could be excellent. In terms of investment in refugees, we are doing a number of things wrong. I've said that before. We are also going to have to do this because that is our moral duty to do so, but we are really not investing enough in helping these people get into training and the labour market. I see how people end up in a swamp when they want to know what their degree is worth, how things are put together and what training they should be doing. How does this training relate to the level of language they should be able to master? There is really not enough attention to that. If we do not start now, we are too late, because every six months or year we start later, more talent is wasted. This means, in the long term, a larger group that will have to continue to use our social services rather than stand on its own feet and be part of our society's support. The Paris climate agreement also means that we cannot wait a day to implement it. We're really behind our ambitions. We need to start now, we need to get to work now and use the resources available better and more effectively. Here and there there are resources on the shelf that are simply not spent because they have been allocated to projects that are then not taken off the ground. We will have to make a move on this point. As far as we are concerned, extra investment could be made. It is very good for the sustainability of our economy, for our long-term prosperity and for combating the carbon bubble that, despite all the comments made by Mr Nijboer, we are taking these steps now and investing the money very wisely. In the area of security and justice, there is a bit of the same issue. The problem could simply have been solved through the opposition-wide motion. Then we could have started with the necessary steps in the story of Security and Justice, for which there may be money next year. That's a missed opportunity. In fact, I would still like to support Mr Merkies' appeal: we should not miss that opportunity, but just do it now. In any case, we have tabled amendments on three points to raise the level of investment. This cannot be done by cutting back on a careful fiscal policy, but rather by focusing on sustainability, strengthening and sustainable growth. That should be the challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u70	Thank you very much, colleagues. I suggest we suspend this debate for dinner break. Then we will continue with the first term of office. I see a nod in agreement, so that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u71	We need the government's first-term response. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u72	Mr. Chairman. I know that you are in a hurry, at least there is another debate tonight. Mr Omtzigt has already said that this is going to take much longer than this debate. I'll try to answer quickly and quickly. The economy is doing well, but there are absolute risks. These risks come mostly from outside. I refer to the development of world trade and Brexit, which has been the subject of various questions. That's the context. Mr Omtzigt has expressed his concerns. He sees a slowdown in growth. He asked whether the government saw no need to reform further. Sure, we're not ready on that point. We will continue to take action. There is certainly still potential to further increase growth in the Netherlands. In the report of the Study Group on Sustainable Growth you will find interesting proposals for your own use and election programmes. The answer is: yes, it is possible to do it better, in response to threats from outside. Then the expectations around the Brexit. Should we be very gloomy or a little more optimistic about that? The costs for the Netherlands in the short term are uncertain. The CPB also did not say anything about short-term costs. It has said that the long-term effects could be EUR 10 billion. However, there are a lot of uncertainties about this. However, the effects on the United Kingdom are immediately visible. The devaluation of the pound is historically very large. Shifts in investment funds are taking place. Exchange rates, especially in some sectors, have had a strong impact. We see all these movements with great care. The effects are therefore first and foremost for the United Kingdom, and they are tangible. What does it mean for companies? Are UK companies moving towards Europe? Are they coming to the Netherlands? That's perfectly conceivable. The first cases of interest are there, so to speak. We are, of course, in favour of companies that come to us with questions, but we are not going to change the policy for that. The same applies to remuneration policy in the financial sector. The Prime Minister did not suggest that either. If financial parties want to come to the Netherlands, we can explain to them what the legislation is like in the Netherlands. We are, of course, willing to do so and then parties will be seriously interested to settle in the Netherlands. We have a very good locational climate. Mr Omtzigt asked about the ECB's policy. How long can the ECB continue to do so? The ECB has a clear mandate. In there there is a lot of freedom to use resources, but the bank restricts itself in doing so. The implementation of the mandate has been subject to legal review and approval several times. I believe that the ECB should be able to operate independently within the mandate in order to support the development of the euro area. In my opinion, the bank is doing so also in the current difficult circumstances of low interest rates. As has been said, within the buy-in programme, there are a variety of quality requirements, guarantees, ceilings and so on to remain within the mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u73	The Minister says: within the mandate. Does the government still consider it within the terms of reference that interest rates on all government loans have been driven into negative fields by the massive buy-in programme and that if you buy things with negative interest rates, you have to commit to it? This supports economic growth or supports new bubbles and weak banks in southern Europe, where the mess is not cleaned up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u74	The effects are very different by sector. There are also a lot of banks that suffer from low interest rates. Moreover, the low interest rate is not caused by ECB policy. Interest rates have been falling for 20 years, have been very low for a long time and may remain so for a long time. In this low-interest environment, the ECB must fulfil its mandate with the opportunities it has. Are we going to remain within the mandate? It's up to judges to check that out. People are independent in that. It's tested by a judge every now and then. So far, the judges have always said that they remain within the mandate. We have had the discussion with each other before, at least Mr Omtzigt and I, about exactly what the bank should and should not do. I said that, given the mandate, the ECB should be able to operate independently and that, if there are any doubts, that can be brought before the courts. It's happened a few times. Given the requirements and limitations imposed by the ECB itself, the court has still stated that the ECB remains within the mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u75	That is true, especially now that the ECB still has the option of helicopter money. Would the Dutch Government then have doubts about the mandate and be prepared to go to court itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u76	I really do not think it makes any sense to talk about possible further measures taken by the ECB. I'm not going into that either. I will certainly not answer the question of whether we will go to court. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u77	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u78	Then I automatically come to the question about Italian banks. There are still many problems with a number of Italian banks. This has to do with large portfolios of loans that are no longer repaid, where losses are incurred or losses are to be recognised. In itself, it is Italian banks that want to make provision for this, but the problem does not improve or improve much too slowly. The Italian Government has taken several initiatives to try to gradually get these portfolios off the balance sheet, as it is called, so that the balance sheets are healthier again. At the moment, this is really problematic for a number of banks. The European Supervisory Authority shall carry out a stress test. This is partly done by the central bank of Italy under European supervision. On this basis, Italian banks will have to take measures to simply strengthen their balance sheets. The rules are clear. I think the core of the question is whether the rules are going to stand. Yes, those rules stand and have been underlined by several key players. The Banking Union is built on the basis of legislation, not just on trust, but on legislation. It has also been implemented in Italy. The banking supervisor, the European Central Bank, has stressed the importance of bail-in rules, for example, several times in recent weeks. The same applies to the European Commission, which has made clear once again in a communication what the so-called state aid rules for banks are now in terms of competition. These are laid down in legislation, and within that framework, the Italian Government or the banks themselves can deal with their own problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u79	It is good to know that we will abide by the rules in the crisis that is about to break out in Italy. All these banks had a stress test before entering the Banking Union. Since these stress tests, have there been any signs, at any level, that these stress tests have not been carried out properly or that banks have been wrongly admitted to the banking union in the euro area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u80	I give the floor to the Minister, but I also refer to an AO which will be held tomorrow and which will deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u81	I don't have those signals. If you look at those banks, you have to find that there is no liquidity problem at the moment. The Italian authorities have opened a liquidity window as an additional precaution. You can, you can. That is what the Netherlands has had, and the Commission has accepted it. But you can see that these banks actually have no liquidity problems and no acute solvency problems. They have a stuck large wallet with losses in it. At some point, these will have to be removed from the balance sheet. those losses will have to be taken. That is what is happening unless the results of the new stress test show that this problem has become more serious. They will then have to take further measures in the sense of additional provisions or depreciation. But that's really up to the banks themselves. The banks are told by the supervisor: this is how we assess your balance sheet and that is what these provisions, buffers and so on must be against. That's what they've done before. At the start of the Banking Union, Italian banks were also asked to raise additional capital. Some banks have already done so before they were commissioned, because they knew it was just necessary. It may be necessary now. Mr Omtzigt has already said that there is going to be a crisis. There's a strong predictive gift in that. It is not a crisis in terms of acute liquidity problems or acute solvency problems. It is a structural problem of stuck portfolios that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u82	If there are losses not taken on the balance sheet, there is of course just a solvency problem because you have actually lost your own assets and you have to write off your loans. So the question remains open: have the stress tests been properly carried out when the banking union was introduced, or have there been any signs since then within the eurogroup or with other matters....................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u83	No, it's not. That has not been discussed either. I don't have any indication of that either. Of course, the problem of loans that are not repaid or not repaid is already well known, but it is not improving, because the Italian economy is not coming out of the start-ups. Banks have already had to raise additional capital and have made provision for this problem. But it may be that the stress test which I believe will be completed later this month shows that additional provisions need to be made for this or that. must be charged with additional depreciation. It's not like you have to write off that whole wallet at once. The regulator can say that it must be done at a certain size and at a certain rate, and that certain provisions must be made for this. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u84	We will continue with the spring note and I will give the floor to our minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u85	Then I move on to the question about the impact of the Brexit on the Dutch budget for 2017. I can't honestly say. We await the CPB figures for this. The CPB comes in the summer with new estimates and new expectations. The CPB will take international developments into account, including the consequences of the results in the United Kingdom. So we have to wait and see. I have a number of rather broad questions about the budget and then I come to a few more specific points this year. Mr Merkies asked for the supplementary post. He asked whether the budget law was at stake and why the amount was so high. He's considering a motion on that point. The system of the supplementary item is that it reserves funds which have not yet been allocated to budget items, but which do have a spending purpose, such as security, education or the Tax Office. It may be the money from the coalition agreement, but it may also be the money that was added later. For example, the Tax Administration is concerned with the investment agenda necessary for the reorganisation and modernisation of the Tax Administration's IT. That series of investments in the Tax Administration is currently on the additional post. The same applies to the educational resources available for education by the social loan system, which are also partly in an additional post. If these resources were to be used in another area, for example by tabling a motion on them, it would be at the expense of the spending targets that have now been identified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u86	Mr Koolmees rightly said that the Chamber could have a different idea about the spending targets. That is why, of course, you want budget rights on the additional posts. The EU's contribution had to be emptied for this post-tax. It is now being refilled: 360 million this year and in the years thereafter 105 million a year. That is quite important, and that is why it raises the question of whether it is sometimes expected that there will be a further large post-tax in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u87	No. It's just familiar information: we're sure it's gonna come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u88	So the Minister says that this is anticipating a new post-tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u89	No. I have to come back to the question of how this series was built in the second term. I think that's better. But if it can be explained with a note, I'll do it in the first installment. Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt asked about the in=terminals. These were largely due to the fact that, at the end of last year, the departments were able to transfer amounts to this year due to the year-end margin. In order not to burden the framework disproportionately this year, you put it in an in=terminal, because that means that the framework will be closed again at the end of the year with underexhaustation or a new slide. Over the past year, the departments have moved a total of 0.9 billion. As I have just described, we are opposing this in the in=terminal. Is that a large amount of money to get out of the underexhaustment? I don't think so, because over the last few years, we've had bigger amounts of under-exhaustment. I therefore think it will be feasible. Are there any cash slides? There's a cash drawer of defense investments. They go back in time. On the other hand, there are two cash slides, the expenditure on the annual student card and the payment to the World Bank, which we have brought forward. The reason why these investment projects have been delayed is the preparation of those projects. Sometimes it takes longer, and then the money just stays available to the Defense Department in this way. I don't know if it could've gone any faster. That's what the Chamber should discuss with the Secretary of Defense. They are sometimes large and complex projects and it means that they will take place later in time. At the same time, you need to speed up other things to smooth the framework, because you do not want to burden the framework unbalanced in later years. It's not a free money either, because if we don't, we don't suddenly have any money left. At least, you create additional expenses with the corresponding balance problems in later years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u90	I can imagine that explanation on the O.V. student card. When it's delayed, people say, "Okay, we'll have to do it later." But I didn't quite understand this at the World Bank. By the way, I'm saying it wrong. It has to be: then it goes forward. But why pay up front at the World Bank? I haven't heard the explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u91	No, that's okay. The problem, the trigger, is the delayed investment rate in the Defense Department. The Department of Defense wants to extend things over time. In order to smooth that over the years, we need to highlight certain expenditures from the later year, for example 2017. Otherwise, we will tax the 2017 balance disproportionately. So we are going to look for the expenditure that we could drop in this year. There are two possibilities for this. They are not unusual, because we do this more often. We have to pay for the O.V. year card for students. That's a hell of a lot of money. Part of it you can pay in the year before. The same applies to the payment to the World Bank. You could do that before. So we're just looking for the things that we can do before, so that we can create space in 2017 so that Defence's spending and investment can fall just in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u92	Good. I understand that it has nothing to do with the payment to the World Bank, but with something else, namely Defence. That is why they say: let us pay the payment to the World Bank in advance. These are possibilities that the Minister has at his disposal. It would be nice if the Chamber could do the same, because the Chamber is of course also occasionally searching for space.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u93	Yeah, but it's not space. I often have this discussion on the Council of Ministers. Colleagues have a deep desire and say that they want to cover it with a cash drawer. But there's no room for a cash drawer. A cash drawer just means that you postpone certain expenses and at the same time speed up other expenditures. Sometimes you do that within a budget and sometimes you put a slide on one budget backwards and forward on the other budget. You do that because you don't blow up your spending ceilings to say it plastically. Mr Koolmees asked about the extra resources for Groningen. I thought D66 supported that extra resource. This is on top of the 1.2 billion already released by the cabinet for the problem in Groningen. We have therefore set aside additional resources from the gas benefits. In principle, all expenditure is framework relevant. In the budgetary rules, Mr Koolmees knows it and sometimes also makes use of the budget rules, there are exceptions to this principle. Gas revenues and interest expenditure are not covered by the framework. In a broadly supported Bosman motion, additional funds were requested, in particular for the value increase scheme and/or scheme. sustainability in Groningen. We have done so by making money available directly from these non-framework relevant gas benefits. That's the 244 million. Because of the strong coherence that we see between the non-framework-relevant benefits, the gas benefits, and these expenditures, which take place directly to offset the negative effects of these gas benefits, they are not covered by the expenditure framework. This also applies to the whole programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u94	I told you, I think it's a good use. D66 supports the programme. The 1.2 billion previously earmarked for the recovery programme in Groningen has also been excluded from the expenditure framework, I understand. And this happens in the extension of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u95	That's right. Mrs Schouten noted that the cabinet wanted to record the gas extraction for five years, and called that ruling over the grave. Why does the Cabinet do that? We have had some advice from the Mining Board, the SodM and another player. One of these opinions was to apply the five-year deadline of the so-called assent decision. The combination of those advices was that you should actually have a time limit for that five-year planning. After two years, there should be a calibration to see whether all developments, including newly acquired knowledge, in which a lot of investment is being invested, give rise to an interim adjustment. So there's a calibration moment after two years anyway. This is simply taken directly from the advice of the Mining Board and the SodM. Given the sensitivity of the subject, we have done so very consciously. Mr Nijboer asked about estimates of gas extraction revenues. The volume has been adjusted downwards, which has been a policy decision and the price has gone down. We cannot influence that last development. Mr Nijboer asked why revenue has fallen even more sharply. Gas extraction levels have decreased by about half, while gas revenues have decreased by 80%. The fixed costs of extraction have not been reduced in proportion. The gas revenues of the Empire depend not only on turnover, but above all on profits. Profits in gas extraction have decreased significantly as a result of the fall in prices, as costs have decreased much less. In the case of the very profitable Groningen field, especially in relation to the small fields, the volume and price decrease have the greatest effect. The State's contribution to the highest level of payments is 95%. In addition, the cost of repairing and strengthening gas in this field has increased significantly. These costs will be borne by the Empire for about two thirds. The factor that Mr Nijboer lacks is that of cost development. Mr Nijboer and Mr Koolmees spoke enthusiastically about dividends and the estimation of dividends. They have already announced that they will be persistent in this, because they firmly believe that they can be improved. I assume they think it is positive that dividends are developing positively, but they would have liked to have known that with certainty in advance. This is, of course, difficult in the case of dividend estimates. They are, of course, based on expectations. We look at it and we test for realism. We are indeed making a prudent estimate; thank you for Mr Koolmees' compliment. However, it is not a policy button that you have in your hands. We don't run the companies. The sectors in which companies operate are, at least to some extent, open economic sectors. There's risk capital in those companies. So I cannot say, as with other parts of the budget, with some sort of false certainty: I expect the dividends of the Gasunie to develop as follows in the coming year. We do that as best we can, but I'm not going to promise the Chamber any false security. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u96	I am certainly not asking for false security from the Minister, but more realism. Prudent sure is. It has been two years in succession that the final estimate is 50% higher than the initial estimate. Last year it was 600 million, so I say memorized, and this year it was 700 million. That is 50% higher, and these are substantial amounts. I think it is right for the Minister to give a prudent estimate, as it is insecure income. It is about participations, and that is always a little more predictable than, for example, civil servants' salaries. I understand. I understand that you can't completely spot-on windows. But a difference of 700 million, I think, is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u97	I have already indicated that we want to do it more precisely by really developing a so-called standard return per State participation. We are looking at similar companies and similar sectors. What would you expect from a company with this balance sheet and with these risks? We also make that standard return known, and that is just what the annual report on state participations says. For each State's participation, it says: this is the agreement we have made. However, it is long-term. So we are not going to assess or pay off companies annually, but if they deviate from it for a long time, of course we have a conversation with each other. On the other hand, I have already promised that we will be less prudent on the total portfolio. Members will also see this in the draft budget for 2017. Maybe we can meet each other on that point too. What I don't want to do is estimate per state stake. At portfolio level, based on an underlying, better analysis and the approach to standard yield, we can make a better assessment, underlyingly. We then sum up them together with an estimate at portfolio level. That will be less prudent, but I insist that there is a great margin of uncertainty. The nature of companies is not such that you can say in advance: I am going to guarantee this. That's not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u98	I welcome this development, but I would like to go one step further. Could the Minister analyse what's causing it? There's been some setbacks. That's what I've seen in the past few years. The development of the last three years, however, has always shown considerable windfall. For example, could the Minister, together with the Millions Note at Princess Day, send an analysis of how this happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u99	Then it seems to me a more logical place to do so in the next annual report. The annual report always consists of a more general part and one part per State participation. In the general section we can then consider questions such as: how do we estimate? How far have we deviated from it in recent years, and what were the explanatory factors? Mr Harbers asked for the rescue of the ROC Leiden. He has also announced a motion for a resolution on this matter. It is true that out of the 40 million needed to save the ROC Leiden, something the VVD did not want to support, most of it, I believe, comes from the macro-budgets for MBO schools and a smaller amount of 8 million is obtained from funds for quality agreements in the MBO. Still, that's motivating. The same 8 million is not entirely random. 8 million of the necessary resources for ROC Leiden was really meant as a direct investment in the quality of education at ROC Leiden. That is why we consider it reasonable and acceptable to take that part of the budget out of the funds for quality agreements. I would add that this has been discussed with the sector, because the remaining part of the budget comes from the macro budget of all schools. So all schools have to turn in a piece of their budget to save the rock. That's extremely painful, but this is how it's covered. The sector has also asked us to finance a piece of the quality resources in order to spare the other rocks a little bit in their macro-cost. We have done so in consultation with them. It is also legitimate in substance. I'm here to talk to you about the DOD. Mr Omtzigt said about defence expenditure that the trend has not yet been broken. He said that spending goes to 1.1% of GDP and asked if it was true that this is the lowest level in 100 years. Defence expenditure is rising to 1.15% of GDP this year. This has reversed the trend, because the two years before it was 1.09% and even 1.07%. This was for our cabinet period. We're a little higher now, at 1.15%. Depending on what we can make extra space for strengthening the Defence Organization on Prinsjesdag, there is another small plus, but of course I can't say much about that. So far we have added some 670 million to the Defence budget in this cabinet period, in a number of steps that began with Mr Van der Staaij's motion. Mr Omtzigt asked about the voluntary departure scheme at the Tax Office. I thought the Secretary of State had recently discussed the situation at the Tax Office, including the departure scheme. The Chamber also received a letter on 29 June. The continuity of the work of the Tax Administration is not at risk. The same applies to enforcement, which Mr Omtzigt asked for. However, in order to avoid future risks of continuity, after all, we still have a number of years to go into the Investment Agenda, the previous agreements have been adjusted, in line with a sufficient majority of trade unions. This means that the voluntary departure scheme will be closed by 1 September 2016. I would like to return to Mr Merkies' question on the series of EU payments to the supplementary item. This is structural for the impact of the CBS adjustment on EU payments for the years 2016 and beyond. The MPs do remember that in 2015 the CBS carried out a study together with DNB, because it always had different figures. They solved this together. This has led to an upward adjustment of Dutch GNI. This is the expected gross effect of that adjustment. The reservation will be updated in the Millions Note, based on the latest figures at that time. Then I come to the budget of V and J. This has had a lot of attention in the Chamber at various times. I'm gonna get the numbers, 'cause I'm sure the Chamber's gonna ask for them. I support the fact that when we had a debate in the autumn and the Chamber said that there were obvious risks and problems in the V and J budget, I promised, in particular in response to a request from Mrs Schouten, that an analysis should be carried out. We sent that analysis to the Chamber. We then increased the budget of V and J considerably and structurally. The opposition called for an investment of at least 300 million for 2016 and the years after, and we have also delivered it. But that was not enough. That may or may not be right, but it was strange, since the debate we had in the autumn was still at 300 million. Out of the amounts committed in the autumn, 139 million are earmarked for the police and 49 million are added to the additional tasks at present. The autumn budget letter also mentioned additional resources for the case-law and the public prosecutor, which were also made available this year. The financial problems in 2016 are manageable, but at the same time the Ministry of V and J and its components will have to work hard on financial management. The Court of Auditors' report shows that there are serious problems in this area and they really need to be addressed. We will then look at what else is needed and possible on Prince's Day. Mr Omtzig asked specifically about the occasional windfalls from settlements and the way in which they are structurally covered. Last autumn I made an appointment with the Minister of V and J on the occasional income from large settlements. They always entered the budget of V and J, but it is of course difficult to achieve a structural improvement in your budgetary policy there. We have therefore agreed that income from these large settlements will now benefit the general picture and in return 100 million has been added structurally to the budget of V and J. This year, a large settlement of 358 million ECU was received by VimpelCom, a figure of 258 million ECU higher than estimated. Such a windfall is indeed occasional, but that also fits with the nature of settlements. We did not include structural estimates for this, but we did not in the past. However, if you are sure that such a settlement will come in and you are sure of your income, you can of course use it in your budget for the current year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u100	Before I give Mr Omtzigt the floor, I would like to point out that it is now 8.15 p.m. There is another important debate scheduled for 9 p.m., so I would ask both the Minister and my colleagues to give a little room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u101	I'll ask my two questions in one go. Does the Minister consider the budget of V and J to be realistic at the moment, or does he think that the next supplementary budget should include money for problems that we already know? My second question is about the settlements. Are these settlements only aimed at maximizing profits or are they also ensuring that no acquittal or dismissal is promised in the event of serious infringements? After all, this seems undesirable to Libor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u102	Mr Omtzig asked whether the budget was sound or whether it needed more money. The budget is sound, but it is not free from financial tension. That applies to everything, by the way. I think that the additional resources that go to V and J this year are substantial, even though, of course, that money still needs to be well spent. At the same time, financial management really needs to be improved. We will look at what else is needed and possible on Princess Day, but we are not going to add a lot of money on an ad hoc basis, other than the motivated additional resources that we are already making available in the Spring Note. On the second point, I very much agree with Mr Omtzigt. The income from settlements should never be an incentive to focus more on settlements than on prosecution, especially if the latter is appropriate. By removing that revenue from V and J, you can prevent that kind of conflict mix. Those revenues used to come in to V and J, while the D.A. is under the same ministry. That tension is now solved. V and J received a structural grant of 100 million, but the settlements are received by the Minister of Finance. He's not in a relationship with the D.A.'s office, and he's hoping to keep it that way. At least he's in a relationship with the D.A.'s office, but not a relationship of responsibility. This brings me naturally to Mr Merkies' question about what I would have said about justice and police. He asks if I can confirm that I have spoken of "begging" and "beggar." If so, he'd like to apologize. I also read in the paper that I would have used those words. I looked it up, but I didn't use those words. They were introduced in the Algemeen Dagblad in a summary of what I would have said or meant, according to the Algemeen Dagblad. I didn't use those words. I said after a Council of Ministers that I am a little done with the persistent call for more money. By the way, that is a broader sigh of this minister. Not only in the world of V and J, but everywhere the locks must be opened again, as Mr Harbers has already mentioned. It just can't be. We're not that wide. By the way, you also have to make choices in quite a few years. I find it extremely confusing for the citizen to hear from the boss of an important public service: "If we do not get the money requested, that is the beginning of the end of..." followed by a very heavy term. I am extremely critical of that. I find that extremely complicated for the boss of a public service. They were harsh words, and I didn't think that was correct. We are simply discussing what needs to be done over the next few years, and that is more than just money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u103	The minister says he was miscited. The AD used the word begging, while he didn't mention it himself. He did say he was done, just like he admits now. He also said that he should leave it at that, because otherwise he would say much uglier things. That did look like a response to that call from police and justice for more money; that is at least how it was presented. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u104	There were calls for more money from entire sets of public services. You just see it happen. The boss of the first shift goes into the newspaper and says he's in big trouble and he can't carry out his duties if he doesn't get more money right away. Then the boss of the second shift thinks within a week: wait a minute, I have to say so too, otherwise all the money goes to that first shift. That's exactly what happened. The second service was in the newspaper: if we don't get what we asked for, everything will collapse! Prompt followed the third shift. That pattern's just not right. It's not helping either. The cabinet does not make decisions on the basis of interviews in the newspaper, especially when given by people who are simply under the responsibility of the cabinet. It's weird to say in the paper that you need to get money. It really was a competitive battle between these responsible government managers. That's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u105	The Minister now presents it as a competitive battle. I think we have had debates on this before. We have pointed out that the problem arises on several points in the safety chain. In that sense, I do not think it is a competitive battle. Is the Minister saying that they can't say that in public? It's a good thing that when you find out that you have a lot of tasks, that you don't make it and that things stay on the shelf, and if you, as a senior official, think that's what the resources are, you're gonna answer for that and you're gonna do that publicly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u106	That's an interesting point that you can put up a tree about. If you are in charge of an important service in the security chain in the Netherlands and you say on the day of your appointment, the day after the attacks in Paris, "I need more money now, because otherwise I cannot guarantee security," that is a huge statement. I believe that such a statement should primarily be made internally towards the Minister up to and including the Council of Ministers. It's a big deal. Fortunately, I haven't heard a repeat of that statement, but I don't think that's how it works. This creates unnecessary unrest among people who are going to be very concerned at a time when there will be more money for the services. In this Spring note, more money will come for the service. At the same time, problems have to be solved internally. Not every problem is soluble with money and so does the SP. We will continue to address this issue constructively in the near future. Mr Omtzigt asked about the self-employed pension measure. The Chamber received a letter on this matter. This brings out the tax revenues that would otherwise be introduced over a long period of time. That's the system. The total of that series, i.e. its net present value, is just a plus. Doesn't mean we found a money machine here all of a sudden. You're just raising some future revenue. Mr Omtzigt asked how the revenue was used. We'll come back to that on Prince's Day. The Secretary of State sent this letter ahead of Prinsjesdag, because he had promised it to the Chamber and the Chamber had several times reappeared at what the pension was about. Once again, on Prince's Day, we will return to the use of these funds. The following point concerns the development of income for earners, in particular a earner with a chronically ill partner. Mrs Schouten and Mr Omtzigt spoke about this. The crux is, of course, that the partner cannot work and is therefore unable to earn an income on his own. What is the income development for this particular group? We will decide on the purchasing power picture in August. Then we also look at groups, especially groups that are having a hard time. I admit that we will therefore pay attention to this group. We have to be realistic, though. We have had this discussion more often, because it is extremely difficult to define such a very specific group and to achieve it effectively. So I cannot commit to results, but I recognize the problem. We will see if there are viable solutions and we will return to them on Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u107	I already think it's a gain that the cabinet recognizes the problem. Last year we discussed this for hours in the review of the tax system, but at that time the problem was not recognised. Do I hear the Minister say that he may only want to look at the income position of a earner who has a chronically ill or disabled partner and that he simply accepts that there can be a difference in taxation between one and two earners on the same income from €8,000 to €11,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u108	I listened very carefully to Mrs Schouten. It has zoomed in on this very specific group against the background of the larger issue of the income development of sole earners. The cabinet does not intend, in general terms, to go back from individual taxpayers to households in our tax system, to the introduction of households into taxes. That step, which is emancipatory and focuses on employment rates, was taken years ago and we are not going to reverse it. We shall therefore continue to disagree. We will also continue to disagree on the importance of childcare, as Mrs Schouten seems to think something elitist and we consider it important from the point of view of emancipation and participation in the labour market. Inside, she made a very specific point. I have promised that we will work with Social Affairs and VWS to see if we can meet that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u109	I've already qualified that as a profit, as a step in the right direction. However, the Minister listened a little too closely to my story, because it was really about the broad group. I did say that I thought it was certainly unfair in a situation where there was no choice at all. It remains that the difference between us is too unfair in any case. I will return to it in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u110	I'm actually done, Mr. Chairman. Do you want me to respond to the amendments already, or do we do so in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u111	You may respond already, if you wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u112	I can do it pretty fast. There are three amendments tabled by Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks whose coverage is loss of balance. For that reason alone, the cabinet will discourage them. I see that a number of amendments are aimed at EZ. I don't know if I should respond to that. I will come back to that in second term. It's a mer à boire to subjects. I see one here about the NVWA. There a budget reserve is being plundered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u113	Fine. Then let's do it in the second term. Then you'll have a little time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u114	There is, moreover, another question on the basis of an amendment. Maybe I can take it with me. That question is actually about the asylum reserve. It is used as cover, I believe in Mr Koolmees' amendment. The asylum reserve is a budget reserve specifically intended for fluctuations in difficult to estimate expenditure on asylum, in particular expenditure on reception. If an asylum seeker enters during the year, there will be an immediate obligation in the BuHa-OS budget to finance reception for a year. These costs arise at that time, but they also continue in the following year. The estimated expenditure for this will be taken to the following year through the asylum reserve. The vast majority of resources are needed for this. So you can't get them out, because then we simply have too little money for the first year of shelter of people who have already come in. The reserve is not exhausted, but given the many uncertainties I do not want to exhaust it either. The asylum reserve is explicitly not intended to finance new policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u115	I asked the Minister if he could clarify the costs of asylum and the coverage from various sources, including in relation to the asylum reserve. It may be up to me, but then it is also a bit up to the Research and Government Office. We do not have sufficient understanding of the exact way in which the costs and the coverage of these costs are put together in relation to the OS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u116	There are actually two questions in that. The first concerns the full range of expenditure on asylum or asylum seekers. It's hard to answer, because some things are just in existing budgets. There's no separate earmarked money for that. This applies, for example, to part of the expenditure of schools. That's supposed to be part of the budget. This applies to part of public health expenditure. That's just in the budgets. We expect the institutions to do so within the existing resources. Some things are very visible in the budget. They are on several budgets, but that is not very difficult in itself. Some expenditure is included in the budget of V and J and some are included in other budgets. The other question is to what extent does it charge the BuHa-OS budget. We can put that back on paper, but that is clear in itself. BuHa-OS certainly pays two big things. First of all, that's the first year of care. Secondly, we are making funds available to refugees in the region through BuHa-OS. Through the emergency fund, we have increasingly made funds available to improve the quality of life in the camps in Lebanon and other countries. I believe that all this is visible in the budget of BuHa-OS. If Mr Grashoff can indicate more precisely what he is looking for, I can see if we can deliver it, because providing information is our duty and our daily joy. Mr Omtzigt can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u117	It is not my intention to ask for some sort of ultimate pass-through of where once only some expenses were associated with refugees in regular budgets. I fully agree with the Minister. That's a rather absurd approach. However, I would like to know what the costs are now for receptions that are related to the OS budget, to the asylum reserve, which in one way or another has been pushed over the years and in which there is an access to the OS budget and its use. We're not getting that sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u118	I'm gonna improvise now. I propose that I send a letter together with Minister Ploumen in which we specify which asylum expenditure was financed in any way from the BuHa-OS budget. Is that the information Mr Grashoff is looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u119	That's about the information I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u120	I like a quick answer, but I had asked some serious questions about the investment bank. What's the government's position on that? I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u121	Yeah, excuse me. I have a few things left on my checklist. Let me take that investment bank first. Mr Kremers has partly on his own initiative, partly supported by a number of private parties in the meantime prepared a plan for the Dutch Financing Institution for Economic Development. He offered that to me and Minister Kamp. We have reacted positively to this. If you do the analysis, we also see a number of investment bottlenecks. They're in two different areas. This is in the context of SME financing. We do not need to have this debate now, but we have developed all kinds of instruments for that. Yet there is still more profit possible. It is on the side of the larger (semi) public projects. Then you can think of renewable energy or other forms of infrastructure. The proposal involves a bit of a big bang, at least a very large institution in which you put everything together. Minister Kamp and I have responded positively because we believe that bottlenecks in investment are really a theme. We really think there's a profit to be made. There is a great deal of fragmentation in regulations and institutions active in these areas. So there is an efficiency impact with recasting. It is our intention to certainly come to the Chamber with our vision of this period of office. I suspect that should be possible this autumn. That was Mr Nijboer's specific question. Then perhaps we can take the first steps before the elections. I'd love to, because if I don't, I'm gonna get bored. We need to stay a little active. But Mr Kamp and I are very motivated on this point. On my checklist I still see the subject of the SDE budget reserve. Mr Omtzigt asked about its management. In my opinion, that is in order. Can we get an annual overview of this budget reserve, broken down by what is mandatory and what is not? Yes, as a result of a report by the General Court, I have already promised the Chamber that we will improve information on budgetary reserves. We do that in two places. In chapter 4 of the Millions Note, we are going to pay more attention to the phenomenon of budgetary reserve. More structuralally, we are going to give more information in the departmental budgets by budget reserve. Of course, the question is how much there is in that reserve, but also the question of what it is intended for, which part is mandatory, which part is not mandatory and what expenditures have been or are to be foreseen. We are really going to expand that type of information; so is the SDE scheme. I think I finished my list with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u122	Mr President, the Minister just gave half a response to amendments; a few of me passed by. I find it interesting to ask questions about that, but I would like to get rid of that until the second term. Then I'd like to have the opportunity later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u123	Yes, I'll give you that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u124	I had one more question about the pollution of the ODA budget and how the cabinet is structured about dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u125	Funding the first-year reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands from ODA budgets is not pollution. This fits within the international agreements and definitions of what ODA is. If these definitions were to change in the international context in the future, we will, of course, follow them. However, it is the policy of this cabinet, and I also thought of previous Cabinets, to finance the first-year reception from the ODA budgets. I really do not agree with the view that we are spending a substantial part of the ODA money on ourselves. We're dealing with a humanitarian crisis. If we were to spend some of the money on receiving care in the region, it would be good, but if we were to spend money on taking care of them well in the Netherlands in the first year at least, it would not be well spent. I sincerely disagree with that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u126	The fact is, of course, that now about one fifth of the budget for the poorest people is being skimmed to spend on the reception of refugees here. This might make the problem bigger there, so that the current might get even more going. So I would almost say: penny wise, pound foolish, regardless of what you think of it. We have already tabled a motion, even with the Labour Party, not to put it into practice in this way. We will see how we can find a different structural solution to this problem. However, I understand that the cabinet is not prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u127	I still have that motion in mind. It said that there should be no cuts in current programmes at Buha-OS. As far as I can tell, we haven't. Mrs Schouten rightly pointed out that we do draw from the growth space. Every time economic growth improves, the budget of BuHa-OS is also structurally adjusted due to the link with the GNP. We have indeed put forward such an extra piece of money on the amounts for BuHa-OS, so that we can hopefully cover this occasional peak in expenditure. Moreover, this does not place a mortgage on future growth, as Mrs Schouten calls it. It is growth that has now actually been realized. If there is further growth in the future, the ODA budget will be increased again. We have to wait and see, but this is based on the adjusted growth rate that has been achieved at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u128	Thank you very much. We will continue with the second term from the side of the Chamber. I would ask you to place your interruptions very limited. I call Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u129	Mr. Chairman. To deal with this last point, it is, of course, pollution of the ODA budget. Just because you comply with international rules doesn't mean anything. Unfortunately, these international rules allow pollution of the ODA budget. They should therefore also be adapted accordingly. We are talking about asylum seekers, but it is still on top of the pollution that was already caused by the missions, for example. I'll be on the three motions. There's no way they've been executed. The Minister then raises the point that 300 million has been reserved. Yeah, but it was there by then. After that, these motions were put to the vote, which was also voted for by the coalition parties, in other words by everyone. Then, of course, you don't have to come up with the $300 million again. The only extra thing is the 49 million for the police. But that's not enough for the police, and we also had the problem of the courts and the D.A.'s office. That's what the Minister's gonna say for the sake of convenience, but he's not gonna go into it for a while. There is still the issue of supplementary posts. You can say: it has been put away for a certain purpose and for that reason the Chamber cannot really say anything about it. I don't think the Chamber, no matter what you think of it and which way you want to go, would do itself any justice if she said so. At least you want to have the opportunity to exercise the budget right. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that reservations on supplementary posts are increasing;]] [[noting that the additional items are not part of the budget and amendment rights;]] [[Whereas the Ministry of Finance manages the additional posts;]] [[calls on the Government to include the additional posts in the Finance budget, so that these funds are also covered by the Court's budget and amendment rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34485-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u130	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I think we also agree, especially when the Minister quoted my words that if there is some money again, it does not automatically mean that there is money for everything. On one point of the answer I have a different reading. That's about ROC Leiden. The Minister makes a lot of sense. He says: the sector itself also very much wants it to go for a piece out of the cost of quality, otherwise everything will be charged to the macro budget. I believe that, because the sector does not want this whole quality benefit at all. The sector wants macro-budget. If the budget for the cost of quality is reduced, the sector will also be less dependent on quality agreements. The quality cost involved additional resources for extra quality, and was not intended as a catch-up for everything that went wrong at an institution. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, EUR 40 million is needed to save the ROC Leiden;]] [[noting that the Minister informed the Chamber that these funds would be financed from the macro-budget;]] [[Considering that in 2017 the Minister intends to raise EUR 8 million from funds intended to provide quality benefits to finance the rescue;]] [[Whereas the problem at the ROC Leiden could arise because teachers did not make the choices in the interests of good quality education, whereas the quality benefit encourages this;]] [[Calls on the Government not to reduce the quality cost in 2017 and to finance the total amount for the rescue of the ROC Leiden from the overall macro budget of the MBO institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Harbers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34485-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u131	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his clear answers in a year this year, and I would like to say it quite honestly at a somewhat boring debate on the Spring paper. The Minister is smiling now. Our colleagues from V and J are looking at the Labour Party now have done the nice part last week. I wonder whether the budget of V and J, which is subject to tension of course, will prove to be realistic. I guess we'll find out on Prince's Day. I have one more outstanding question. We still have a bit of a disagreement on ECB policy. That's not new. The question is whether the 4 billion extra that is now being built up at DNB as a buffer for potential setbacks is still sufficient, as the setbacks seem to pile up on all sides. I am referring, in particular, to the potential setbacks caused by the QE which is getting bigger each time, because of what is happening to the Italian banks and because there is a negative interest rate, which makes buying up government loans a very expensive hobby, also for a central bank. This is a scenario that I don't think anyone would have thought about. I was, like Mrs Schouten, actually surprised by the fact that the Minister said he was paying attention to the group mentioned. Of course, we understand the problems of demarcation, but it is very specific to the group of sole earners with a sick partner or a partner who is involuntaryly unemployed and who actually wants to work. It is very strange that, if you have one income of €40,000 and you do not have a partner but you do have children, your net income is higher than if you do have a partner and the same number of children. So if your partner leaves or you get rid of it, your net income shoots up, while you have fewer mouths to feed or have less care costs. That has nothing to do with carrying capacity anymore. The same applies to two-earers. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the disposable income of one earner compared with two earners on the same family income and compared with single parents is very much lower;]] [[Whereas not all earners consciously choose to be a earner, e.g. involuntary unemployment or longterm illness of the non-working partner;]] [[Whereas the tax system should be designed in a fair manner and should in principle be levied according to capacity;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify the cases where families with children and a non-working partner have lower net disposable income compared to a single parent or two-earners with the same total gross income;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to the 2017 Tax Plan to reduce or eliminate these imbalances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34485-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u132	I heard Mr Omtzigt say: it is that very specific group with a sick partner and very special circumstances. I do not, however, hear this in the motion because it calls for generic measures. That makes it difficult for me to judge the motion before I vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u133	The motion states: long-term sick partner or an involuntary unemployed partner. When you are involuntaryly unemployed, do not have a WW benefit in SZW language, we call that "nug," non-profit-holders and look hard for a job, you come to rest on the family income. For that group, we should do something. That's different from people who choose to do it voluntarily. We understand Minister Dijsselbloem's remark that it is difficult to distinguish between them in practice. We are therefore asking for proposals to be made in this direction. We understand that the whole problem will not be solved in the next tax plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u134	I will read the motion very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u135	Yes. I would also like to thank Mr Grashoff for asking the question, because the explanation is also part of the legal history and this is precisely what this motion is for. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to clearly state the obligations under the SDE+ scheme. That is a big deal, so I would advise him to start clarifying there, and with some other large items in the budget. We'll get back to the AFB on that. The final motion concerns Italy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Italian Government has taken and intends to take measures to mitigate the balance sheet problems of Italian banks;]] [[Whereas the difficulties encountered by Italian banks in a crisis situation may result in a domino effect for Dutch banks with all the economic consequences that this entails and for the Dutch economy;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine, where possible, the risks to the Netherlands of the situation in Italian banks, to take measures to mitigate these risks and to ensure that agreed rules within the Banking Union, such as bail-in debt securities, are also applied to Italian banks;]] [[invites the Government also to inform the Chamber immediately in the event of emergency and otherwise to inform it within a number of weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34485-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u136	I heard the Minister say: according to state aid rules. I would have asked that question, but I only have a few interruptions. That's an interesting fact. If you just say "bail-in," you don't want it through the weaker state aid rules, but through the entire deep bail-in, according to the BRRD. I assume that Mr Omtzigt is also thinking of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u137	Yes, in principle, as the Minister has promised, we are sticking to the rules we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u138	Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor as the next speaker to Mr... Mr. Merkies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u139	Yes, but well, rules have also been agreed on the state aid rules. This is where Mr Omtzig refers to the BRRD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u140	Yeah, I mean the BRRD. I also mean, as I understand the Minister, that we comply with the state aid rules. As Mr Merkies knows, I had great concerns about the system of senior/junior unions with guarantees on senior unions, which was implemented quickly when it was just possible, at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u141	Good. As next speaker, I give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u142	Mr. Chairman. Although I personally am a fan of some more intense debates at the sharpest of the cuts, I think it is nice for budgetary policy that we are having a quiet debate today. This is also the merit of four years of responsible budgetary policy. I see Mr Merkies looking a little difficult. The issues to be dealt with, such as asylum policy and refugees, the problems in Groningen, the rent allowance, must be dealt with in the budget without any turbulence. Yet another step has been taken today. I have made a plea for an investment bank and I have heard the cabinet respond very positively to it. During this cabinet period, the Minister wants to take steps to better finance SMEs and to develop not only large infrastructure projects, but above all projects that stimulate the sustainable economy. I look forward to that with confidence and great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u143	Thank you very much. I very much invite you to sit down for a sharp debate later. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u144	Thank you for the invitation, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I have other obligations! Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. I would also like to thank him for the commitment to make an estimate of the dividends of state participations and to report on this in the annual report. That saves Mr Nijboer and me another motion that we would have liked to have beaten up the Minister. Because of this commitment, I do not have to do so, so I shall not table the motion. Rapid schooling asylum children is really a political choice, as far as my group is concerned. That would cost 16 million according to our amendment. The asylum reserve is also intended for this purpose; at least it is a political choice to use it for this purpose. It fits within the budgetary rules, so there are no technical obstacles to putting the reserve in place. That is why we shall vote on this amendment. Of course, we hope for broad support in this Chamber to resolve this, so that children can indeed go to school quickly and participate quickly in Dutch society. Finally, I come to the investment bank, the NFEO. The cabinet reacted positively to this. I am very interested in the further steps that are being taken. I am also positive about a cabinet vision in the autumn, because I think it is very sensible to pull this type of investment loose. I am therefore very curious to see what the cabinet will bring. I look forward to that with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u145	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that we are finally going to look at the well-spent individualisation thinking in terms of one-earning and two-earning. As far as we are concerned, however, the problem is even more fundamental and it is not just about chronically ill and disabled partners and sick children. There is no doubt that injustice is the greatest, but I am also thinking of all those other people who, for example, have no benefit and are therefore nugatory. They're not coming into the picture at all. I am also thinking of people who have caring responsibilities for their parents or for their loved ones. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the income position of earners is lower than that of other groups;]] [[Whereas for many more earners more work does not automatically mean that they are making net progress;]] [[considers that this is not fair, especially since household life is not always a voluntary choice, for example because of a chronically ill or disabled partner;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to improve significantly the income position of a earner in the purchasing power decisionmaking process in August,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34485-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u146	I shall also table this motion so that we do not get any more working arms later. I did not receive an answer to my question on my second point. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Nijboer/Harbers motion (2151-07, No. 1356), which calls on the government to make proposals for the budgetary treatment of OCW to improve and ensure equal educational opportunities for each child and every young person;]] [[Whereas vocational education and training geared to practical skills contributes to the emancipation of certain groups of children and young people less qualified in theoretical education;]] [[calls on the Government to make concrete proposals for investment in vocational education and training focusing on practical skills for the budgetary treatment of OCW in the context of equal educational opportunities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34485-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u147	Finally. I will not see the Minister tomorrow, because tomorrow morning I have a choice of three debates. Unfortunately, therefore, I have to leave the AO Ecofin. I thank the Minister for his commitment this year and I wish him a great deal of rest this summer, if Greece and Great Britain do not play too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u148	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answer, but he has not answered any questions from me, except one. I had only one question, but it was finally answered in the event of interruption, so that's fine. I welcome the commitment that there will be a bit more clarity around the ODA budgets. In the meantime, I understand that I'm not the only one who couldn't make sense of it. However, we, too, feel that the extent to which the refugee issue is now pressing on the ODA budget is out of proportion, regardless of the international agreements that exist. I agree with Mrs Schouten's remarks, but we too have said so before. We believe that we should do something about this. We shall look at this point again and, if necessary, come back to it in the course of the budget debate. For the rest, I have tabled a number of amendments which the Minister said with half a word that he would absolutely discourage, which does not surprise me entirely. However, as far as we are concerned, the debate should be about how we invest in the sustainable future of this country and not so much about the exact interpretation of how a budget rule should be applied to these amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u149	Mr. Chairman. Let me see if there is a logical order for dealing with the amendments, because they are all amendments to departmental budgets. It seems to me that it is best to keep the roman figures in the budgets. I shall begin with Mr Van Meenen's amendment to item No. 4 (34485-VIII). On the basis of this amendment, money will be made available for education for asylum children. I heard Mr Koolmees say that the aim of the amendment is to make education available quickly. I don't think this is a question of money. Funds have been made available by OCW, also additional resources, for the education of refugee children. To a large extent, they are children who are subject to compulsory education. There's always money for that. In addition to regular funding, there are new entrants' schemes for schools to promote rapid integration into education. We also have new tailor-made arrangements. I should not be asked about the details of these arrangements. The Minister of Education can of course provide it. Almost all children go to school within three months; most children far within this period. If the problem is that it is not fast enough, then it is not a question of money, but possibly a question of practical and organisational problems. The Chamber will shortly receive a letter from the State Secretary of OCW on the state of play in asylum-seekers' education. So there's a letter on the way. In that light, I have a negative opinion on the amendment to item No. 4. In our opinion, the additional money is really not necessary. If the bottleneck is the tempo, then it can't be solved with money. That's a matter of organisation. Again, on that subject, the Chamber receives a letter. I have to discourage the amendment. I now turn to the amendment tabled by Mr Geurts, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Dik-Faber in part. 5 (34485-XIII) on the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority. I have a comment on the content and on the coverage. The additional contribution to the NVWA provided for in the Spring Note is precisely preventing NVWA from passing on inefficiency to the business sector through fees. In other words, the problems are deliberately not included in the fees that businesses have to pay. That wouldn't be right either. The cabinet does not consider it necessary to make additional money available to further reduce fees for business. The coverage of the amendment is taken out of the budget reserve apurement. This budget reserve is being established because large amounts of European subsidies are channelled through the EZ budget. There is always uncertainty about this, because it has to be justified and the EU can always ask for a share if it is not properly spent or justified. In this light, the budget shall have a reserve of at least 10%. That amounts to 90 million. I find a lower reserve really irresponsible in relation to the possible EU corrections. I therefore consider the coverage from this budget reserve to be inadequate. I therefore advise against this amendment. This motivates me to give specific attention to budgetary reserves in the millions note, because it is really important that they are built up. There are simply uncertainties and risks in budgets, and for that there are those reserves. These are resources that are specifically set aside. The Chamber now wants to develop a tradition and say that there is a budget reserve, that money is over, and that is what we can cover amendments with. But the same Chamber and the same Mr Omtzigt have asked me to take a look at the risks of the national budget and to introduce sensible risk management policies. We are doing this through the creation of budgetary reserves. So you can't make ad hoc money there again for legitimate purposes on your own, because then the risks will be neglected again. I shall now turn to Amendment No 1, which seeks to amend the motion for a resolution by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council I do not know, Mr President, whether you would like my opinion on this, because the signature alone means that I leave the opinion entirely to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u150	Very wise, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u151	Then there are the amendments tabled by Mr Grashoff. I thought I just had three, but I've only got two in front of me now. So somewhere in the process, I lost one. I have given them all to my officials, but I am still missing one amendment from Mr Grashoff. I have here the amendment to item No. 5 (34485-VIII) which is about extra money for primary education because of refugee children. I have just given a substantive opinion on this. The coverage here is the EMU balance. This coverage is incorrect and the substance of the amendment is not necessary. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u152	Minister, if I may, I would like to give Mr Grashoff the floor on this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u153	Of course, we could take a crack at the cover. I understand the Minister, but I would like to comment on the content of this amendment. There was also a brief discussion about the Van Meenen amendment, which partly has the same intention, although I am referring this amendment to primary education and Mr Van Meenen's amendment to primary and secondary education. The problem is that there should be a second year's funding, also at the request of the Chamber. This funding for the second year seems to have been foreseen from 2017. That's what I get from the letter from the Secretary of State for Education. However, the problem already exists in 2016. That's the risk a yo-yo carries. The funding stops for certain students and starts again on 1 January 2017. That hole is 8 million in primary education. That's where I saw that amount. I also recognised that amount in Mr Van Meenen's amendment. That's what I wanted to say about the content. Perhaps this offers a different perspective than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u154	I sincerely do not recognize Mr Grashoff's description. For the first year there is additional funding. For the rest, there are specific benefits. Besides, there's the regular budget. In our view, there is simply no problem in funding the schools. And I've already ruled on the cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u155	I can imagine this in itself, because this is a very specific education-related discussion. But the problem is there. So I think it would be wise if the Minister presented this amendment to the Secretary of State for Education. In any case, he will recognize my reasoning. Whether he agrees is another question. But at least we'll know what it's really about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u156	I am always happy to be able to do that. A colleague will have to do some work, but we will have to vote on it tomorrow, so it will be a very short and business note from the Secretary of State for Education on this particular point. Mr Grashoff says that there is a funding gap because something has been settled since 2017 which has not yet been settled. The same goes for Mr Koolmees' amendment, no, Van Meenen. This has to be in the Chamber by tomorrow morning so that we can vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u157	We will pass this on to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u158	That's right there in box-K!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u159	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm glad you're doing that. I come to Mr Grashoff's amendment to item No. 4 (34485-XV) with which the amount for integration should be increased. Mr Grashoff felt that there was not enough money available. The cabinet doesn't agree with that analysis. The coverage from the balance is very attractive, but it doesn't seem very serious. The cabinet doesn't think that's wise. This also applies to the amendment on renewable energy sources in part No. 4 (34485-XIII). The SDE scheme is covered by contributions in the form of a storage on the energy account. I do not believe that there are such bottlenecks that we need to put extra money there. There is talk of investments that benefit the climate. The SDE scheme is for that, so it seems that we are simply pushing more money into a jar where there is no bottleneck at the moment. There's enough money in it for exactly this purpose. I therefore do not understand the necessity and logic of the amendment. And the cover is again the balance. The balance is in safe hands at GroenLinks. We can see that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u160	I would ask Mr Grashoff to intervene only if it is really very urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u161	I really want to say something about that balance. I am not suggesting that the main item should be charged to the balance, but I note that the balance has been adjusted in a positive way during the year. It's the sum total of windfalls and setbacks. It does not seem illogical to me, nor does it seem a political choice whether or not you want to use them. The Minister doesn't want that. That is his political choice, and that is something other than that it would not be possible and that it would be totally absurd. The choice of GroenLinks is to name this difference as expendable money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u162	Mr Grashoff is absolutely right, so my silly joke was inappropriate. It's just a political choice whether you give these things so much priority that you can raise the balance for that. For this reason, the Cabinet will not support this coverage. We also set a number of priorities, but we also want to improve the balance further. It's a political consideration. I would almost forget Mr Omtzigt's question about the provision made by the Dutch Bank. It is a provision that is linked to the risks that DNB may also face under the so-called QE programme: the ECB's monetary policy. For these risks, we have agreed with the Netherlands Bank that he will determine in independence how high they are. The bank has a risk model for that. A reservation is made within the bank. I say this so sharply because other risks, which were linked to political decisions, namely the rescue programmes for Greece and so on, have provided us with a guarantee scheme for DNB. But that is not what we are doing here. This is really about monetary policy which the monetary authorities must be able to carry out in complete independence. This cannot therefore be covered by a government guarantee scheme. However, it does mean that the Dutch Bank must be able to reserve for this purpose. The amount determined by the Netherlands Bank on the basis of risk modelling is adequate. That is the answer to Mr Omtzig's question as to whether it is sufficient. If monetary policy is to be changed further, extended or continued longer than is currently envisaged, this amount may need to be increased and more reserved. Moreover, monetary policy also leads to profits. It even leads to substantial profits from central banks, because they buy securities on which there is a return. That paper will be on the balance sheet and revenue will come from it, which in turn means that the risk reserve will stand against higher profits. DNB will build that facility in a relatively short time with large steps of 500 million per year. Once that provision is built up and adequate, there will be another large dividend flow to finance. Mr. Chairman. I'll move on to the motions. I have six, the first of which was submitted by Mr Merkies in section No. 3. This motion concerns the supplementary post. One could say that it is a matter of principle, because it affects the system of supplementary mail. Mr Merkies says that the Chamber should have full budget and amendment rights, especially now that the additional post is getting bigger and bigger. However, there is indeed a full budget right to this reservation, because budget law means that we can only spend after the approval of the Chamber. We must first transfer these funds from the supplementary item to the budget items. The Chamber will see that, because that will be reflected in the budget or a supplementary budget. If, for example, we transfer funds to OCW, the Chamber can say that it does not agree with that at the time it is included in the budget and that it cannot allow it to do so because it wants to use the money for something else. The budget law, the requirement for the Chamber to give the green light for expenditure or any other prioritization, therefore remains in place. If Mr Merkies does not want to wait for the supplementary item to be transferred to a budget item because he already wants to have an influence on it, he can do so by motion. He may state in a motion that he does not think a particular reservation is correct or that the money should already be transferred to OCW or another budget. I would, however, like to maintain the supplementary post mechanism, because it really enables us to make funds available to departments only when plans have been approved by the Council of Ministers and expenditure is foreseen in the short term. It's not on parts yet. I say to Mr Merkies that I will continue to look critically at the size of the supplementary post. There's a few big factors in it now. These relate to the large investment agenda of the Tax Administration and the flow of funds to OCW from the revenue that will come from the social loan system at some point. I admit that I will take a critical look at this in order to ensure that the additional item does not grow any further. I cannot put an exact figure on it right now, but I understand his point that at least the right of amendment will be restricted if more and more resources are set aside. With this plea, I want the Chamber to be able to maintain the system of supplementary posts. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 3. Mr Harbers has taken part in this debate. 4 tabled a motion on the ROC Leiden. Much has been said about this in the Chamber and in the OCW committee with the Minister of OCW. Mr Harbers explains to me the background why educational institutions want this. I don't know if that's right. Maybe he's projecting his worst thoughts on innocent educators! But maybe he's right. I would like to abstract: this is the coverage proposed by the cabinet. The quality expenditure is covered by the quality resources and for that reason I do not recommend the adoption of the motion. Mr Omtzigt has in part No. 5 tabled a broad motion on sole earners and families with children and non-working partners. The analysis requested in this motion, I believe, was done not so long ago in a comprehensive letter, entitled 'CPB note-through cabinet reaction standard purchasing power sample households'; on this copy I no longer have a date. This letter shows the differences between single parents, single-earned families and two-earners. So we are not going to make that analysis again. Nor are we going to take wide-ranging compensatory measures for sole earners. Moreover, I think that letter also shows that you can really have a discussion about the need to do so. We do not need to repeat it now. I keep my promise that we will look at the specific situation of sole earners with a chronically ill partner, because that is a special circumstance and because people's freedom of choice is not there in those cases because of special circumstances. That's what we're gonna look at. The motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt's 6th report deals with Italian banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u163	Mr Omtzigt, I see you walking to the microphone, but you have had an extended second term and you have used even more time to do so. This is not a third term. You may withdraw or hold the motion and come to the microphone for that, but do not hold a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u164	I just wanted to ask if we could get that for Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u165	I'm gonna try not to say anything before Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u166	On Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u167	On Prince's Day we will discuss this subject. As I have said, I cannot now promise that we will be able to develop appropriate and targeted measures for this, but we are going to take a serious look at them and come back to them with Princess' Day. The motion for a resolution refers to part No. 6 on Italian banks I must advise against. The Italian Government has taken a number of measures, on which I have already informed the Chamber. I read here that the government wants to take further measures. There's a lot of talk about that. So it is undoubtedly being looked at, but we really do not know anything about it. The motion also talks about a domino effect to Dutch banks. I don't think so. We have a clear policy on how banks should strengthen their balance sheets, how they should take losses and, if it is even more bleak, how resolution should take place, so how banks should be settled with deposit protection, etc. et cetera et cetera. So I don't foresee a domino effect. I foresee a controlled approach, which is complicated and where losses must be suffered. But the big question is: who bears the losses? That's why I'm dissuading the motion. If there are any major calamities there, I will, of course, inform the Chamber. The motion in part No. 7 by Mrs Schouten is also about the income position of a earner. This motion does deal specifically with the problem of the chronically ill or disabled partner, but then, after "requests the government', it again covers the income position of a earner. So I have the same opinion as Mr Omtzigt's motion. I dissuade the motion and maintain my promise. In the motion in part No. Mrs Schouten actually says that you must carry out the Nijboer/Harbers motion. That's what the government's planning. We shall return to that on Prince's Day. That is why this motion is really superfluous. I do not know whether, under the new policy of the Chamber, we should make it clear that I am taking over the motion, but in fact I think she is really superfluous. There is an approved motion by Mrs Schouten's colleagues, and I simply do not understand why Mrs Schouten will then get over it with a new motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u168	I would like to remove that misunderstanding, because I do not want to go over my colleagues. It is actually a clarification of the interpretation of the Nijboer/Harbers motion. Of course, we have many options to combat inequality. This motion specifically asks to look at vocational education and training focused on practical skills.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u169	Yes, but that is what the Nijboer/Harbers motion specifically fills in, without any precise justification. But that may go too far now; it is also a debate to be held with the Minister for Education and Science. The Nijboer/Harbers motion has been adopted and I have therefore also promised to put it first and to see what is necessary and possible with this task. We'll come back to that on Prince's Day. Mrs Schouten will then be able to assess whether the content is satisfactory. That's why I advise against this motion. Maybe Mrs. Schouten can arrest her. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u170	Would you like to arrest her or withdraw her, Mrs. Schouten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u171	I'm gonna think about that for a little while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u172	That's how I dealt with all six motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u173	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-14.u174	I thank all the spokesmen very much for their contribution and the Minister for all the answers. We will vote tomorrow on the motions and the amendments that have been tabled.
