ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I call Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday it was announced that municipalities have EUR 1.2 billion left over to health care and youth care. At the same time, many people are less concerned than before and ask for high contributions of their own. Youth care is also stopped in some municipalities. In the context of decentralisation, it is very sensible that municipalities do not spend everything because they are still facing substantial cuts. My party has always questioned the level of these cuts and the speed with which they have been introduced. The fact that municipalities complete the decentralisations in different ways and that they produce different results does not have to be so crazy. However, it cannot be the case that people who really need care miss them because of the wrong budgeting of municipalities. In Almere, for example, the money for youth care would already be gone. A few years ago, GroenLinks called for an emergency fund for distressing cases. In this way, there will be one nationwide point of contact where people who lose their necessary care can knock. Now they have nowhere to go. The Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten (VNG) is currently investigating deficits on municipal budgets for youth care. In the meantime, I have done a round with a number of aldermen from medium-sized municipalities. They all indicate that they have a little left over on the Wmo, but they see deficits on the youth care money. The cabinet sketches the picture that municipalities have enough money to carry out their tasks, but that is simply not true. I therefore have the following questions to the Secretary of State. How can some municipalities be left with money and other municipalities are already out of the budget for youth care? How is it possible that the implementation and the scope of the tasks of municipalities differ so much? Does the Secretary of State see a role for himself in this? Does he think an emergency fund for distressing cases is a good idea? What does the Secretary of State think about the fact that there are municipalities that have money left, but at the same time demand a high level of own contribution? Does he see any reason to intervene? Yesterday, the cabinet announced that there is ample budget, but isn't that statement premature when you consider that 2015 is a transitional year and that the cuts in the coming years will be much higher? Should the cabinet not use this message correctly to see how we prevent these deficits from occurring in 2016 and 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The message that municipalities are expected to have 1.2 billion left over in the social domain is something to talk about. As you know, I'm also a nuanced human being. I can make all kinds of nuances, such as: this is the first year, municipalities will sometimes have to operate in a somewhat unclear situation, because they don't know how many people they actually get. There is also a transitional problem. What about the registration? You can apply all these nuances, but 1.2 billion is just a lot of money. We should not overreact and have all kinds of views on this, but I think this is a good reason to say to the municipalities: explain for a moment! There is, in fact, a lot of explaining to local authorities, even in view of the tasks we have ahead of us. I've spoken to a lot of congregations in the last few months. Those were not the municipalities that had money left over, but often the municipalities that had deficits on their budgets. In this context, it is important that the municipalities look at the broad social domain. I've had discussions with municipalities about budget deficits for youth care. You can look at the deficits in the youth budget, but you actually have to look at the development of the budget for the social domain. At the moment, I see signs that the talks about a shortage of money are at least going to a different stage. Perhaps we can see that there is no shortage of money now and not next year, so let us talk about the quality that we want to achieve. Because there's still a lot to do. I spoke this morning with the healthcare providers, the trade unions and the municipalities to see what problems we face in terms of the labour market in care and long-term care. Municipalities and healthcare providers must make combinations. In short, it's a lot of money, but we shouldn't overreact. There are best nuances possible, but municipalities do have some explaining to do. I'm also going to sit around the table with the congregations, because I want to know better what's going on and how it's going to happen. Then, I am sure, Mrs Voortman's questions will also be raised, such as: how is it that some municipalities are left over and some of them are failing? I'm not ready to intervene at all, but I'd like to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u4	The Secretary of State says we have to look at it with nuances. Those nuances are not in the letter from Minister Plasterk that we received yesterday. It says that municipalities have more than enough. That was about 2015, of course, but in 2016 and 2017 there are even bigger cuts. Should the Secretary of State not take advantage of this moment to say that there is apparently a little money left, but that the municipalities need to get more air, so that those cuts will not become so big in 2016 and 2017 that people really have to miss their concerns? I also have a question about the quality of care. If municipalities are afraid to raise money because they fear that they will not have enough money in the coming years to carry out their task, the quality of care may be at stake, in the sense that people get less good care or no care. How does the Secretary of State see his own role when it comes to the quality of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u5	Two points. First of all, the question of this year and next year, because there are also targets. It may be that we find that municipalities have money left over. A good reason for this may be that a municipality has to save a bit for later, because more targets are coming and then you don't have to take them all at once. That's fine. If we find that there is money left, this may mean that these problems can be dealt with well. Then you don't suffer as much from the targets that are there in the years to come. I'd like to know how it happened. We must ensure that decentralisation takes place to the full. Above all, there must be discussion in the municipal councils about how the money is spent; are we too economical or are we doing well. That will continue to be the case, but I do think that municipalities have something to explain, because 1.2 billion is a lot of money. There will be a lot to do in the coming years in the areas of WMO and youth care. I do not rule on whether municipalities have enough money, but I have had a lot of conversations with municipalities that felt they had too few. That image is now turned. I believe that we must now move forward fully in order to achieve the quality of care that we all want. If there's any doubt about it in a congregation, I'll talk to that congregation about it. I've already sent that to the Chamber in a few letters. As far as I am concerned, there are three points in response to these signals. First of all, I want to know exactly what's going on. Secondly, we should not talk any more about whether there is a shortage of money, because there may seem to be money left as well. Thirdly, we must move forward fully in order to achieve the quality of care we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u6	The Secretary of State says it's okay if municipalities raise money for the next few years, but that's not good, because there are now people who are cut off from household care, youth care or other forms of care. That's not good at all. If municipalities do so, the Secretary of State must also look at themselves and ensure that municipalities have sufficient budget, including in 2016 and 2017, so that they do not have to start hoarding already. I don't agree with him on that. As regards the quality of care, the Secretary of State says that we need to discuss with each other how to ensure that it goes up. So what's the Secretary of State gonna do? Talking to each other is so vague. I would like some clarification on this. No matter how you turn it, this Secretary of State is and will remain system responsible for the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u7	Sure, but I don't have any signals yet about a budget exhaustion in 2016 and 2017. We just don't have one. We are now responding to figures for 2015. You can put all kinds of nuances in there that I put in. I told you, I'm also a nuanced person, but I think it's a lot of money. That is why I want to know more precisely why, also to know what that means for the years after that. The budgets as such are not an argument for providing good care. I would remind you of a number of debates that we have had in the Chamber. The law states what requirements the municipalities must meet. They must provide appropriate facilities. Municipalities can't say they don't have any money anymore, so they don't offer those facilities. They can't say that they have money left and that's why they're gonna do it differently. Let's not make that relationship, because it's for better and for worse. However, I would like to draw up a list of healthcare providers, trade unions and municipalities of what we have to do in the coming period, both in the field of youth and in the area of the WMO. The room is now there to have that discussion. We are no longer discussing whether we may not have enough money. That could turn out again next year and then we'll see again. Let us now make full progress with what we do achieve, namely the renewal of care as we see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u8	A number of years ago, we were having a lot of discussions here about the idea that municipalities would probably find hopeless because of the large deficits after decentralisation. That discussion may be settled now, but 1.2 billion is a lot of money. That money has gone to the municipalities, because we want the first line to be properly arranged. Close care is very important, so that people do not have to go to a specialist unnecessarily. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if he supports this line. Is he also concerned that in other areas, such as the Wlz, there may well be shortages, because municipalities do not yet take full responsibility for properly setting up the first line? If so, is he going to take us there? I welcome the fact that we are discussing it, but I would like to take more measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u9	I agree with the line. It is not for nothing that we have laid down in the law which provisions should provide municipalities for their residents who should be provided with appropriate facilities. We have made a law for this and made a budget available for it. That's what the municipalities have to do with it, for better and for worse. The question of good cooperation in the first line of action to prevent more expensive care in other areas is quite right. We have made two agreements with the municipalities. For example, we are not going to pay for this from year to year. If there is a deficit or surplus in a year, we are not going to talk about it. We'll follow how it develops. You have seen in my letter following the September circular that we have changed the starting line from this theme. We have seen that more is needed in the Wlz than in the Wmo. So we changed the starting line by transferring all the funds to it, in order to make that starting line clear. From that starting line we will look at how the question develops in the different domains and whether there will eventually be a need to adapt. There's no reason for that right now, but we'll keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u10	I am not so much concerned with the transfer of budget. The core of decentralisation, I believe, was that we would organise care close by. With 1.2 billion left in the first year I do frown my eyebrows and wonder if the municipalities are on the right track. If we are not on the right track, I think we should discuss it again as a Chamber. 'Cause we were gonna keep our finger on the wrist. In my view, 1.2 billion is a very clear signal that it may not be properly regulated yet. If that is the case, I want a commitment from the Secretary of State that we can have a debate on it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u11	That's why I said I'd like to know more about it. Again, there are all kinds of nuances to apply. So we shouldn't overreact, but it's a big amount. So municipalities have some explaining to do. I'm assuming that's what's happening. However, we have often said in debates that we should not look at it year by year, but rather a little in the long term. This decentralisation will have effects over several years. So we should not overreact, but the municipalities have some explaining to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u12	50PLUS opposed this form of decentralisation. I have just one question for the Secretary of State: isn't this the price we have to pay for decentralisation? We now have 390 savings jars instead of one administrator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u13	You're using the term "spare jars." That would not even be so bad, because that means that we have made enough money available to carry out the tasks. The essence of decentralisation is that care is organised closer to the people. This often benefits quality and therefore it can often be more efficient. I do not go so far as to say that the 1.2 billion is a sign of efficiency, because there are all kinds of nuances to be made. I just said it's a starting year. There may be some registration issues. There has been a transitional problem. So it's far too early to be able to say that. 1.2 billion is a lot of money, and that is why I want to talk to the municipalities about how this is happening, what we are learning from this and what this means for the future. We will not talk about deficits anymore, but about what we are going to do with this money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u14	I still have a supplementary question. We had one administrator; now we have 390 different administrators. Isn't there a danger in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u15	Municipalities are administrators who all have municipal councils. In it, representatives of the parties sitting in the Chamber and of local parties can watch and see how the money is spent, spent and accounted for. The democratic control of that money and the goals it is used for therefore seems to me to be adequately secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u16	Over a billion savings have been made, and now there is over a billion left, while there are still municipalities that only make simple domestic aid available to people at cost, while parents wait and wait for youth aid and people with dementia get less day care. That's all against the law. I hear the Secretary of State talking about investigations and administrative consultations. He can always tell me that beautifully. Today, I want the Secretary of State's undertaking that municipalities that do not comply with the law and care money will not be spent on care, will be tracked down and, if necessary, forced to do what is necessary, namely to care for the people who need care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u17	We have had these debates before. Municipalities should not act contrary to the law, but sometimes we suspect that this is the case. We are working on this in two ways: on the one hand, the discussion of the regulation itself and on the other hand, the implementation. When there is discussion about the regulation, we address municipalities. If the execution reveals or if there are indications that there is a breach of the law, municipalities are also called upon to do so by me. Sometimes they are flagged back by the judge; we have also had a debate on that. It is therefore not a question of acting contrary to the law, but of spending the money well and shaping the care well. Acting with the law is independent of the budget. Whether there is enough budget or not, the law should simply be implemented, with appropriate provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u18	It is good that the Secretary of State indicates a nuance, but the picture is of course very nasty, especially if you need care, you see that money remains on the shelf and you wonder why you don't get that money. The Secretary of State is gonna look into this. Can he indicate which municipalities are doing well and why? After all, they are now undergoing this transformation; that is what we often call it in policy terms. From these municipalities, the municipalities that do not use the money properly could learn how to do so. Can the Secretary of State take this into account in the inquiry he's going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u19	That is precisely the question I am interested in: what factors are at the root of any over-exhaustment and under-exhaustment? Indeed, we can learn a lot from the municipalities that are in the process of transformation. Then we can see whether it leads to a lack of budget or not. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u20	I think it would be wise for the Secretary of State to investigate, because we want to know why. There are municipalities that lack money and there are municipalities that have money left. I'd like to get a commitment from the Secretary of State. There are waiting lists for Safe Home and Child Services. Budget often plays a role in this. Can the Secretary of State talk to the relevant municipalities and the Association of Dutch Municipalities? I do not think it is possible for a municipality to have any money left while there are waiting lists. I think that money should be spent there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u21	In any case, Mrs Bergkamp expresses one of the reasons why I would like to go deeper into this. Again, there doesn't necessarily need to be a relationship between a budget deficit and the provision being made, but if there are doubts, if there are waiting lists while there is money left, one and a two. That conclusion was quickly drawn. That's why I want to know the seam of this. I will therefore indeed talk to the municipalities and providers about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u22	I think the Secretary of State could have known a lot. He is talking about nuance today, but the word nuance has been chosen very badly here. We've all been debating here. There has been more than one billion cuts in these posts, and now more than one billion more cuts have been made. We all know why: because the Secretary of State arranged in the new laws for municipalities, for example, to increase their own contribution to 100% and some municipalities did so. That is just one example of all the additional possibilities the Secretary of State created for municipalities to carry out their new tasks. And now he's talking about nuance!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u23	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u24	Does the Secretary of State realize that the dramas for all those elderly people who were cut short on their hours and all those children who are waiting for psychiatric help are the result of the letters in his laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u25	First of all, it is very doubtful whether this is caused by the higher own contributions of municipalities. Anyway, that'll turn out to be the case if we look at it further. Secondly, we have established with each other what the own contribution system is and what municipalities can or cannot ask for, given people's incomes. Parameters have been established for this purpose. So we've established a legal arrangement with each other. Municipalities have to stick to that unless they want to establish it lower. We have established here with each other what municipalities are and are not allowed. They can do something else, namely: lower if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u26	A second supplementary question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u27	You know that the nuance is far removed when it comes to these issues. As you know, municipalities like idiots have gone down with the blunt axe in the care that 30,000 lawsuits have been conducted and that the Central Board of Appeal has righted all those who appealed against the hours of care they were taken away from them. We know the kids on the waiting lists for psychiatric care. The municipalities have gone crazy and have cut twice as much as they intended. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State how he's gonna reverse this mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u28	I have just tried to answer that, but that may not satisfy Mrs Agema. Firstly, we have adopted a law with each other which states what municipalities must do in order to provide appropriate facilities. That law has established a majority of the Chamber. Secondly, a budget has been made available to the municipalities with which they have to do so. We made the agreement with the municipalities that the budget is for better and for worse. They can't say they're short and they don't do their jobs. Nor can we say: there is money left, give me that money. We did agree to follow it. So over a longer period of time, we are not just looking at how things are going for a year, so that corrections are possible. I said, with all the nuance you can put in, I think it's a lot of money, too. That's a reason for me to ask exactly what's going on. The municipalities have some explaining to do, partly in view of the huge targets we have ahead of us and what we all have to settle. Now that this has been noted, we no longer need to talk about whether there is a shortage of money. We must say that this may not be the case and that we should look at it again next year. The money must be spent on what it is intended for, namely good care for young people and the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u29	Older people who have to go to court for care, kids on the waiting list for psychiatry, caregivers who don't make it, tens of thousands fired, and then 10% left on the budget you get for it. A Secretary of State who says: I am going to look into it further, but we also need to move forward in full speed. Is it not better for him to acknowledge that he has made a big mistake about the backs of the elderly, about the backs of children and about the backs of the care workers, and that he must intervene? I call for good rates, budget tags and a return of the right to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u30	It is not for nothing that we have adopted a law, perhaps not with the support of the SP, but with the support of the majority of the Chamber, in which we have defined the tasks of the municipalities in the area of the Wmo and in the area of youth care. The budget has been made available for this purpose. We've made agreements about how we do that. We have also provided guarantees in the law for the setting of good rates by the municipalities. We have also made a commitment on this matter to the Chamber earlier, and we are going to lay down further rules for this, which are now before the Council of State for its opinion. I made arrangements with the Chamber on that. Then there's the decentralisation movement. In a couple of years, we're gonna make that move. I find it strange to say to the municipalities in the first year, in which municipalities have to look a bit at how things are going, that things are wrong. You really need to assess this in a number of years. I agree with you that 1.2 billion is a high amount. That is why, despite the fact that we have to look at this in the long term, I already want to know what's going on so that we can see what it means. What does it mean for the 16- and 17-year-olds, to whom Mrs Voortman asked, and what are we going to do now about possibly accelerating the renewal that we had in mind? That was my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u31	A second supplementary question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u32	We are not dealing here with a Secretary of State for Finance and a bureaucrat, but with a Secretary of State for Health and Welfare. He's supposed to stand up for the elderly and children in need. He's not supposed to facilitate the layoffs, but he's supposed to make sure there's jobs. The Secretary of State doesn't do that. He made a big mistake with this operation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to regulate decent rates, both in the Wmo and youth care, to assess the budgets and to reduce the right to care? We'll know that at least we're heading in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u33	We've been talking about good rates. The Court knows that an AMvB is in preparation which lays down detailed rules for the municipalities as regards tariffs. The AMvB on procurement lies with the Council of State for advice. As soon as we have received the opinion, I will make my proposal to the Chamber. In this Chamber, too, there has been talk of whether or not the budget is earmarked for the social domain. The Court's opinion stated that ear tags have a number of disadvantages. We have agreed administratively that it is in the interests of both the Empire and the municipalities to continue to use the budgets for the social domain also for the social domain. I have no reason to believe that municipalities would not reserve that money for the social domain, even now that they are talking about it. The money's not gone. I have just said that the Court of Auditors has made a number of comments on ear tags. They have led the Chamber not to decide on ear tags, but to make the administrative agreement with municipalities that the money for the social domain is preserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u34	On this point, I have also adopted a motion for a resolution. Money reserved and left for the social domain must also be spent in the social domain or remain available for it in the coming years. But I hear there are municipalities that don't do that anyway. They still spend that money on other things. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what he thinks about that and what he's going to do about it. Of course, the AMvB that regulates the rates within the Wmo is not about youth care. Does the Secretary of State think that this AMvB should be widened, so that this also applies to youth care rates from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u35	As far as I know, the Youth Act already contained a number of further safeguards regarding the rates of youth care. We also mentioned this during the preparation of the AMvB based on the Wmo. So that's what both laws say. We have agreed to make an administrative arrangement rather than an Earmark, with the aim that both parties understand the importance of the social domain being used for the social domain as well. I have not received the signals that Mrs Voortman has apparently received and which show that municipalities would not do so. But that's exactly why I'm talking to these municipalities together with the VNG, so we can look at the budgets, why they're left over and what that means.
