ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u1	I welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week, De Telegraaf's research revealed that the Dutch president of Diyanet, also a member of the Turkish Embassy, has collected information about the Gülen movement for the Turkish government. That is unacceptable and totally bizarre, out of order. Earlier, the Turkish embassy denied that this was the case. Diyanet also denied it before. Last week it came out that on the list of possible Gülen followers or sympathizers there are names of Dutch, including members of the CDA. In fact, in the report of this embassy employee, also chairman of Diyanet, the CDA was even called a Gülenbolwerk. I have referred to this as totally unacceptable before, and I repeat it here. What is currently happening in Turkey is extremely serious. More than 80,000 people have been arrested there and sometimes thrown out of office. These are civil servants, administrators, teachers and judges. Some have even been put in prison. The whole of Europe has condemned the coup attempt, but what happened afterwards is unimaginable and totally reprehensible. That's not a rule of law. In the meantime, it appears that this manhunt for Gülen people extends far beyond the Turkish borders. The Turkish government is trying to fuel Dutch democracy, in the heart of our democracy, and we cannot accept that. Last week, the CDA immediately asked if the cabinet would call the defendant to account. That's what the Secretary of State did. This morning we received a letter from the cabinet stating that the diplomat has been expelled or has returned. Anyway, that's what happened after the conversation. The Chamber has much previously been Chamberwide concerned about the mixing of mosque and is located via Diyanet. Mosques are free in the Netherlands, but we do not have the situation that governments finance churches or mosques, let alone have political influence on them. How could it have happened at all, I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, that someone who is accredited to an embassy in the Netherlands is also chairman of a mosque association? Was that known in advance? Has the Netherlands always been okay with that? My second question to the Foreign Minister is whether the Netherlands accepts that such a situation will continue in the future. Isn't it naive to think that someone who wears a double hat can separate those two cases? So, I also say to the Minister of Integration, will integration become more difficult rather than easier if the Turkish government can apparently break into Dutch democracy through the embassy so directly? My own party has been mentioned, but it's also about mosques. This is at odds with the separation of Church and State. We also see that it leads to tension in society. That is why the CDA of the Cabinet would like the undertaking that the new President of Diyanet, when it comes, will not also be able to obtain diplomatic status. Surely such a person can't travel through the Netherlands with a CD number plate and diplomatic passport? Either you work for a religious organization, or you work for an embassy. Meanwhile, imams of Diyanet are still trained, appointed and paid by the Turkish Ministry of Religion, which is directly under the Erdogan government. We know them mainly by polarization and not by bringing people together. During the General Reviews, the Chamber adopted a motion from me to end direct financing of Diyanet by the Turkish Government, precisely in view of what has happened. Why should it take so long, until February, before we get an answer? It is important that the Court should be able to discuss this matter once and for all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u3	Here the issue of foreign interference by Diyanet is rightly being made. As far as we are concerned, Diyanet should not have any influence on the situation in the Netherlands. However, I find it quite appalling that the CDA is making this point. After all, the CDA visited Diyanet a year and a half ago asking what the wishes and needs of Turks in the Netherlands were according to Diyanet in the Netherlands. After that, the CDA even stopped by the AK party, Erdogan's office, with the same question. What the hell is the CDA doing right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u4	I can say two things about this. I've been to Diyanet myself and...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u5	You may not, but the CDA does and you speak on behalf of the CDA, so I'm asking what the CDA is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u6	I think you just heard my answer wrong. I didn't say I wasn't at Diyanet, I said I was at Diyanet myself. It's not that crazy. In fact, we've been there with a parliamentary delegation. That is my first point. My second point is that groups from the CDA organise travel. They have been in Turkey and Morocco, for example, and I believe that China is on the agenda. Each time it is ensured that there is a dialogue with representatives of government parties as well as with others. I am not planning that myself, but I must say that I am glad to be a member of a political party that does so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u7	I find it really bizarre that the CDA is making such a fuss about this right now, while it is now asking Diyanet to do so; that is the point; that you are visiting, I find bizarre, but you should know for yourself what the needs and wishes of Turks are in the Netherlands. That is what the CDA is doing, and now you say that it is unacceptable that Diyanet's interference in Dutch politics exists. You fully contribute to this by constantly asking what the wishes and needs of Turks in the Netherlands are according to Diyanet and now you are making a fuss about this and ask how. Yes, it's because of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u8	Of course, we can make it all crazier, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u9	I think it's crazy enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr Van Klaveren, you do not have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u11	It gets weirder when I interpret what you want with all this nonsense. I stand that I may not be the leader of a party, but I am not afraid to go to Diyanet myself and ask the questions I myself have. Besides, it's not about what question you ask, it's about what you do with the answer. Members of the entire CDA have been there, and I'd like to see that. I'm proud that they do; they should do that more often. I will tell you one thing: I am the political leader of the CDA and I do not accept interference from anyone. This is the CDA. That's an open party and I'm glad she's organizing foreign travel. You are welcome to join us as a member.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u12	Again, it is simply bizarre that you are making such a fuss about this interference, which I find completely ridiculous. Even a candidate for the European Parliament asks, on behalf of the CDA, what the needs of Turks in the Netherlands are according to Diyanet. You ask Diyanet what the needs of Turks in the Netherlands are. That's what the CDA does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u13	That question is completely normal, isn't it? It's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u14	No, he's crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u15	It's what you do with the answer. If you want to sit in a small ivory turret in the corner, don't want to talk to anyone and don't want to ask questions, you should. We do ask these questions and we deal with what we do when we hear the answer. I myself, with a parliamentary delegation, have spoken with the dg of Diyanet so called, and I must say that I have become a lot wiser. I also asked what Diyanet is doing in the Netherlands and how funding is going. I have asked all these questions and I have come to one conclusion: this is not the system we need. However, I did not draw that conclusion until after I had spoken with them and not from the Chamber benches here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u16	I'm gonna get on with this. A former chairman of the CDA in Apeldoorn was a member of the Board of Diyanet. In fact, he was chairman of the Ibn Ghaldoun school community, known for the exam fraud and now closed. That's the same man who said that women commit a sin if they don't wear headscarf. Then we have a Venless councilman, with head cloth, who is affiliated to Diyanet on behalf of the CDA as youth coordinator for the region. All this is allowed in the Netherlands. Mr Buma has just argued that. Excuse me, his name is Van Haersma Buma and we have to pronounce that name completely; that is so neat. Fortunately, everyone can join a political party. Is Mr Van Haersma Buma aware of what influences he brings in his own party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u17	There is one difference, well, there are more differences between your party and mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u18	I'm glad you did!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u19	I'm glad you did! I'd like members of the CDA to be active. That could be at churches, mosques or something else. I therefore welcome that. There's one very hard line: that's outside influence. Never! And I'll keep an eye on that. I must say that I always find it more enjoyable than the PVV's who radicalize themselves a little later, join an Islamic party and say the most bizarre things here in The Hague. I'd much rather I know the people, that they're members of the CDA. And, you know, I like to visit mosques, because I want to know what's alive. I don't know if you've ever visited mosques, but I'm going there and I want to know what's going on. Only if we go there, only if we go to Turkey and other countries, will we hear it. I'll draw a conclusion. And that conclusion is this one. That's what I told Diyanet. It is not possible for a government organization in Turkey to finance mosques here. That has to end and I have tabled a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u20	I have three points. Point 1. I personally kicked out the person Mr Van Haersma Buma is talking about before he actually took that step. So that's the way you're supposed to deal with a party. Before those influences are discussed, you have to make sure that you remove those influences. I can give that to Mr Van Haersma Buma. Point 2. I'll never take my shoes off. I'll never walk into my socks and I'll never bow down to Islam. So I will not visit a mosque, except the one in Córdoba to visit the beautiful cathedral that was built there. Then you have to walk through a mosque. That is the only function I would like to attribute to it. I also have a point 3, because I have received a lot of answers to only one question. Mr Van Haersma Buma is naive. He can talk to Diyanet, but meanwhile there are people from Diyanet within his own party who also have influence in that party. Then he can say, "I'll keep an eye on that." But what does such a person do as a youth coordinator? What does such a man do when he says that women who do not wear headscarf commit a grievous sin? That person is also distinguished royally for that. It is a person who closes a school like Ibn Ghaldoun because of exam fraud! President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Those influences are already there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u21	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u22	These influences not only split the Netherlands, but they also split the CDA. They threaten security and public order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u23	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u24	My question is: does Mr Van Haersma Buma of the CDA, after all these things I have told you, still not know that he has brought in Troy's horse?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u25	In my opinion, Mr De Graaf would be a very good successor to the Turkish embassy worker who has just been deported. He's doing exactly the same thing as the Turkish government. What he's doing is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u26	I want to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u27	You'll have the opportunity in a moment. Mr Buma was not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u28	I'm just still working on my way. I mean, relax! I'm saying you're doing exactly the same thing as that Turkish employee at the embassy. You're not looking at the question. Another party is about its own members. We do not ask if members are members of anything else. Natural monuments, Greenpeace, it's okay. There is one thing: you are a member of a political party that draws its own line. You don't have any members. I don't think that's democratic, I don't even think that's possible. But you choose to do so. I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u29	No, no. Mr. Buma, finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u30	Yeah, I'll finish my sentence. That's better. Mr De Graaf has chosen to do so. I choose to have members. In fact, I think it's important that these people are active. I don't make a distinction based on people's beliefs. I won't. I do ask people to focus on Dutch society, to integrate here and do the work here. And that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u31	I would like to say two more things. I have one more personal point and I would like to comment first. I understand the interruptions are allowed in threes. The naivety of Mr Van Haersma Buma I was talking about is now paying off. It was the CDA itself that called in 2008 to deny Fethullah Gülen access to the Netherlands. So he's doing the same thing as Erdogan. The CDA is on the same line as Erdogan. In fact, they're bringing in the erdogans themselves. So do not accuse me of this in all your naivety, I say to Mr Van Haersma Buma. I have a second point, but you know what: the personal point, I have already made it in an interruption and have therefore closed my interruption. Behind the chair is Erdogan's employee, not here!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u32	I think it would be more useful if we, as a Chamber, jointly showed that the Dutch parliament simply does not accept that the Turkish government is infiltrating or influencing any of the Dutch political parties. That's what I'm standing here for. Let us be glad that we also have a number of political parties in the Netherlands which do have members and whose members dare to enter a mosque. My point is that it is better to talk with Muslims than other Muslims.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Buma said, last week the message came out that the chairman of the mosque dome Diyanet in the Netherlands passed on names of alleged Gülensympathisants, including CDA members, to the Erdogan regime. The existence of such a list of Gülensympathisants was previously always denied, but in the meantime this chairman has confirmed to De Telegraaf that he played the names from his position at the Turkish embassy in the Netherlands. That is a matter of great concern to the VVD, for two reasons. For example, it is worrying that Turkey's influence in our country is so far-reaching. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is unacceptable to pass on information about residents of our country, but also to interfere in our political system by making a political party suspicious. But there's a concern behind it. We want people who live here, with whatever background, to stand with two legs in our society and not with one leg in the country of origin. The images of Dutch people with a Turkish background on the Erasmus Bridge this summer are still fresh in our memory. They are born Dutch, whose loyalty lies in Turkey. They're loyal to their leader, Erdogan. The long arm of Ankara has a part of the Dutch with a Turkish background firmly in its grip and one openly conducts a diaspora policy, because one considers Dutch people with a Turkish background as Turks. The arrival of people with different cultural standards and values causes people to worry about the future of our country. The last thing we are waiting for is that these people remain connected to countries of origin, or to their parents' countries, and are almost forced to do so by organisations that are in direct contact with the country of origin. It is not for nothing that I have called on the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, responsible for integration, to stop sitting around the table with the traditional Turkish-Dutch organisations which in no way envisage the integration of Turks into the Netherlands. I would like to ask the Minister again how he is dealing with organisations that focus mainly on Turkish values and their strengthening. After all, the majority of the Dutch with a Turkish background is not an active member of this kind of organisation and looks with just as much surprise and discomfort at the tensions that the long arm of Turkey creates. These are the people you want as a government close to you. It is high time that this cabinet developed a strategy, a so-called counter-strategy, to loosen up Dutch people with a Turkish background who are still in Ankara's grip. I have already urged the Minister to do so. Fortunately, through the transmission of the President of Diyanet, a first step has now been taken. I thank the Cabinet for this commitment, but we are far from there. What is the state of play with regard to the implementation of the motion on a counter-strategy? What to do with Diyanet now? Isn't this a foreign intelligence agency rather than a religious organization? Shouldn't we fight them hard instead of, as the letter describes, looking together with them to see how the mixing of rollers can be prevented? Isn't that a rather naive thought when we look at developments in Turkey, where is it and religion more and more mixed? Reports like last week show once again that we should not be naive. We won't tolerate Ankara's long arm. If you identify with Turkey and not with the Netherlands, you should be in Turkey and not here. Let Ankara focus on the inhabitants of its own country instead of interfering with our inhabitants. Finally. Minister Koenders has now discussed this with the Turkish temporary agent, as we read in the letter. Can he tell us how he reacted to this? Will this also have consequences for him if the President of Diyanet indicates that he did so as a result of his duties at the embassy? How did the Turkish embassy react?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr. Chairman. Last week it was announced that the President of Diyanet in the Netherlands, a man who is also an attaché of the Turkish government in the Netherlands, has passed on information about alleged Gülenaanhangers to Turkey. Unfortunately, this kind of practice is nothing new under the sun, but for the SP group it is a new low in a long series of government interferences from Turkey towards Turkish Dutch people. The Netherlands does not seem unique in this. I ask the cabinet whether it is true that this is also happening in 37 other countries, including Belgium and Germany. How does the Cabinet feel about this? During the hearing with Turkish organisations, which we held in October, Diyanet claimed that in her organisation and mosques there is no political activity and that she does not engage in intimidation and clicking. These words are in no way consistent with the activities of the President of Diyanet, who deliberately passed on information to Turkey, in order to help Turkey in its great witch hunt. We have now learned that the President of Diyanet has been withdrawn from the Netherlands and that an internal investigation has been initiated. That is sensible, of course, but does the cabinet recognise that the President of Diyanet has crossed a line? In a recent press statement, Diyanet stated that it is not allowed for its employees to collect information about persons. But that is contrary to a recent publication by the Turkish Department of Faith, which literally states that information is being sought on the activities of opponents of the Turkish Government in Europe. Is the cabinet aware of this publication? Is the cabinet finally prepared to acknowledge that Diyanet does not only fulfil a religious function but also a political function? What are the consequences and lessons learned from this? When will the money flows from abroad finally be stopped at prayer houses? On September 20, Diyanet-related religious institutions in Belgium received a letter calling for detailed reports from organisations such as NGOs and charities associated with Gülen or other opponents of the Turkish government. What is the government's reaction to this? Have such letters also been sent to Dutch institutions? Has there been contact with other countries about this kind of espionage practices? Why do we have to read these messages over and over in the paper, when the cabinet says it's up here? The cabinet had talks with the President of Diyanet and the Turkish Ambassador. We look forward to seeing what has come out of it. Does Diyanet distance herself or does she persist in denying what she has done so far? I'm assuming it's not just conversations. I also assume that the intelligence services are doing their job and that they know what is happening inside Diyanet and the mosques. Can the cabinet confirm that? How is the cabinet finally going to break with the long arm of Ankara? Why the constant hesitation? How is the cabinet going to stop the culture of clicking and intimidation that penetrates Dutch society from abroad? I would like a response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u35	Mr. Chairman. To immediately fall into the house: Diyanet must close, as well as all 145 mosques connected to Diyanet and other related foundations. In the meantime, we know that Diyanet is the Turkish Presidency or Directorate for Faith and is directly subject to Sultan Erdogan. Erdogan doesn't like democracy. He only wants Islamization, in Turkey but also through his satellites here in the Netherlands. Fethullah Gülen is his former ally. He also wants Islamization. He wants the same thing. He calls on his supporters to infiltrate all levels of government in the country where they are and above all remain invisible until all centres of power are reached. A year and a half ago, the CDA was absent from the Gülen debate. Both gentlemen's politics are equally reprehensible. The difference is that you usually know what Erdogan can do. Gülen's sneaking it all out. Erdoganists, gülenists, Milli Görüs, Süleymanci; the elite actively brought them to the Netherlands. All these parties are fighting for Islamization, and most of all they are fighting with each other. But Minister Asscher sees them all as his allies and invites them in the Knight's Room to have tea together and talk together about a smooth transition to an Islamic Netherlands. That's how it goes here. The list of problems we have imported from Turkey is too long to mention in four minutes. But just look at Erdogan's influence in senior year. Let us all realise that 70% of the Dutch Turks are voting for him. We have a Turkish problem in the Netherlands. Do both ministers share this view? Do they share the view that the problem of Turkey also causes a large part of the problem of Islam in the Netherlands? If not, why not? The PvdA already had its own Turkey problem and is so slowly going down. The CDA, the applicant for the debate, has also been actively recruiting members and representatives from the Turkish community in the Netherlands for many years. We have just talked about this: it can be done in the Netherlands. But do you know what kind of influences you get? That's what I just wanted to make clear. What influences are you bringing in? Perhaps the CDA, in all its naivety, was working on its own Turkey problem. If you at the CDA deny the Armenian genocide, if you think women should wear headscarves because otherwise they commit a sin, if you are a board member at Diyanet Netherlands and at Ibn Ghaldoun, you will indeed be party chairman. If you walk down the door at Diyanet Turkey and the AK party, you will be chairman of Colorful CDA. In fact, if you are chairman or member of a youth committee of Diyanet in the Netherlands and organise activities in that organisation, you become a council member. The lamentation, the lamentation and the wailing of the CDA is therefore partly justified, because it is not good what happened there. We are clearly in agreement on this. There must be no interference and that is why Diyanet must close. But if the CDA itself does nothing to exclude those influences, the whimpering and lamentation is nothing but the pursuit of wind. General and final: anyone who thinks that Christianity can live together with Islam without conditions is naive. Those who refuse to see that their own party, for example the PvdA, has been hollowed out by the Turkish-Islamic horse of Troy, and then the others take the measure, are blind to reality. Those who think that tolerance is ultimately, in the long term, resistant to intolerance, may now be called insane. To all parties with their own Turkey problem I say: if you want to exclude those influences, you have to clean up your own party. As long as you don't, you're part of the problem and you're never the solution. I would like to say to the ministers present that I am pleased that the President of Diyanet has returned to Turkey. Very nice; a good result. But that of course does not solve the problem, because the successor is also there on behalf of Erdogan. If you send a bear away, you'll meet a tiger. Maybe that's twice as bad. So there should be no successor at all, is our advice. I repeat what I said at the beginning: Diyanet and all the 145 mosques must be closed. Only then will the Rutte/Asscher cabinet address the Turkish problem of our country. Are both gentlemen prepared to take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u36	Intolerance is preached here, intolerance, closing mosques. Does Mr De Graaf agree with me that he is speaking exactly the same language as they do in some conservative-Islamic countries, albeit in the opposite direction, and that he is reducing himself to exactly the same approach to the reality that we do not want? Intolerance, intolerance, let us go to life: that is what Mr De Graaf preaches here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr Grashoff is incredibly naive. He should be a little embarrassed and back in the books to learn a little better how the world works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr De Graaf can bark and yell even harder and you name it, but I think we have some values to defend here in this country. The PVV sometimes calls that the Jewish-Christian tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u39	Yeah, and it's beautiful!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u40	That was one of tolerance and of making sure you live together. The vast majority of Islamists want that too, but of course Mr De Graaf does not want to hear that. Intolerance, that's what the PVV is preaching here. That is the worst answer to any problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u41	I do not repeat my first answer, although I would like to do so, because Mr Grashoff does not know what he is talking about. Then you shouldn't be interrupting like that. We are always critical of Islam and yes, we are intolerant of Islam. Mr Grashoff cannot let go of that link. He thinks that's too hard, I get that. Everyone has their limitations and Mr Grashoff has them. But don't make such a stupid interruption, because no one understands him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr. De Graaf, everyone's free to interrupt. Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u43	If the PVV wants to fight radical Islam, I would say: look in the mirror, because the most radical imam in this room is Mr De Graaf. Listen to yourself and read back what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u44	Yeah, and that's what a man from Afghanistan says, Chairman. It is unbelievable that this language comes from him! I look in the mirror every morning with great pleasure, because if you don't love yourself, you can't love others either. I am not a narcissist, and I leave that to the rest of the House for a certain degree. This, too, is a very stupid interruption. What kind of radical Imam De Graaf? That's bullshit! The one who wants radical Islam... Besides, the radical Islam? It is one Islam, and Mr Bashir should know that very well. But it is now shining from narcissism. He loves that. He wants the Netherlands to Islamise and I want to stop it, and I am proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u45	Mr De Graaf has all kinds of wise advice for the CDA to avoid wrong influences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u46	Do something with it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u47	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u48	I said do something with that yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u49	Maybe we should. That's why I want to see if I can learn anything from the PVV, because what is the way the PVV prevents it? In other words, is that perhaps the reason why the PVV doesn't have any members at all, to prevent wrong members from coming in? And if not, what is the reason why the PVV doesn't have any members at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u50	I do not think that is the subject of the debate here, but Mr Van Meenen can ask that question. In any case, I am very satisfied with the party structure we have. D66 has fewer members than the Donald Duck, the CDA has fewer members than the Margriet, the PvdA has far fewer members than the Libelle and GroenLinks has fewer members than the Road Guard. The number of members of political parties in the Netherlands is so small that it is not even visible, and that is what Mr Van Meenen calls democracy. Fortunately, we are talking to many more people than D66 members and let us continue working on all these influences. That's a great model.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u51	The debate is starting to derail a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u52	This is relevant, because it is very clear to parties that have said: you must be extremely careful who you bring in. That is said by a party that has exactly one member; that is less members than my family has, to name but a few. I think it is extremely good that the PVV can speak to more people than the 25,000 members of D66 and those numerous council members in all those municipalities. The handful of people the PVV claims to be here in the representative bodies, apparently, can do all that. My question is and remains: how does Mr De Graaf manage to lecture parties with internal democracy on who they all bring in? Everything we have seen so far, what the PVV has brought in and brought in here, is certainly not an invitation to opt for such a structure as the PVV has, I would say. So my question remains: why does the Party for Freedom not choose democracy in its own ranks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u53	Whosoever is without sin, cast the first stone. D66 isn't completely clean either. They even had a Member of Parliament with a debt of a ton of taxes and refused to pay. The MP's gone by now. So that's not very nice either. There's someone in there, too... don't let me mention that, because that's not neat. Taking the measure and reading the lesson, I am fine with what Mr Van Meenen says, but what he shows is D66's problem. Mr Van Meenen says: you can only talk to people who are members of your party. So those blinders are very tight. I will repeat what he just said: how can the PVV speak to several people then only with the only member? That's a very insane thought, isn't it? We can talk to more people than D66 has members. Mr Van Meenen finds that strange. I'd say go out on the street and talk to people, go into the pub and talk to people. Maybe D66 will take a slightly different course instead of just speaking to its own members and in that bubble, with that glass of champagne and that fat cigar pursuing an elitist world view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u54	Listening is not Mr De Graaf's strong suit. I have said that it is much easier with 25,000 Members to talk to a lot of people in this country, including all those people who are not members of D66. With a handful of people, that seems particularly difficult to me. Nor does Mr De Graaf. It's an illusion that the PVV talks so much to people. The PVV talks a lot about people, but not people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u55	D66 has done everything possible to eliminate God from society and is now playing for God himself, because Mr Van Meenen thinks he knows how many people we can speak and what we can do in our spare time or political time. "It is an illusion to think that Mr. De Graaf is speaking to people." That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u56	I've only heard most of it, but I still have a question. Mr. De Graaf presents himself as a guardian of Christianity and accuses D66 of banishing God from society. I'm also critical of D66, but his power is smaller than that, I can tell you. My strongest question, my main question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u57	Strongest?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u58	You're busy today. Oh, boy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u59	I'm a good listener. Contrary to what Mr Van Meenen has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u60	My main question is this. Are you saying I stand up for Christianity in the Netherlands? You all have views on that. The Netherlands is a Christian country. Or do you say: the Netherlands is a secular country? What exactly is your country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u61	Nice of the CDA to come up with this. The PVV has been fighting against the false prophet and false prophecy all along. I think that article has once been banned from the Dutch creed. However, we continue to fight against the false prophet and against the false prophecies. Now the one who we give all the space to confess Christianity with his Christian party in the Netherlands wants to take the measure of me and the PVV because we would do the wrong thing. We'll get you the chestnuts out of the fire. We fight for the Jewish-Christian traditions, values and norms, from which the laws come from below. The CDA does the opposite by hanging on to the EU and leaving Islam within its gates, including within its own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u62	I am glad that I asked this question, because this makes it a little clearer. But Mr De Graaf must realize that I am still bouncing when he talks about "we," "you Christians" and "they," with whom I think "the adversary," the Muslims, were meant. There's not much left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u63	I did not say that Muslims are our opponents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u64	Okay. You said you were intolerant. That's what I'm comparing to that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u65	Well, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u66	If you know so much about Christianity, there are two possibilities. If you say that we are a Christian country, I tell you quite honestly that a Christian country also thinks of others. If you say that we are not a Christian country, that is your standard, but I am not going to let you say that you decide what Christianity is and what the Jewish Christian tradition is. After all, that Christian tradition is well aware that you can also be underneath. We cannot allow that to happen in this country. The way you speak leads to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u67	This is a total reversal of business. I understand the panic, the anger and the emotion with Mr. Van Haersma Buma. He said his question was a strong question, but it wasn't that strong; I actually thought the question was rather weak. That's where he loses his sobriety. Let us preserve this sobriety in order to ensure that we, as a country with Jewish Christian roots, traditions and values, are not lost. We are precisely the ones who are responsible for this and who are protecting the Netherlands and also the CDA. Mr Van Haersma Buma and his entire CDA should thank the PVV on his bare knees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr. Chairman. We are holding this debate in order to protect the Turkish-Dutch community from intimidation by the Turkish authorities. We want the Turkish Dutch to be well and feel safe and participate in our society. That is why it is important that our government sets the standard firmly vis-à-vis Turkey and the Turkish-Dutch community: stop stoking and stand up for the freedom of your neighbor. That's the basis and that's what the government does. While last week the Minister of Foreign Affairs summoned the defendant, the administration of Diyanet was received at the Ministry of Social Affairs for a serious discussion for clarification and disapproval. It is good that Turkey has recalled the relevant attaché. That is a good result for our ministers. My compliments to the Secretary of State. The Turkish intervention is unacceptable. Calling the CDA Gülenbolwerk is unacceptable. Double functions in politics and religion at Diyanet are highly undesirable. I would like to hear from the leaders what they can do about it. That standard stands. Next, it is important to encourage the Turkish Dutch to stand up for each other and protect each other. I have the impression that's how this works. That's necessary, because I see a lot of fear. I have been seeing scare reactions about the Turkish government for a long time, but since the failed coup people have been in real danger since Turkey locked up no less than 125,000 alleged Gülensympathisants, besides military, especially many scientists, lawyers, journalists, civil servants and teachers. In that setting Turkish Dutch show me their cell phones, which are flooded with suspicions and threats. Especially because of their children, broken friendships and half-empty school classes, they are concerned and also because of clicklines, boycotts and destruction. That is why we are holding this debate to ensure that they too can do what they are on earth: to help the world forward. I have good hope that the combination of normalizing and connecting makes the community resilient. That's how I spoke yesterday to board members of Diyanet who had invited us weeks ago. They told me how they work towards a board without double functions with space for a new generation of young imams, raised in the Netherlands. I have called on Diyanet to become part of the solution and not of the problem; a message that the Moroccan-Dutch community trusts in the ears sounds out of my mouth. This resilience shows the Turkish-Dutch young people we already know from the Turkish-Dutch Countersound and who are strongly committed to typical youth problems in the Netherlands without hiding behind the walls of the columns. This way they can correct each other, including on the Internet, and make a fist against intimidation and for freedom. For such movements, I would like to take up the pressure from Turkey. Of course, I would like to hear exactly what happened at the information gathering by the Turkish attaché, but in advance I would ask the ministers about the wise line of the government, about the combination of standards against Turkish smoking and nutrition for the Turkish-Dutch community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mr. Chairman. The Turkish influence in our country seems to increase by the day. Unfortunately, this weak cabinet is unable to break Erdogan's long arm. Again, names of possible Dutch Gülensympathizers have been passed on to Ankara, now by the President of Diyanet, also working at the Turkish embassy. The Turkish government continues to burn in Dutch relations. This intimidation and espionage is unacceptable. The cabinet must finally abandon its naive attitude and act. In concrete terms, we propose to end the Turkish financing of mosques in the Netherlands, take away the anbi-status from ISN Diyanet, and, now that their chairman is already gone, send home the Turkish ambassador. We are talking about espionage. Of course, the huge criticism of Turkey is justified, but the fact that it is the CDA that comes with it is astonishing. Less than a year and a half ago, the party visited Diyanet in Turkey. The CDA then asked about the needs and wishes of Diyanet for the Turks in the Netherlands. It's like that's what Diyanet's all about. The CDA also had an appointment with the AK Party of Erdogan. It shouldn't be much crazier. The CDA does not want any interference from Diyanet, but asks the same Diyanet for advice. The CDA's criticism is therefore hypocritical. Since the coup, more than 125,000 soldiers, judges and journalists have been fired or imprisoned in Turkey by dictator Erdogan. It is a true witch hunt and it is easy to understand that many Turkish Dutch feel threatened here. The cabinet always indicated that people should report it. I'd like to hear how many declarations have been made so far. How many formal charges are there? Have any cases been brought to justice? Have any punishments been handed out yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u70	Mr. Chairman. The president of the mosque dome Diyanet appears to have passed on to the Turkish government names of Dutch Gülensympathisants. Where the allegations were first denied, it was later admitted that this information was collected and passed on. The so-called long arm of Ankara now seems to be a long telescope: so into the living rooms. It is therefore a good thing that Minister Koenders has responded directly to this by calling on the Turkish ambassador. I understand from the coverage that the embassy was also embarrassed by the diplomat's action. Is this true? Is the Minister getting the impression that the President of Diyanet operated on his own, or is it wider and is there more? What instruments does the Minister have to ensure that this was never again? Is Dyanet an exception? I hope so. Or does the Minister have any indication that there is more of these organisations located in the Netherlands that collects information for their own country? How is this handled? D66 welcomes the words spoken by Secretary of State Klijnsma in the absence of Minister Asscher about the importance of making a declaration. In the Netherlands, no one should feel threatened by intimidation by a foreign regime. Were there any reports made? Do people feel safe enough to press charges? Is it still true that people who feel threatened can make use of the possibility of making cover-up reports as is the case in sex cases? My colleague, Mr Buma, said in the press that the Turkish government cannot incite Dutch democracy. I agree wholeheartedly with those words, and I would like to go even further by saying that no one can stir up Dutch democracy. I have this in my text today, but one of those two parties is unfortunately not there, because that party has no word today; you probably understand which one I mean as well as are guilty of ratting out Dutch people, for example by listing people who want to help refugees to tweet around and placing judges on "the wrong side of history'. That is a flagrant attack on Dutch values and traditions since 1848. With this, the PVV attacks the Netherlands in the heart. Sometimes this happens with videos to post online of parliamentarians' voting behaviour, accompanied by a disapproving commentary. In "mine" the Netherlands, the Netherlands that favors D66, we do not do so. In the Netherlands of D66 we don't snitch and threaten each other and we don't go to each other's lives. D66 wants to build a society in which we trust each other again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr. Chairman. Last week it turned out that the President of Diyanet was also working at the Turkish embassy, passing information on Turkish Dutch people to Ankara. That is unacceptable in the eyes of GroenLinks and many have said the same to me. This needs to be addressed and, fortunately, the Minister has taken action on this. This kind of information is at the basis of exclusion, intimidation and threat to those who think otherwise, such as alleged supporters of Gülen. All the reason for the Netherlands to act hard against this. It is good that action has been taken. It is good that this gentleman has since left for Turkey, but this raises the question as to whether this was an entirely independent decision of the embassy or whether there has been any need for a gentle urge. I would like to hear an answer from the Minister. It is good that Dyanet is now going to do internal research itself to answer the question of how this could happen. However, I can also imagine that this double hat did not come as a surprise for those involved. But once again, my group is interested in the answer to the question of what appropriate measures this organisation is going to take. Does the Minister know when it will be expected and can he inform us in due course, preferably as soon as possible? Dutch citizens have the right to protection. Turkish Dutch are Dutch citizens and therefore have the right to be protected against violations of their privacy. They are "our" Turkish Dutch who deserve this protection against Erdogan's regime. The Chamber adopted a motion aimed at developing a counter-strategy on Turkey's diaspora policy of the Erdogan regime. We understand there will be a letter in February. I think that is a good thing, but I would ask the government to send that letter at the beginning of February so that we can talk about this before the elections take place. Do we know enough now? Does the government know enough about how that works with that subtle long arm of Ankara? Are we looking into that in a good way now? Could it be and is it the case that we will have an answer in that letter in February on the actual issue? If we know well enough, I ask the ministers. Recent SCP research shows that Turkish Dutch feel strongly connected with Turkey, but that is not so much the problem. The problem is that only 41% feel stronger in the Netherlands. With connection to the country you come from or where your parents or grandparents come from, nothing is wrong, but not feeling connected to the country where your day lives and works in, day out, is not good. If you want to find an answer to Turkey's diaspora policy, that will have to be a two-track policy. On the one hand, it will have to stop the unwanted interference from Ankara, but on the other hand it will have to ensure that Turkish Dutch people also feel more Dutch without questioning their affinity with Turkey. They must feel at home here. They have to belong here. They have to have equal opportunities here. That's important. Can the cabinet go into this further and can we expect that this two-track policy will be recognised in the strategy that emerges in the letter? Okay, here's what I'm gonna say. If we want to deal with Islam in an adult way in the Netherlands, it is important that there are imam-training courses in the Netherlands as well. It's been tried in the past. That didn't work. We should try that again. Only then can you shape freedom of religion and integration in Dutch society in a good way. We have publicly funded preacher training. Why don't we know them for imams? This should be possible in the pluralistic Netherlands. The question to the Minister for Social Affairs is: can he speed up and ensure that such training is resumed at Dutch university institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u72	I see that the rulers can answer directly. I shall first give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u73	Madam President. I thank the Chamber for the first-term questions. Turkey has rightly been at the centre of political interest, both in the Chamber and in the Cabinet, for a long time. Since the failed coup attempt on 15 July, this attention has only increased further. The coup attempt and its aftermath, also here in the Netherlands, keep us intensively occupied to this day. The coup attempt of 15 July was a serious attack on democracy and the rule of law in Turkey. That remains the case, no matter what we think of developments in Turkey since then. Turkey places responsibility for this with Gülen and his movement and describes it as a terrorist organisation. On this basis, arrests are made and large numbers of officials are removed from office, including those democratically elected. The cabinet is deeply concerned about the way in which this process deals with the rule of law and the responsibilities that Turkey has assumed in the framework of, for example, the Council of Europe. We have discussed this together, including with your colleagues on the Foreign Affairs Committee, on a number of occasions. We usually agree on the analysis and often on the direction. Today, as before, on 13 September, we are discussing an important issue, namely the effects of this failed coup attempt in the Netherlands. Mr Marcouch rightly said that officials, teachers, children and Turkish Dutch people should be able to feel safe in our country. This means that we do not find it acceptable if there are signs, proofs or indications of an export of the problem in Turkey to the Netherlands. In the debate, the cabinet has previously clearly stated that it does not serve Turkish interference in Dutch internal affairs and Turkish interference with the personal freedom of our citizens, in particular the Turkish community. When the Cabinet finds such unwanted interference........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the same debate and the letter that preceded it, we also indicated that the mere fact, let alone the suspicion that a social organisation or person has links with the Gülen movement, is no reason for the Netherlands to act. We do not know any "guilt by association" in the Netherlands. Moreover, unlike Turkey, we do not see the Gülen movement as a terrorist organisation as long as the clear and convincing evidence in cases has not been provided. It is therefore not a question of branding Dutch and Dutch organisations as terrorists on the basis of lists circulating on the Internet. As I said, our policy is clear. There can be no interference in the Turkish community in the Netherlands: the insecurity we were talking about, or the export of tensions in Turkey to the Netherlands. We consistently address this issue to Turkey. The Turkish authorities must refrain from interfering with the choices made by Dutch citizens. It is well known that we have raised this issue on a number of occasions. I mention, for example, the familiar, tragic case of the click line of the Consulate General of the Republic of Turkey in Rotterdam. Last week it became clear that reports were made to Ankara on alleged ties of Dutch people with the Gülen movement. Those reports were sent by a person with two functions. It concerns Mr. Acar, who is both attaché religious matters and formally he is vice-consul at the consulate in Deventer as head of Diyanet in the Netherlands, formally known as the Islamic Foundation Netherlands. Mr. Acar says he sent this information from his attaché position. However, he sent that information at the request of and to Diyanet Ankara. It is therefore difficult to separate this action from his second function, head of Diyanet Netherlands. The fact that this is complex and sensitive is also evident from the letter sent by the Islamic Foundation Netherlands to the group chairmen of the House of Representatives. My colleague Asscher will discuss this further. That it does not suit a head of Diyanet to send such information to Ankara is not only the opinion of the cabinet, but also of the Islamic Foundation Netherlands, according to that letter. The head of Diyanet should confine himself to religious matters. I trust that the announced internal discussions will change this. I'll get back to you on this. Attachés may collect information in the Netherlands and send it to their capital, but of course there are limits. The cabinet considers that, in the case of Mr Acar's reporting to Ankara, a clear border has been crossed. As Mr Acar himself pointed out in the article in De Telegraaf, he passed on information to the Turkish authorities about persons and organisations associated with Gülen in the Netherlands. As far as we are concerned, this is a form of unwanted and unacceptable interference in the lives of Dutch citizens. It is also totally unacceptable for a Dutch political party to be branded as a Gülenbolwerk. I can therefore very well understand the indignation at the CDA about the statements made by the President of Diyanet in the article in De Telegraaf. This was a reason for the cabinet to intervene. As is well known, last Wednesday Turkey's temporary agent was immediately summoned. To the Turkish temporary agent, the great concerns about the coverage in De Telegraaf and the statements and activities of Mr Acar have been transferred. We have strongly condemned the fact that Mr Acar, who formally has the diplomatic status as Deputy Consul of the Turkish Consulate, reports to Ankara on Dutch citizens, organisations and politicians who would be affiliated to Gülen. There was also a very strong condemnation of the statements on the CDA. This directly affects the integrity of Dutch politics. From his role as attaché religious matters, Mr Acar's actions are not acceptable because he interferes in Dutch domestic affairs and in the personal freedoms and security of Dutch citizens, in particular the Turkish-Dutch community. In addition, he has entered outside the international treaty-law mandate of consulates-general. We have clearly stated that these events are not acceptable to the cabinet and should not be repeated. We have asked the Turkish authorities to respond to the issue. The sequel is now known. This is what the cabinet wrote to the Chamber this morning. In good consultation with the Turkish authorities, it has been decided that Turkey will recall the Vice-Consul. That has happened by now. For example, the Foreign Office was informed yesterday by the Turkish embassy. The cabinet appreciates the swift action taken by the Turkish authorities to bring the matter to a satisfactory conclusion. I would also like to mention that cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Turkish Embassy in The Hague is good in this area. It has also been asked whether the Turkish embassy indicated in the consultation that there has been an error. Firstly, the Turkish authorities and the Turkish embassy understand the enormous commotion that has arisen. They are clearly not happy with Mr Acar's behaviour. In this light, it has been decided to withdraw. The Turkish temporary agent indicated that the Diyaneta attaché acted on his own initiative, without knowing the direction of the embassy, and the temporary agent also indicated his regret. I am coming to a close, but perhaps I can make one more comment on the importance of the future, because all the spokesmen have asked for it. The course of events in itself gives me confidence and it is important that the Turkish Government has taken this step and understands what has happened. The cabinet is now counting on the embassy to ensure that Mr Acar's successor will refrain from similar practices. But I'll say something about that right away. The Diyanet chairman is now part of the Turkish diplomatic service and on the other hand working for a Dutch organisation, and that double hat is now becoming very problematic as far as we are concerned. My view is that this combination is not acceptable and that, as far as we are concerned, the accreditation of a new religious attaché cannot be linked to the presidency of the Diyanet Association, the Islamic Foundation Netherlands. So I want that tape cut, too. This means that the Dutch Government will communicate this to the Turkish Government. That needs to be cut. Mr Acar's withdrawal, according to the Cabinet, brought to an end this particular issue and the undesirable practice of reporting to Ankara on persons and organisations that would be under the control of the Gülen movement. Finally, I would like to say that it is important not to mix this incident with a number of other discussions that we are having. However, it is important to make it clear here that this double function is not only unfortunate, but will not be enforceable in the future as far as we are concerned. We have also initiated this discussion in the last period following the situation since 15 July, together with a large number of other countries in the European Union. I took the initiative myself. We are also talking about this with the High Representative of the European Union. In Austria, Belgium and Germany exactly the same problem is being raised. I think it is important that we also cooperate with other countries. It is therefore the position of the Netherlands not to want to continue this dual function, not as a condition for that, but I also think it is important to operate at the same time with other countries, because they also see this situation as more problematic than before. He may never have been ideal, but given the political developments in Turkey he has been more problematic and I think it is important for both Turkey and the Netherlands that we clarify this separation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u74	It is clear that the Minister's answer is very important to me. It is also important that we no longer have to see in the future that an embassy employee is also chairman of a mosque association that we hope will integrate into the Netherlands. My question to the Minister is what, in his view, is at all the job of a collaborator of religious affairs at an embassy. Fortunately, we do not know this figure in the Netherlands, but this is an employee of the Turkish Erdogan Government who deals with religious matters in the Netherlands at the embassy. Does the minister know enough what this person is doing? Should we accept in the Netherlands that an embassy has such a function, knowing what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u75	The most important thing is, first of all, that we are opposed to the mixing of the attaché function with that of President of the Diyanet Association. I believe that this is also the subject of discussion in the Diyanet Association in the Netherlands. I assume the Minister for Social Affairs will discuss this. Secondly, there is the question of attachés. Countries are free to have attachés elsewhere, in any field. We have them ourselves. We have attachés in the field of justice and cooperation against terrorism, but a country is free to have a religious attaché as well. We also have attachés dealing with religion and development cooperation. We are now working on a number of pilots in the area of religious freedom, involving specific people, sometimes from other ministries. So this is not a problem of principle. It also relates well to the international conventions of Vienna on this matter. But of course this applies in general; this has nothing to do with any attaché. There are, of course, restrictions on the behaviour of religious attachés, prosecutors' attachés, police attachés or whatever. This applies, for example, to espionage. You understand, of course, that such a thing is not allowed. This is not only a matter of concern; countries have clear rights and obligations in this area. They also apply to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u76	We'll see how this goes. Now my second and final question. The Minister said, in my words, that the Turkish embassy was also unhappy with what happened. Again in my words, and perhaps a little less diplomatic, I say: can the Minister hardly believe that? This is the way Turkey works today, isn't it? Is there an annoying incident in his eyes or does the Minister think it is much deeper? The latter would be my statement. Does the Minister agree that this link should be cut, and that the Turkish government cannot use its embassy here in the Netherlands to bind Turkish Dutch, who are Dutch, to the Turkish government as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u77	This government, and this minister too, is in no way naive about the development in Turkey. You can count on that. Furthermore, we have operated actively to this day at any time when there was any indication of a possible incident, because this was based on an article in De Telegraaf, interference in Dutch affairs. And I would point out, with all due respect for what you say, that Turkish relations are just a little more complicated than they seem. Of course, this government has a certain vision and should report the embassy to the government. This vision applies, for example, to the Gülen movement: it qualifies this movement as a terrorist organisation. Nevertheless, the Turkish foreign service also has a certain professionalism. If the Turks state that the Diyaneta attaché acted on his own initiative, I do not want to assume the opposite. We have heard this and I think it is important that we have said it. We must also recognise that this is an important matter. So I'm assuming that now. As regards the separation of functions, I have said that our government intends to shape them in a different way in future, given the experience since the coup.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u78	My question is somewhat in line with Mr Buma's. I assume the Minister chooses his words carefully. He said that the embassy regrets the conduct of the former President of Diyanet. So the minister doesn't say the embassy doesn't approve of this one. How are we supposed to appreciate that difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u79	You know, if someone is withdrawn on the basis of a clear intervention by the state for which they work, that is a strong signal in international diplomatic traffic. It speaks volumes when one says that one has understood your signal and withdraws such a person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u80	Can the Minister assure me that this does not mean that it is regrettable that it has become public that the President of Diyanet has done so, rather than that this behaviour is actually rejected? Has the Minister of the Turkish Embassy and the Turkish Government been given a guarantee that they will ensure that this will not be repeated at the next appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u81	There are two elements in answering your question. Firstly, it concerns the way in which we intend to make accreditation work in the future, which de facto separates the two functions. Such a thing already means a great reduction of the risk you are referring to. Secondly, it is clear from the steps taken by the Turkish Government that it qualifies the person in question, and thus his behaviour, in such a way that the person has been returned to Turkey. I very much appreciate the fact that the Turkish Government has taken this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u82	I'm gonna go back to that last point. I also asked the Minister very explicitly in my term. Is there a genuinely independent decision by the Turkish Government to withdraw this gentleman, or has it happened with a gentle urge? Or did this minister say you're pulling him out, or I'm throwing him out? I'm saying it a little bit charged right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u83	It's dialectically a complicated situation. First of all, I assume that we have made it clear how we feel about it. Secondly, this is an independent decision of the Turkish Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u84	Can I make it clear that at least this Minister is of the opinion that it was really understood in Ankara? I therefore ask Mr Van Meenen to understand that the behavior is not correct and did they not just withdraw it because there has been a hassle about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u85	Yeah, I'm assuming that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u86	I just want to get some focus on it. This gentleman has been recalled. So that means he's not coming back and someone else is being appointed. Have any agreements been made on dual functions and the whole gathering of information thing? We're talking about this person and this thing because it's been in the publicity. What sharp agreements has the Minister made with the Turkish government?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u87	We only heard last night that the Turkish Government made this decision. We think that's a positive decision. I have just said what the position of the Dutch Government is with regard to this dual function. So we cannot give accreditation to someone who has that double function. We will, of course, communicate this clearly to the Turkish Government. I think that this is the most important way of getting insurance for the problem that has arisen and which we do not want to repeat. We have always operated on all fronts when we had the impression that there was intervention from the Turkish Government. They've been acting on that every time. I have no guarantees for the future, but I would point out that we have seen in the past period that we are actually responding to our interventions. I think that is a good development in itself, and we will continue to do so. We have diplomatic relations with Turkey. There are also certain rights and obligations. We have also looked precisely at the treaties and the international legal position of Mr Acar. This applies to all diplomats who are in The Hague. We simply cannot enter the area of internal political relations in the Netherlands. I'm just gonna say it again, public. That's clearly what you do with these kinds of steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u88	I can tell in the debate that we are making this President and his actions very much the bogeyman. That's right, let's make that clear. However, it begins with the request made by such an attaché. That request comes from Diyanet himself, from Turkey, through the Praise Office, which belongs to the Ministry of AZ there. The Prime Minister is responsible for that. Is the signal from the Netherlands to Turkey now clear, clear and clear, that we are not in favour of a ministry, the Turkish state itself, intervening in the Netherlands? Can we prevent that from happening in the future? Or is this Minister even prepared, should this happen again, to go further on the diplomatic escalation ladder?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u89	As you know, it is really not wise to say what you would do if things were bad at the moment you get results. An improvement has now taken place. We're picking up a signal. People are pulling back. I have also raised this with my Turkish colleague on a regular basis. We are doing the same with other countries now. This means that it is clearly communicated and that intervention in political relations in the Netherlands or in the safety of Dutch citizens is not acceptable. This is separate from the discussion we are having about the future of Diyanet and the motions that the Chamber has tabled on possible alternatives. I assume that Mr Asscher is going to say a few words about this. It is not so much that a problem has suddenly been solved as a whole. He won't be solved with one event either. That's something we're building on the experiences we've had since July 15th. The Dutch government has acted sharply on what it considers unacceptable in the diplomatic movement between the Turkish and Dutch authorities. We then try to make a joint fist with other countries internationally, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u90	Summarizing: does the Minister of Foreign Affairs therefore consider that responsibility lies not only with the person who ultimately acted in this case, but also with the organisation that made the request, namely Diyanet, under the Ministry of General Affairs of Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u91	It is a little complicated for me to give a precise wording for that. First of all, there was one letter from Diyanet a few months ago. I believe that the Members of Parliament have seen all this, too. Since then, no other instruction has appeared to my knowledge. The instruction refers to the importance attached to non-intervention in other States. Where that has been done, whether it has been done on instruction or not, I cannot judge it is in any case wrong. We have clearly indicated this to both the Turkish Government and the organisations here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u92	The Minister's reaction is clear: what happened is unacceptable. This is a specific case, but I think there is a broader problem. In my first term I referred to the Department of Faith in Turkey, which has published a text which states that it monitors the lives of its nationals abroad, in Europe. I wonder whether the Minister has immediately made the link with such publications, because Turkey's deliberate policy is to monitor the lives of people abroad who see it as their nationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u93	There are two other elements in that too. Firstly, in this case too, the Netherlands: there's no guild by association. That means the only way I can do anything is if I know exactly what's going on. In that case, I can then operate very sharply. Secondly, we must make a clear distinction between what can and what cannot be done. Diplomatic traffic between the Turkish authorities and the Dutch authorities, whatever the subject, is permitted. I don't have a problem with that. What is not acceptable is the open or secret influence of behaviors and choices of Turkish Dutch people. I have given the Chamber a number of examples of what we are making a problem of, such as the Turkish temporary agent's interview on 8 August, the clickline and the use of public channels for unsolicited voting advice, which has been discussed earlier. So we do see elements that we are concerned about. There is no publication other than that of a few months ago, which I mentioned. The text to which Mr Bashir refers contains a kind of double message, if I have read it correctly. It is actually an appeal: you cannot spy in other countries, but we are concerned about the role of Gülen in the mosque community. I'm gonna leave that statement for what she is. In any case, we have made it clear to the Turkish Government and the temporary agent here, either through a particular person or through a particular event, that we are not of any use in international politics. That can't be different from being obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u94	We agree that we are not served by this, but they are all symptoms of a policy that we are fighting. The policy, as formulated on the website or in the publication of the department of beliefs, is clear: the department monitors nationals abroad. These include living patterns, work, religious activities, the school they go to and so on. If no reference is made to the source and nothing is done about the policy, you will only continue to fight against symptoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u95	I do not think I can give a different answer than I have just done. I don't think we're that far apart. There are elements that we do not consider acceptable, both in policy and in direction. There are certain events that take place. If they are not in line with what we in the Netherlands consider acceptable with regard to the action of the Turkish government in the Netherlands, then let us see. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That can only be obvious. I think there is no doubt about that. At the same time, I welcome the fact that the Turkish Government has taken this step in this case in good consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u96	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u97	I actually think I am done answering the questions that were asked to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u98	I had the same impression. Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief, because the Foreign Minister has already outlined the framework of the Dutch Government. I will deal with the specific questions that remain. Mr Buma asked why information on the implementation of the motion was not forthcoming until February. It is a complex matter, which affects, among other things, freedom of religion. We need time for that, because there are several motions and commitments that also touch each other. This incident around the double cap will be included. In that sense, I understand the question very well. We are also investigating how other countries deal with the same problem. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has already said that the issue of Diyanet is, of course, in several countries. On this basis, we will examine whether solutions used there are applicable here too. Mr Bashir's question is the same: when will we be clear about stopping this flow of money? We shall return to that in the February letter, because Mr Bashir in fact refers to the drafting of Mr Van Haersma Buma's motion. More generally, I have recently sent a letter on unwanted funding. That was more about fundamentalist extremist movements being financed from Gulf states. There is another question from the CDA about the dual function, that of diplomat and the religious role. Isn't that bad for integration? Yeah, that's bad for integration. I therefore support the decision that the Foreign Minister has just announced that we want to put a cut in those roles. I support that, of course. This is connected with the line that was also expressed in the Chamber that there is nothing against people feeling connected to the country where their parents or grandparents come from, but that their future lies here. We must therefore protect people, in their freedom to make choices here in the Netherlands, from interference from another country. We must offer protection against restricting freedom for Dutch people, including Dutch people with a Turkish background, when it comes to how they want to organise their lives. That's why it's important that we get that cut. Are we prepared to close Diyanet, close all mosques and ban all Qurans? The answer to that question is no. We know religious freedom in this country. I think it is also very important to stick to that and to distinguish each time between those who do and those who do not comply with the Dutch rules and laws. The latter group needs to be tackled. But we must protect the freedom that applies to all of us. Mr De Graaf asks what we are going to do about the problem. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has already outlined that we will take a stand every time there are indications of interference in the lives of Dutch people with a Turkish background and that we will try to protect those Dutch from it. This also means that it plays a role in diplomatic relations with Turkey. Mr Azmani asks: isn't Diyanet more of an intelligence service? I think it would go too far to qualify Diyanet exclusively as an intelligence service. But it is very good that this double function, which is indeed dubious, will no longer be honored, because it will at least show you that mixture. This does not seem to me to be in the interest of Dutch people with a Turkish background. Unfortunately, in recent times, we have seen more examples of a dubious role directly or indirectly inspired by Turkish policy towards diaspora. We also saw how shortly after the coup there was a reaction to people who had nothing to do with it. Children were pressured to go to another school. People saw that their store was boycotted because of allegations of involvement. We need to take a very clear position on this because it once again restricts the freedom of Dutch people who have to make choices in view of their future here. This is linked to Mr Azmani's motion that the Chamber has adopted: how do we deal with those more classical Turkish religious organisations? I understand the Chamber very well. In fact, she says: focus your policies on that much broader, more diverse group of Dutch people with a Turkish background, so that their voices are heard. In this respect, we see new initiatives going straight through the old lines, which are not being guided by the cover-up. Make sure that those voices are heard when shaping the policy. There is no need for anyone to take a stand on his behalf if that is not the case at all. I believe that this is how we should continue to address organisations to their social responsibility. That's the room that offered the room. This is necessary if things are to take place shortly after the summer with pressure on children and parents. Then it is very important to speak to each other and to make it clear that in the Dutch rule of law, where the future of children in this society is concerned, this kind of thing is not appropriate. Can an anonymous report be made, as early as Mr Van Meenen. Yeah, but we're lucky to see that's flattened after that peak period in the summer. In that respect, things have calmed down. However, that possibility remains with emphasis. Mr Grashoff asked why there is no imam training in the Netherlands. You want people to focus on a future here. This includes that you are not dependent on sent spiritual servants from Turkey. We know the somewhat sad history of imam education. The quality was insufficient, causing it to muddle somewhat. At the Vrije Universiteit there is a post-initial education for imam, including in collaboration with Muslim organisations in the Netherlands. One is looking at whether this can lead to a restart of previously developed and offered training courses, provided of course that they meet the quality requirements we set in the Netherlands. That seems to me to be in everyone's interest. That is the answer to the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u100	The rulers put a great deal of emphasis on the undesirableness of that mixture of a religious role and a role in gathering intelligence. This makes it seem as if it is okay if it is separated and separate information is collected about Dutch people with a Turkish background. How does the Minister view that? Is he okay with that if it's not mixed with another part or is he not okay with it at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u101	I'm far from okay with it. I find it completely undesirable. People need to know they're not being snitched or spied on. People need to know that there are no lists of alleged associations with any organization. In the case of freedom in the Netherlands, there is a rule of law here and, if a person is suspected of criminal offences, there are established procedures to deal with it. Everyone needs to be clear of this kind of thing. Looking over your shoulder because the neighbor places you on a list, doesn't belong to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u102	That is, of course, exactly the answer I was hoping for, but this debate is very much about the role of the President of Diyanet. Then it is very much about the undesirableness of that link. In my contribution, I asked whether there are any indications that other organisations are also collecting this type of data. If so, what will the cabinet do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u103	The reason for the debate lies in those statements and the reaction of the government to them. But the problem is wider. The Chamber and I agree on that. We've seen a series of incidents. Even before the coup attempt we saw examples of unwanted interference in the life of Dutch people with a Turkish background. After that coup attempt, that was considerably strengthened. In response to the suspicion of the Gülen movement, you can see very unfresh and unwanted scenes in other countries, but certainly also in the Netherlands. So this is not an isolated incident in that sense. Only in this incident did that double role have a meaning, hence the reaction to that point. That does not solve that point as a whole, because it requires much more. We wrote about this shortly after the summer. We must respond every time facts arise that point to this kind of interference with the lives of Turkish Dutch people. We will have to stand up for those Dutch and their freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u104	That's good to hear, too. What actually happens then? The Minister says a wave of declarations has been made earlier. Now that number is less, but apparently they're still there. What actually happens to that? How are these declarations being prosecuted and where does that lead?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u105	I have to be a little careful about this, because this is the area of the Minister of Security and Justice. I know that a number of declarations have been prosecuted. How the exact numbers are, I don't know. I would like to assure Mr Van Meenen that we take this extremely seriously. We made that possibility of anonymous declaration very clear just then. The rule of law is also there to protect you from this kind of thing. We believe it is important that, in the event of apparent intimidation, in the case of threats, we have also seen them during that period, and in the case of the unholy treatment of other Dutch people, the rule of law can be invoked. I do not now have the precise details of the follow-up to these declarations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u106	I thank the Minister for his answers. I have one more question. He has contacts with the Islamic Foundation Netherlands, Diyanet. Of course, the foundation is independent, but in the discussions with representatives I would appreciate it if the minister would tell them that it is much better to elect or appoint a chairman who is a Dutchman, a Dutchman of Turkish origin, than to have someone flown from Ankara, precisely to show that it is about integration in the Netherlands and not about the long arm from Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u107	I can only endorse Mr Buma's plea. The discussions I have with this Turkish-religious organization are almost always in the key to the future here, not the history or the conflicts in Turkey, and the responsibility that everyone with a Turkish background must bear for the future of, for example, the children here. It is therefore important that people focus on the future here in the Netherlands. I will convey the suggestion as well as the plea to make it visible and to choose someone who comes from this society, knows the sensitivities of the Netherlands and is likely to be able to respond well, precisely in the interests of the children.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u108	I have two questions for the Minister. I'll put them in one go, and maybe he can answer them in one go. I welcome the Minister's reply that there is another initiative for imam training at VU. It strikes me that the Minister is rather reluctant to say that he must meet the quality criteria, which I fully agree with him. Does the Minister also see its importance and is he prepared to encourage this training in any way? In my first term, I asked very explicitly whether, in the letter of February, which will deal with antidiaspora politics, I will just mention, we can expect that there is not only the component of protecting against unwanted interference, but also a number of positive steps aimed at making Turkish Dutch feel more at home in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u109	On the first part of those two questions in two I say that it is supported by the department for OCW. So there's that support. The reason I was a little reluctant is that in the past there has often been too early cheering for such initiatives, because then it turned out that it did not succeed, either in quality or in connection with the community here. I share its importance with Mr Grashoff. Eventually, for integration into the Netherlands, you want not to be dependent, not even for imams, on people from another country. I think that's an obvious wish that also lives in the community. People want to hear what is said in Dutch. I also think that this is better for integration. We agree on that. The ministry of OCW is active in this and those contacts are there. The second part is about the greater demand, the feeling of many that they do not feel at home here. Yes, the government must do things about that, such as combating discrimination, defending equal rights and making it clear that the rule of law protects us all, without respect for anyone, including those who say: let us close all mosques and ban the Koran. But there is also a great responsibility for the Turkish community itself, the parents and the organizations, to make it clear: your future lies here; invest in it; make sure that you not only know society but that you are part of it and carry society; as a Dutchman you have as many rights in this country as any other Dutchman; consider it as your future and take care of it. So yes, I will go into that in the February letter. I would also like to take advantage of Mr Grashoff's question to add that other message. It is not something that can only be arranged from this room or from The Hague. The choice for a future here must come from the people themselves very much and if one does, then it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u110	It is a good thing the Minister admits here that he is somewhat abusing my question. I don't mind if he does. I do not think that is a problem at all, because it makes the debate a little more interesting. I agree with the Minister that these two components are in it, but they both in one way or another also call for an active commitment from the Minister and the Government. Apparently it doesn't happen by itself and apparently it hasn't happened for decades. This means that action is really needed, not only a theoretical appeal to this organisation but also a plan to give it hands and feet. This applies both to the inviting side of the Netherlands and to the appeal to the Turkish organisations to give butter to the fish. How can we really make it work for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u111	In doing so, we will naturally respond to the wider demand for integration policies. We agree that integration can succeed if people belong and participate, to summarize it domestically. It means that you are part of the values of society and of the freedoms and that you are willing to defend those freedoms for another. It also means that you are successfully participating in society and that we are doing something about the higher youth unemployment among groups of Dutch, also with a higher education, with a migrant background. It means we're doing something about discrimination. It affects people and turns ambitions into frustrations. It's all part of the government's policy. Integration policy is always about what you demand from newcomers and the efforts you expect from people to engage in, take note of and be part of this society. At the same time, policy is also about what we are doing to ensure that people really get a fair chance. Both elements are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u112	Let's get back to Diyanet. Diyanet would be a religious organization, but they've gathered intelligence. At least that is what the President has done. We all agree that's unacceptable. I am still curious to hear the opinion of the cabinet on what Diyanet is at the moment. Is it just a religious organization or does Diyanet also have a political function?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u113	It's a hybrid figure. It is clearly a religious organisation, because it provides the religious infrastructure that many Dutch people with a Turkish background use. In addition, you can see that strong connection with the Turkish government. So it carries both elements in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u114	But then I think it is even more agitated that we should all note that the Turkish government recognises the cabinet that now also has a great influence on Diyanet and that we leave the money flows for what they are. Those money flows keep running. Diyanet is subsidised and paid for by Turkey and we stand by and look at it. Why can't the cabinet make haste to stop these money flows?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u115	I have just promised to include this question in the response to Mr Buma's motion. In response to his question, I explained that this letter could not come to the Chamber until February because of the careful treatment, the fact that it affects freedom of religion and that we want to benefit from experience abroad. By the way, it's very soon February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u116	Thank you. We have now arrived at the second term of... I am too fast, because I see that Mr Grashoff still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u117	Mr President, I have a very short afterburner. I explicitly asked whether that letter could be sent to the Chamber at such a time that we could also discuss it. I do not think I have received an answer to that question. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u118	I am not talking about when Mr Grashoff can talk about anything. We promised that letter before February and then that letter will be sent to the Chamber in February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u119	The Minister understands my question. If that letter comes to the Chamber at the end of February, we'll be in the election recess. That's why I asked for that letter to be sent in early February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u120	I understand why you're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u121	I'm telling you, I'm not about that. I said that the letter was due in February, but I cannot specify that time limit now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr Grashoff, the regulation is, of course, an opportunity to request it. We now proceed with the second term. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. The last question was about the letter. We have heard before that it will come in February. That's in itself late. The only thing I can ask the ministers is whether they might be able to move forward in February 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u124	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u125	If I could, I'd love to. I have requested this debate because an absolute limit has been crossed when a foreign government in the Netherlands, through people who actually have a religious task, goes into political parties and puts stamps on it. I don't want to and I can't. It is quite clear that the cabinet has taken up the urgency of this matter over the past week and has taken action. At the same time, as a Chamber and a cabinet, I think we should conclude together that we are not just getting rid of this. This continues to require the greatest possible vigilance. For example, I would like to look at what happened yesterday in Turkey. The Russian ambassador was murdered; terrible. The next day is read in all the newspapers: and Gülen is to blame. Then you know about how this goes on in the same way. It is essential that we do not get that poison implanted in the Netherlands through these kinds of people. Hence my thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for summoning the temporary agent. I realize that's a pretty good signal. The Minister then said that, in a subsequent situation, the person who is President of Diyanet cannot also be an embassy employee. I would like to ask the following question. The Foreign Minister has indicated that he is also talking about this with other countries. Can he tell us what that means? I can imagine that every European country is concerned with this. Does he know how other countries deal with this? I think that cooperation is very important here. It must be clear, as the Minister has also said: the Netherlands does not accept this and does not continue to accept it. In the answer of the Minister for Social Affairs, Employment and Integration, I found the following most important. If we have an organisation of mosques in the Netherlands, we agree, but then it should focus on the Netherlands. The point is that they are people with a religious background who live here and who focus on this. That is what the Minister has indicated, and I think it is very important that he, too, emphasizes this in his talks with this organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u126	I now give the floor to Mr Azmani. No, I see that Mr Marcouch still has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u127	I would like to ask a brief question for clarification. Does Mr Van Haersma Buma think that the Minister should be active with these organisations in order to allow what the Van Haersma Buma aims to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u128	Yes. I deliberately asked the question the way I asked him. So I have to make sure I give the answer correctly. I realize that the Turkish minister is not about Diyanet and neither is the Dutch minister. My question to the Minister was to discuss this in his talks. In my view, this can simply be done on the basis that an organisation that wants to have a future here has to work according to the rules of our democracy. That seems like a pretty convincing story to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u129	I understand that you think it is important that these talks are held.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u130	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u131	The minister has to keep doing that, and he has to challenge people to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u132	Absolutely. Moreover, I believe that this is the case for the whole of politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u133	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank both ministers for their response. It's very clear and clear. There has been swift action, but we are far from there. That's not for nothing either, because this isn't from today or yesterday. You see a build-up when it comes to the interference of the Turkish side towards the Netherlands. Now we see them with the lists. Earlier, after the attack, after the coup, we saw them in sermons held in the various mosques. Several imams literally uttered similar lyrics. So it is quite clear that there is being sent from Diyanet, the presidency of the responsible Prime Minister in Turkey. So we're not here yet. That is why the counter-strategy is needed. If it is so openly that foreign diaspora policy is being pursued, it is up to us to reduce that long arm and to ensure that our inhabitants with a Turkish background feel especially Dutch rather than sticking to a Turkish identity. This may lead to a question for the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Does the February letter in question, which, of course, we are all waiting for, include elements within the framework of the national counter-strategy? I can already name one element: if you look at Diyanet and how the mosques are organized, you can see that some mosques have an anbi status. If we want something with concealing gifts or funding, I can imagine a proposal being made, for example, to look critically at that anbi status. For example, there are other ways to make it harder to act in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u134	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet acknowledges that Diyanet is not only a religious organisation, but also has a political function. That's undesirable. We must break with Turkey's long arm and we must stop the flow of money. Stop financing prayer houses abroad in the Netherlands. We want a clear separation between Church and State. I therefore expect action to be included in the cabinet's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u135	Let me take a look at how I understand what the SP colleague said. He said: stop funding prayer houses in the Netherlands. Does that also apply to church communities, etc., or only to mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u136	It's about foreign money flows. If religious people in the Netherlands want a prayer institution, whether it is a church or a mosque, that is of course a right. They must then finance and organise them themselves and be able to build them themselves. However, it is undesirable that prayer houses are financed from abroad, such as Turkey, Saudi Arabia or Qatar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u137	I understand that, but does Mr Bashir mean that, for example, priests, pastors, etcetera should not come this way in respect of churches? Or does it only apply to the Islamic Houses of Prayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u138	If you want a separation between Church and State, it seems logical to me that you want to set it up for all religious institutions. It would be strange, of course, to ban this in one institution and not in other institutions. So it's a broad call. The cabinet is investigating this. I do expect that there will finally be action in the letter that is coming. We have been discussing this issue for a very long time. Meanwhile, the radicalists from Saudi Arabia and Qatar are financing and poisoning the young's brains. We shouldn't want that. We have to stop that. That is why I call for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u139	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u140	I'm in favour of the separation of Church and State. It also means that the state should not interfere with the church and the organization. We also have something like freedom of religion. I understand Mr Bashir's plea in such a way that it is contrary to that. When he says that in general we must prohibit the financing of churches and mosques, so that imams or priests can no longer come from abroad, that is contrary to the freedom of religion and also to the separation of church and state.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u141	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u142	That is not at all in conflict with that, because if the community of faith needs a prayer room, it can simply finance it itself. If she needs a prayer room abroad, she can also pay and organize it, but in her own country. Surely it is crazy that we allow radicals from Saudi Arabia or Qatar to finance the whole thing here in the Netherlands and turn things into their own hands? That seems undesirable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u143	Mr. Chairman. This problem has indeed been discussed in this Chamber for a long time. This is because nothing actually happens to the problem of Islamization in the Netherlands. You'll be talking for a long time. Erdogan plays a role in the Islamization of the world and of the Netherlands in the fourth dimension. This room's on a half board checkers. That's the problem. That's why I'm filing this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Diyanet (Islamic Foundation Netherlands) is Erdogan's hand and long arm in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas Diyanet's interference has a disruptive effect on Dutch society and ultimately on public order;]] [[believes that a new President of Diyanet still represents Erdogan in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government, Diyanet Netherlands and all related foundations and mosques to be dismantled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-178]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u144	What is Mr De Graaf's view of the implementation of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u145	We are talking about a piece of Islamic infrastructure in the Netherlands. I mentioned public order in my motion. So you have to consult with mayors and such in order to dismantle this foundation actually it is a lot of foundations in a lot of municipalities called public order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u146	Those are the mayors. Then there are also the mosque visitors themselves, who see that their mosque is closed. How is this handled in the eyes of Mr De Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u147	They can't go to their mosque anymore. Maybe they can go to another place, but they can't go to this one anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u148	I can imagine that this will not happen without the strong arm being needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u149	Well, I don't know. Maybe Mr Buma sees it that way, but I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u150	Then you just stay in your dream world where you talk to mayors, where all mosques close and the mosque visitors go home in a certain joy. If I were you, I would return to the Netherlands today with two legs on the ground. In it are people who go to churches; I am one of them. In them are people who go to mosques. I can tell you I won't accept it if you close my church. You want a peaceful society, don't you? I fear that the binding closure of mosques through public order will lead to a great deal of unrest and not to the tranquillity that our society needs. I'd rather have a society of peace, but you choose a society that becomes one big chaos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mr Buma does not have to worry that I would like to close his church. Maybe I'll come over on Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u152	Mr De Graaf has now tabled this motion, but he makes many calls. They are usually contrary to the Constitution. I am very curious to see how Mr De Graaf is opposed to our Constitution, and to the fundamental rights contained in it. They do not allow what he advocates with regard to Islam and Muslims, because he wants to close mosques, forbid Korans and so on. What is his position on the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u153	I took the vow. I also see that the whole Islamic ideology is contrary to that Constitution. That's what you have to fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u154	No, it's the other way around. Mr De Graaf's ideology is contrary to the Constitution. I wonder when Mr De Graaf and his PVV are going to clean up by sticking to the Constitution and defending and promoting it with pride. When are you going to do that, Mr De Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u155	In that trick of Mr Marcouch there are fewer and fewer Dutch people, and that is a good thing. It's a setup, a reversal of the facts. Mr Marcouch is good at that. We've shared that here a lot, maybe a hundred times. I'm getting a little tired of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u156	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u157	Yeah, finally. It's not a trick. It's really a sincere question. I love our Constitution. I'll defend it, and I'll wear it out, with everything in it. I note that Mr De Graaf and his PVV undermine the Constitution and the rule of law with their proposals. If there is a party in the Netherlands that is Islamic every day, that is the PVV of Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u158	Mr Marcouch's trick is no longer working, I say. He's turning things around. He did it again just now, so I thought I'd let him know. But now he's doing it again! If you want to protect the Constitution, you have to be against Islam and against that whole ideology, which is precisely trying to undermine the rule of law in the Netherlands. If there is one party defending the Constitution, then the representative is on this side. It's not the other way around. I'd say don't fall for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u159	It's extremely harsh. The reason for this debate is the long arm of Ankara, which threatens people here in the Netherlands and gives them an unsafe feeling. The only tangible result of this debate in the Chamber would be the adoption of a motion that threatens people in the Netherlands much more. We have seen before that the PVV does not hesitate to let the long arm, the police, pick up the Qur'an at home. Now the prayer houses are closed. It's all part of the PVV election programme. Of course, I'm not getting an answer, but I want to have said it anyway. I also said it in the first term. If we add this to the distribution of lists via Twitter and placing judges on the wrong side of history, it is genuinely the question whether the PVV is not in the process of attacking the Netherlands in the heart. What tradition and values of the Netherlands since 1848, the creation of this Constitution, is the PVV actually defending here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u160	I don't really know what the question is anymore. I heard a sermon. The "amen" wasn't attached to it. I've heard four or five questions. Which one does Mr Van Meenen think is the most important?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u161	A brief question, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u162	I'd be happy to repeat my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u163	I've heard several of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u164	Why don't you answer all of them? I've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u165	I don't, because we have to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u166	It's five to five. We always talk about Jewish-Christian Dutch traditions and values. I heard Mr Van Meenen ask two or three weeks ago in this Chamber: what are these values, what is tradition, what is identity? Yes, I can imagine someone for whom everything is liquid, for whom there is no limit and for whom there is nothing to defend, asking such a question. He himself has no knowledge of this, but should I explain this to Mr Van Meenen, who himself has so hard-hittingly renounced his own identity and values and who fights for gender-neutral toilets for toddlers in schools? Do I have to explain to Mr Van Meenen for three and a half hours what these traditions and values are?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u167	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u168	What is equality between men and women, for example, and what reciprocity, a very important Christian foundation anchored in this society, means? If Mr Van Meenen has no knowledge of this and cannot deal with it, I would say: just come to my study and we will talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u169	Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u170	I'll be happy to visit Mr. De Graaf in his study sometime. Then I will explain to him what is in our Constitution. That's what the values are for me. The PVV distributes lists in a threatening way and puts judges on the wrong side of history. It is about the foundations of our society, of our Constitution. Now the PVV speaks about the taking away of prayer houses, but a prayer house is also a fundamental fundamental right in this country. I wonder which Constitution Mr De Graaf is defending here. That's just his own Constitution, isn't it? It doesn't belong to anyone else anymore, does it? I have a very different constitution from the PVV. This is simply a frontal attack on the Constitution that we know in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u171	If you can't explain things in three sentences and if it gets too long, it usually gets bullshit. We share the same Constitution and, if it is right, we defend the same Constitution. In any case, I am defending the Dutch Constitution. If, like Mr Van Meenen, you don't know what to defend, you don't know what to attack. That is the problem of D66 and a large part of the Chamber. Of course Mr Van Meenen doesn't know what he's up to. If as a nation you no longer have a backbone with a system of values and standards and no identity, you also don't know what to defend. Then you won't be able to identify the attacker. Then you do have a big problem. The Netherlands suffers from this. Fortunately, an increasing proportion of the population understands what's going on and those people don't vote D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u172	We'll see about that in March. I say again that I know very well what I am defending here. For example, freedom of religion and separation, not only of Church and State, but the separation of powers in this country. These are all matters that are repeatedly attacked by the PVV under the guise of defending our democracy, our country and our rule of law. I'd like to distance myself from that. Mr De Graaf just said: if you can't explain it in three sentences, it's no good. He just needed 27 sentences to explain why he is here defending the rule of law and the Constitution. I say to Mr De Graaf: you are failing in that. Your party is directly attacking the Dutch rule of law with proposals like you are doing today. You defy...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u173	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u174	You defy freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u175	These were 150 sentences. I have answered Mr Van Meenen's questions neatly. I think it's nice to answer. Indeed, if 30 questions are asked, you need at least 30 sentences to answer them. If you get another 50 back... it draws the desperation of Mr. Van Meenen. He's completely lost. I wish him well with that during Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u176	Mr. Chairman. We want the Turkish Dutch to be well and feel safe and participate in our society. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Turkish Dutch and their families want and can participate in Dutch society in a full, equal and free manner;]] [[noting that the Dutch authorities set limits in this context if the Turkish government wishes to interfere in the Turkish-Dutch community;]] [[considers that the Turkish-Dutch community should be able to withstand this and need sufficient space to participate autonomously and independently of Turkey in the Dutch society;]] [[calls on the government to encourage this and to further encourage Turkish-Dutch movements and put them in a position to establish links with the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marcouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-179]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u177	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. I have another question and a motion. It is still unclear to me what the principal vision of the cabinet on Diyanet is now. Can Diyanet, which has no separation of mosque and state in this case, which is not secular, which is financed by the Turkish state and is therefore by definition political, be active in the Netherlands or not? If so, how do we intend to prevent this interference by the Turkish state in the Netherlands? VNL strives for a strict secularity à la France. We prefer not to have a Diyanet in the Netherlands at all. A first step can be to stop the facilitation of Diyanet. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Islamic Foundation Netherlands (ISN/Diyanet Netherlands) has an anbi-status;]] [[Whereas this organisation is an extension of the Turkish government, directly interferes with Dutch affairs and engages in activities contrary to integration;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for this organisation to have a tax advantage;]] [[calls on the Government, ISN/Diyanet Netherlands, to deny anbi-status,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-180]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u178	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that this incident has been properly and adequately addressed and that progress has been made, for which I congratulate you. I hope the Minister stays so alert. I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment for the answers. It is a good thing that the letter we receive in February will have a twin-track character; I understood the Minister's commitment. A little less understandable is that the Minister says that he is not about those letters, because of course he is about that. He can promise in the second term that he will come a little earlier in the month of February. I would also like to thank him for his comments on the imam training programmes in the Netherlands. I think we are in full agreement on that and I hope that we can do it sometime. Finally, Mr President. I have to note that the PVV has today made an impeccable plea for intolerance and intolerance and has raised a strong middle finger on constitutional freedoms in this country, such as freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of assembly. They're all going to the dump. Add comments on a fake parliament and fake courts, and we can see that the Freedom Party is openly advocating the lifting of our democratic rule of law. Shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u179	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I can see the ministers being able to respond immediately. I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u180	Mr. Chairman. I thank Members for their second-term questions. A small number of questions have been asked to me. I thank Mr Buma for his words. I think he is very right with the analysis he is making: no naivety, just sticking to the line of what is happening in the wake of the incidents that we have now seen. I think he is also quite right that we should also look at the international force field. Mr Azmani also asked for this. On the Dutch initiative we are meeting with Germany, Austria, France, Belgium, Denmark and Sweden in what we call a "like minded" consultation. That is precisely what we are talking about here, because in almost all of these countries similar problems arise. This consultation took place in the Netherlands for the first time. The second meeting was in Belgium. We will continue to do so, even in the coming weeks. In fact, it deals with a number of issues, such as the position of Diyanet, the educational situation with regard to alleged Gülen schools and the tensions between various groups in the Turkish communities. They play differently in different countries. That can be between Kurds, gülenists and AKPs and sometimes there are other dividing lines. The question is how to prevent intervention from Turkey which is not in accordance with customs and laws in its own country. The third meeting is expected to take place early next year. That has not yet been confirmed, but we remain very active on it. I would like to make one more comment on what has been asked by Mr Bashir. Let me be absolutely clear about this. There are also important texts on this subject in international treaties. It is not, of course, the case that the separation of these specific functions and the problems that this has caused means that others could simply do what they want. For the sake of diplomatic relations, it is stipulated that a diplomatic representation may, by any legal means, examine the situation and developments in the host State and report back to the government of the sending State, but, of course, spying is inadmissible. This applies to all diplomats, not just the consular attachés. It is therefore indeed a broader issue, which is, moreover, separate from the specific Turkish role. I'm speaking in general now. We have now discussed this particular form of dual function. However, it is not generally appropriate for tensions to be exported from one country to another. I think that is at the heart of today's debate. The government will remain very vigilant about this. That is what I am saying to Mr Buma, who has requested this debate. We must also note that a solution has been found in this case in good consultation with Turkey. That's important, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u181	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u182	Mr. Chairman. I had already accepted Mr Buma's suggestion. I'll figure out how to pass that on without being out of line with others. Yeah, those calls need to be made. It is important that one can take note of the view of the Dutch government. The VVD says the anbi status can play a role. That's right. That's for February. I know I'm gonna have to move it up a month. I'll try to send that letter at the beginning of that early month. I'm gonna do my best for that, but I don't promise. I shall also mention the element of anbi-status and what it entails. That is also an answer to the SP's question. We have agreed that, as a result of the Buma motion, we will respond neatly and carefully to these financial flows and to what you could and could not do with them. So that's coming to the Chamber. I object to the demonisation of dams in the debate. The Netherlands has just become a world champion in damsport, a think sport with which people get on with. I see it wasn't meant to be so bad in this case. Then I'll come to the motions. The De Graaf motion in part No. 178 calls on the government to dismantle all foundations and mosques associated with Diyanet. What you see in that is that the PVV is a hypocritical club. It is a hypocritical club that stands here and says: yes, I have sworn an oath to the Constitution, but that means nothing; I can then see for myself how I feel about it. No, this is contrary to the Constitution. If you propose closing all mosques and banning all Qurans, you have not taken that oath to the Constitution seriously. We often see this hypocrisy: freedom of expression, very much so, but only for myself, not for anyone else. If anyone else gets out of her opinion and is threatened with it, then that club should be shut down. That's pure hypocrisy from the PVV. Even when it comes to the rule of law, you cannot trust them: the judge must do so, the judge must do so. But the message is: if it suits us, we will attack those judges ourselves. But those judges are like the police officers, the prosecutors and those who protect us all, who keep the rule of law neutral and who make this a safe and free country. So this is a hypocritical club. That means I'm deceiving the motion. The Marcouch motion in part No. 179 asks precisely to give more space to the newer, more diverse movements, to set them up and to establish connections. That is in line with what the Chamber has said about this. That's policy support. The Van Klaveren motion in part No. 180 asks for the anbi status to be taken away. I would like to suggest to the author that we hold that motion until we can discuss funding in connection with the February letter. That's where he belongs. If she were to be put to the vote, I would advise against her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u183	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u184	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon sitting.
