ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u1	I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for all the questions and comments I will deal with later. I'm gonna have to get something off my chest before I do. Several senators have questioned the system of the score card. That's possible, because there are countless ways to calculate. I am happy to answer for the way we did that. But what I found less pleasurable was that there was a hint on officials who would make political choices in their assessment. Look, the Chamber may accuse me of anything, but my officials don't. The Chamber can only congratulate them on their work spirit and their insight. It is a technical exercise, the results of which are presented to me. I will then make a political assessment of whether I take that advice or not. But that score card is based on page-long notes. I would very much like to give a technical briefing on it if I so wish. In short, it is a technical, rather sophisticated procedure. It is not tested by external independents. Because what is the score card built up from? From external evaluations of different donors. There is, of course, a rather comprehensive and comprehensive framework used by donors to assess multilateral organisations. That's good. It's been done a little longer to prevent you from doing incident policy. That scorecard shall be based on and on evaluations by organisations themselves. I would like to address myself if it is thought that there is a political choice, but not the officials, because that is simply not true. Which brings me to the second question, which is related to that. Why was UNIDO not allowed to give input on the score card? We are not of "we of toilet duck find toilet duck the best product." No organization is allowed to provide input on that score card. This is because we have built up the scorecards from evaluations that have often been involved. That is why we do so. By the way, we are not the only country to do that. We also talk regularly with organisations about the assessments, their functioning, our functioning as donors and so on. These are usually constructive conversations. The score cards show the Dutch vision. It is important that we do so, in order to get a clear view of the functioning of organisations and their relevance to the Dutch policy agenda. Moreover, this is done at the request of the House of Representatives. It even insists on cutting down, and sometimes even stopping, less relevant UN organisations for the Netherlands. I think it is all the more important because we support these organisations with taxpayers' money. I believe that not only civil society organisations such as Oxfam Novib and others should account for what they have done with the resources they have received from the Netherlands, but that multilateral organisations should do just as well. It would be strange if we asked Oxfam to report and evaluate in detail every year, and did not do so from multilateral donors. It's also a little "like monks, equal hoods." Why am I standing here again, asked a number of senators. Has anything changed compared to last time, three years ago? What we note is that, on the one hand, the importance of a robust UN is increasing by the day, while, on the other hand, the support for the development activities of the robust UN system is not necessarily increasing. There is a call for reform and there is a call, also by me, for more result guidance. I think that's a good development. Moreover, development cooperation is at the forefront of this. Our own Court of Auditors congratulated us on the transparency of the budget and on our understanding of the results achieved. If you do result control, you do have to judge organizations ok. We'll do it the way I just explained it. Then we see that UNIDO's score cards raise at least a number of questions about the relevance of UNIDO to the Dutch agenda and about the functioning of UNIDO, compared to its functioning on the same priorities of a number of other organisations. If you ask that question, there will be a number of answers. Here the assessment of cabinet and senators may differ a bit. However, I would very much like to argue our view in more detail. The organization functions according to our understanding, even if you look at the score cards, not good enough. Improvements have indeed been made recently, particularly when it comes to accountability and transparency, that is something we can truly recognise, but of course it is not just about accountability, but also about results. Then we see that UNIDO still does not score enough on strategic direction, focus and result measurement. We believe that UNIDO's work is too fragmented and has too little focus. Is the organisation not relevant for the implementation of the Dutch priorities? How can the Minister say that the climate is not relevant? She didn't say that either. One of the senators said that: of course the climate is relevant, but the question is how to spend the resources we spend on climate adaptation and mitigation most effectively and through which organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u3	I thought the minister would stick to the scorecard for a while, but he's not. I do have a question about that. If I understand correctly, this is a biennial process and we now have this discussion on UNIDO and the scorecards, about which the Chamber was informed in June 2015. That's right. It is therefore about information that is likely to have been collected in 2014 and in the first three months of 2015. How does the Minister see the relationship with the haste this is in? Our group chairman, Thom de Graaf, dealt with this issue last time, at the end of 2013. Then it was said: we withdraw the proposal to withdraw from UNIDO. Our group has understood this as: this gives UNIDO a chance to improve itself. With all due respect to the minister's officials, of whom I am sure they are acting very carefully, it seems that the organisation is not functioning properly, on the basis of score cards that were completed in 2015. What's the rush? What will be done with the information provided by UNIDO itself since 2014, 2015 and 2016 to assess the functioning of this organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u4	I do not agree with Mrs Stienen's judgment that we are in a hurry. The first time I stood here was three years ago. Over the past year, we have gone through all the steps needed to reach a decision. That should not be taken lightly. I very much agree with Mrs Stienen. In my opinion, we started the process after we were able to assess UNIDO in 2015. We have gone through that, dressed with all the care that is rightfully associated with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u5	I like to be corrected if I don't remember correctly. In my opinion, UNIDO was not part of the score cards in 2013 at the time of the previous examination of this bill, to withdraw us from UNIDO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u6	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u7	That is why it seems to me at least careless that an organisation has not been assessed first, then that it is not satisfied by the Dutch Government and then that the Dutch Government wants to withdraw from the treaty. Then the organization gets a year. Then it'll take a while to get through the House of Representatives. Then, within a few weeks, we in this house must decide to withdraw from a treaty with a UN organisation for the first time. In a few weeks for an organization of which we have been a member for 30 years, I really speak of haste.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u8	Again, we have carefully observed the procedure and the deadlines. The experience of that period is different for all of us. I would like to say to Mrs Stienen that we have acted with absolute care, precisely because we have been able to assess UNIDO on the basis of that score card. It remains that the Netherlands has a number of policy priorities and that we fill them in in a way that is most effective for us. That hasn't changed since 2013. We work in the area of climate, for example, with the Green Climate Fund. We also work with UNPD. We think it is important to emphasise the role of women in climate adaptation. The topics that UNIDO focuses on are of course relevant. No one will say that climate is irrelevant. Of course, you can shape these interventions in many different ways. You can also shape them very different in many places. Our view is that UNIDO is too fragmented and therefore the impact of the programmes is not what it could have been. This is also apparent from evaluations carried out by UNIDO itself. Has it been done enough to inform UNIDO about what the Netherlands thinks, what our opinion is? Have we had enough contact with UNIDO? I can taste that question with Mrs Stienen and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u9	I may be wrong, but I have just heard a lot from the Minister, but no answer to Mrs Stienen's questions. She said that the scorecard was first drawn up in 2015. UNIDO had not been assessed with this system. That assessment was made on the basis of information gathered in 2014 and early 2015. After that, a lot of information was added. A lot's happened. I myself referred to UNIDO's 2015 annual report. The question was: what did the Minister do with that information? To what extent does this lead to a reconsideration of the opinion contained in that scorecard? I would like to hear a more precise answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u10	I was definitely going to give that to you, too. That's why I took this runaway. Has UNIDO had enough chance to improve? In other words, have we had contact with the organization? I would also like to comment on Mrs Stienen's and the SP's questions. Let me start in general. If we only heard from others around us that UNIDO's way of working has become much more strategic, much more focused, if we had received such signals, we would of course have gone into that more closely. I just want to say that thinking didn't stop at the 2015 score card. Of course, we remain committed to UNIDO. We also keep reading those annual reports. However, we have seen no reason to reconsider our decision. We may differ on that. We've brought in our concerns. We have done so in bilateral contacts with UNIDO. Our permanent representative in Vienna has often been in contact with UNIDO's dg. We've discussed our concerns. We have also indicated the reasons for the Netherlands to withdraw from membership. We have also included these points in the EU coordination meetings. Of course, we have also participated every six months in the regular consultations of EU ambassadors with the Director-General of UNIDO. These consultations shall discuss the progress of the work plan and the functioning of UNIDO. However, we have not seen any reason to change the judgment. Let it be clear that the thinking did not stop in June 2015. We have chosen to cooperate on climate, water, energy and green growth issues with organisations that we believe are more effective and relevant in this area. That's what I just said. In the area of climate, for example, we do this with UNEP. Recently we have been working very constructively on the 'dirty diesel'. I mentioned UNPD. We're also working with the World Bank. The issues have an explicit place in our policy priorities, but our opinion is that other organisations act more effectively on them. I would just like to say a few words about UNIDO and then reflect a little more on what it means to cancel membership of a UN organisation. That was the second point raised here. Mr Schrijver of the PvdA said that the Minister may have this opinion, but that others may have a different opinion. They have, for example, made substantial contributions to UNIDO, especially in recent years. We have, of course, been digging into what that came out of. Germany and Norway, for example, have done so. They have supported specific programmes. That's what they said. You could say UNIDO is running projects for them. It is an implementation organisation for German and Norwegian policy in this area. We want to be another donor. We do not want organisations merely to carry out what we believe should be done. They have their own mandate. On the contrary, we want to make unintended contributions so that, within their mandate, organisations can make their own decisions on how these resources can be used most effectively and efficiently. On the contrary, we do not want to sit on the seat of these organisations, but leave them in their value, so to speak, given their mandate. That's how the Netherlands looks at it. Other donors look at that differently. Of course you can. I have a judgment on what we should do, but I cannot take into account their considerations. I come to the question of why we are doing this at UNIDO and not at WHO and UNESCO, which did not do very well in terms of scorecards. The latter is a fact, which we have all been able to observe. That has to do with two things. WHO and UNESCO are organisations with a unique mandate in a specific area. No other organization makes a list of world heritage, for example. No organisation is standard in terms of health, such as the WHO. So you can't exactly compare those mandates. That's one. Two. We look at the relevance to the policy priorities of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, but the WHO and UNESCO are also involved in other policy areas: OCW, VWS. So the relationship is wider, it's not just about BuHa-OS. With UNCTAD, the Netherlands has a special history. Implementation may not be as strong, but the analyses that are being carried out are very relevant to the foreign trade and development cooperation agenda. I would just like to say that, on the basis of these scores, we are making this kind of trade-offs which, in the end, I repeat, can lead to a politically planned decision in abundance. What does it say if the Netherlands cancels its membership of a UN organisation? I have a few arguments for that. The most convenient argument is the first, because then we are done with it: others have done it, and in the appearance of those countries there has not really been a significant change. I am referring to the US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and eight EU Member States. Anyway, I used to learn from my mom at home: if your little brother jumps into the Meuse, you shouldn't just jump after it. So you have to keep making your own decisions. This was the easy argument. We'll shove that aside. The Netherlands is, rightly, a loyal and a great supporter, both politically and financially, of the UN system. The UN system has almost 100 organisations. We're not active in all that 100, and we don't have to. We are very active in organisations such as UNFPA, UNDP, ILO and UNHCR. We have a strong role to play there in discussing policy, direction and opportunities for improvement. I believe that the withdrawal of membership should not be taboo. If you don't make a choice, everything will be defenseless and worthless. On the contrary, it is good to ask the question with some regularity: does this organisation fit in with what is important to the Netherlands, is it effective and efficient and is it also the appropriate organisation in terms of the policy that the Netherlands wants to use and the results it wants to achieve? You want to appreciate the efforts of organizations, sometimes negative, fortunately, this happens very rarely, sometimes positively. The cabinet assumes that the consequences of termination will be limited. A number of Members said: it is so annoying for Dutch business. We are assured that programmes can still continue. In the Director General's letter, I also read it. You might read something else. I do not find that very sympathetic, if I may say so. But it's up to him. If Dutch business sees so much bread in UNIDO and vice versa, this cooperation will continue. To be honest, I would also find it a bad argument if one only works with Dutch companies because the Netherlands is a member. If the companies are as good as they are now and the Netherlands is no longer a member, would they suddenly lose weight? We used to call that tied help. I'm very opposed to that, and I'm sure many of the senators are against that, too. To be honest, I don't think that's the way to put that link. It is worth mentioning that the European Commission is UNIDO's largest donor. At the request of the Dutch States-General, the government is committed to UNIDO's EU membership. The tires are not cut completely in this way either. I felt some resistance in the Chamber to do that. So we remain connected to UNIDO through the European Union. I think I have answered the questions I have been asked. I hope that I have been able to convince the senators of the robustness and care with which we make this proposal to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u11	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for explaining some of the questions that have been asked. If I look at the cabinet's argument palette and what the Minister adds, there remains, frankly, an uncomfortable feeling that it is somewhat arbitrary how the scores work out. I imagine you're saying we're gonna work with scorecards, because then we're gonna give an objective measure of how we can test organizations. If you do that, it'll make a few demands. In any case, you would like these scorecards to be achieved in transparency, including for those who are assessed. It is therefore useful to know whether you need to get a 7 or an 8 to have a sufficient one. In the Minister's explanatory statement, I hear that the WHO and UNESCO had only a 7.5 or a 7' like UNIDO, "but we're gonna let them succeed because they might have been a little better in the oral exam, or because they might be too big to fail or because they just have that one specific point that makes them distinctive." It does not increase the transparency of the trade-off. It then seems somewhat random why one organization with a 7.5 can go on to the next round, while the other cannot. That feeling of discomfort isn't entirely away from us. I would also like to hear a little more reflection from the Minister on another point. We hear from UNIDO: in fact there has been very little contact, and also in the briefings and in the further bilateral contacts that have been there, we have not really felt that we could tell our story. Let me just put it in my words. The Minister says: 'we have the impression' and 'we have not shown that'. It'll keep running along each other, and we're sorry about that. I am pleased that the Minister is doing the hand-in-hand to continue to support EU membership at EU level. On the question of how the Netherlands' position vis-à-vis other EU countries, I mentioned Germany, Sweden, Italy, relates to UNIDO, I have not really heard the Minister. Our firm impression is that the scorecards there may be measured in a different way and are in any case valued in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking my colleagues and in particular the President for his kind words. That's done me a hell of a job. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers. Like the previous speaker, however, I am not entirely convinced on all points. I would therefore like to raise a few points, and I would also like a reply from the Minister on a few points which I explicitly asked for, but which I probably missed because I wasn't paying attention to. However, I would like me to receive those answers in the second term. Let me briefly mention those specific points. I asked the Minister to mention UN-Habitat as a precedent for this step, in response to the written questions. I also specifically asked the Minister how a score of 2.75 out of a maximum of 4 could lead to the "insufficient" judgment, and finally I asked the Minister about the specific assessment of UNIDO by MOPAN, to which reference is made in the UNIDO scorecard. Unfortunately, I have missed the answers to those questions. The cabinet has asked this Chamber to debate this matter as a matter of urgency. The fact that this was indeed an urgent matter is demonstrated by the fact that the Minister took five months to answer the House of Representatives while the First Chamber received written answers within one day. So hurry is indeed in play here, while it is still unclear what this need for haste comes from. In any case, my group has not been convinced of the need for urgency, nor of the need for this step in itself. The Netherlands has always been a reliable partner in the integrated UN system and the SP must remain so. A "snackbar-model" in which you open or close hatches at will does not fit. This does not mean that we believe that the question of the functioning of the organisations should be a taboo. Of course not. But it is true that there must be compelling reasons, which are clear to everyone, to take this far-reaching step, the Council of State also called this a far-reaching step. Only in the event of proven malpractice and apparent unwillingness to work with the Dutch Government on improvement will we see termination. Of course, responsibility on the part of UNIDO is also needed. We fully support that. There are also certainly improvement points to indicate. In our group's view, too, it can do even better, but once again, UNIDO does not score an inadequate scorecard in the Minister's own scorecard system. I do not therefore get a clue as to what the real justification for this urgent step submitted to Parliament is, all the more so because UNIDO, also in the view of the Minister himself, as I repeat, has made improvements and has also implemented the Medium-Term Planning Framework which the organisation set in motion last year. So why the cancellation? I would just like to touch briefly on the point that the Minister has repeatedly mentioned, and what was also mentioned earlier in the answer to the written questions: we can use our resources better and more effectively and more effectively if we channel them to other organisations. I was new to this dossier; I had to look into it and I noticed that UNIDO is working very closely with many of the organisations mentioned by the Minister. In many cases UNIDO acts in a kind of working partnership with other UN organisations and UN programmes. We are now on the verge of pulling one thread out of the Netherlands, as it were, and that does not seem to me to be conducive to the coherence of the system. These other organisations also see the importance of UNIDO's input. Like the World Health Organisation and UNEP, UNIDO has its own specific input into this cooperation. The Minister can indeed say, on the basis of his own policy considerations, that this unique input for the cabinet is less appealing. I recognize that, although I disagree. But that is different from what the Minister said, namely that UNIDO has no specific, peculiar input into cooperation. I would also like to stress once again, on the point that the funds can be better spent, that they are half a promille of the Minister's budget. That's not nothing, but it's not something that's gonna keep us awake for a very long time. Then I would like to say a few words about the scorecard system itself. I've still got time, I see. That's not so bad. Let me begin by saying that it was not my intention to say anything about the officials of the ministry in any way. If I've given that impression, I'd like to take it away. I appeal to the Minister about the soundness of the scorecard system, and I am not convinced by the Minister's explanation. I would like to mention a number of points on which I think there is a need for improvement, but on behalf of my group I also accept the Minister's offer to attend a technical briefing at the beginning of the new year, so that she has more opportunity to convince us of the thoroughness of this system. Then what are the problems I'm still seeing? The aim of the system is to assess all these UN organisations and programmes and other multilateral clubs in a comparative way. If you're going to do a similar study, you're going to need one measuring bar through which all these different organizations are laid, and I don't see that one measuring bar. If you go to the different scorecards, this is quite a task in itself, because they are very difficult to find on the government's website.You can see that the documentation base of those different scorecards is quite diverse. Nowhere is it explained how, on the basis of this diversity, you can arrive at a thorough comparative assessment of these organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u14	May I remind you of your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u15	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, thank you. I come to my final point and then I come to my conclusion. I am surprised at the Minister's statement that it would not be wise to submit the draft score cards to the organisations concerned for comment. Elsewhere in society this is a perfectly normal way of doing things. I am not saying that the organisations should have input on the scorecard, but they should be able to comment on it. I'm rounding up. The SP Group asks the Minister with some emphasis to take back the bill. On the basis of the information currently available, we cannot support the draft law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Overbeek. Will you look after the time from now on? It was 1 minute and 15 seconds more than the 7.5 minutes you gave as speaking time. I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u17	Did you subtract that one minute that was given to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u18	That doesn't count.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. The political groups of the PvdA and the OSF are very grateful to the Minister for the detailed answer. As far as the score cards are concerned, we do not feel so addressed by the Minister, because we do not question their value. However, we have raised the more fundamental issue: is it right to release such a scorecard drawn up by the Netherlands on the basis of the current Dutch priorities on an international organisation with 170 Member States? I have not actually received an answer to that, but no doubt the Minister has. I invite her to give me that answer. We fully agree with the Minister that multilateral organisations must, of course, also account for the way in which they spend their money and, in general, for the way in which they operate. We see that different Member States come to different conclusions and that, for example, the European Union is apparently considerably more positive about UNIDO than the Minister. On behalf of the two groups, I do not wish to call into question the Minister's freedom of choice to work with UNEP, the World Bank or other organisations, but today we are discussing whether we are also withdrawing the compulsory contribution altogether, whether we are withdrawing membership and whether we are pulling the plug. The Minister may say that there are 100 organisations within the UN system, but most of them are bodies, programmes and funds. We are now talking about one of the 17 specialised organisations. I was very pleased with the opening given by the Minister: the cabinet is actually committed to membership of the European Union, as the European Union is also a member of the Food and Agriculture Organisation and of the World Trade Organisation. I would remind you that our group, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, raised this point strongly three years ago. I would like to invite the Minister to indicate what work has been done in this area in recent years. I think this is a very interesting perspective, but I would also like to refer to the question of whether it would not be more correct and tidy to await the outcome of this before withdrawing its own membership. We have also talked about reform proposals. It is true that UNIDO is not unique, but UNIDO is with funds from GEF, the Global Environment Fund, which is implementing UNDP, the World Bank and UNEP. I would be the first to advocate reform. I can well imagine that UNDP, regional economic committees and UNIDO will be merged into one new organisation, as advocated in the report by Carlsson and Ramphal in the 1990s. I haven't heard from the Netherlands for years about this type of reform proposal. I'd find that interesting. Then the Minister comes up with a much more motivated proposal to withdraw this membership. But once again, the OSF and PvdA groups will listen with interest to the further answers. Then we'll come to a decision tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u20	Madam President. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister for her answers. I have the feeling on a number of points that we have not yet received an answer to our questions. This concerns specifically what has happened in the world since June 2015 and the position of UNIDO in it. I would remind you once again that this SDG summit was held and that UNIDO is the only organisation specifically dedicated to SDG 9. Of course, we also had the Paris Climate Conference. In view of UNIDO's activities, it is also committed to the very broad area of climate. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for the metaphor of brothers jumping into the Meuse. I happen to have a brother like that. My mother always said to me, "If he wants to jump into the Meuse, and if there is a whirlpool or a dredging ship, stop him, for then it is not wise to jump." That is also what my group feels: I feel that we are jumping at a time when that is not yet a good time. I support Mr Schrijver's argument: should we not consider whether this can be done in a smarter and more sensible way, without that haste? My group has given the Minister the opening to consider whether a review is possible. In doing so, we would like to see whether UNIDO's role in the implementation story of the SDGs and the climate summit will be taken into account in the system of the scorecard in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u21	The Minister needs a suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u22	I call the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u23	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their second-term questions and comments. When I went back to Members' considerations, it led me not only to the conclusion that I should answer their questions in a moment, but also to the next proposal. I hope this procedure fits into the Rules of the First Chamber. We talked about the score cards: how they are built, how we need to see them, how they are put together. I offered a technical briefing. If I may interpret it that way, it has been accepted in thanks. I also see that the House of Representatives has done about three months about the treatment and that it had to be faster in this Chamber. The urgency arises from the fact that the termination of a treaty always starts on the first day of the new year, i.e. from 1 January 2017, 2018 or 2019. All these arguments lead me to suggest to the Court that this bill should be retained. In this way we can give a technical briefing first. We can do this quite quickly in the new year, in January. Perhaps this will contribute to the way in which the senators are looking for score cards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u24	In that case, I have a question for you, and you say that a treaty is cancelled on the first day of a new year. I understand that you are proposing that this bill be retained now, that a technical briefing be organised and that this Chamber be given final judgment. This would mean that the Convention could not be terminated until 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u25	That's right, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u26	If the Chamber were to vote now and say yes in a majority, it could be on 1 January 2017. However, you are asking us to keep this bill because of the opportunity to organise a technical briefing. If the House then votes in a majority in favour of the legislative proposal, please note that the Convention can only be denounced by 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u27	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u28	Can the Chamber agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u29	I thank the Minister for the proposal. We are in principle in favour of this, although it does lead me to ask for information. If I understand correctly, there is a new round for completing score cards in 2017. All this will not be ready at the technical briefing in January. Could we organise this in such a way that we can assess the new scorecards, or could we have them at our disposal in such a way that we can reach a balanced assessment somewhere in the course of 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u30	There will indeed be new score cards in the summer of 2017. That means that, just like now, the cooperation of the Chamber will be asked to deal with this in the second half of 2017, so that we will at least be in time to cancel the treaty or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u31	I'll come back to you, Minister. Mr Lintmeijer would therefore like to wait for the new scorecards. You also give a positive answer to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u32	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u33	Does this mean that the Court of Justice will not be able to deliver its judgment on the reopening of the debate on this bill in the autumn of 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u35	The Minister asked us if we could do that. There is a positive signal from my group, because I believe that this leads to better judgment. All I ask is that we do not have to prepare this debate again on 15 December, but at an appropriate time somewhere in the early autumn, so that we can get to work on it and have plenty of time for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u36	In that case, I think it would be useful to organise the technical briefing a bit more near the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u37	I suspect that my colleague Mr Overbeek will ask a question about the technical briefing and timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u38	Go ahead, Mrs. Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u39	Now, indeed, my own question: will we get a technical briefing plus an assessment of the scorecard and then have another discussion with this minister, who is probably a outgoing or with her successor? It's gonna be some kind of two-stage missile. I'm just trying to understand this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u40	The process is now crystallizing. It could look like this. First there will be a technical briefing on how the score card is built. It is therefore not about the assessment that results, but about the technique of the score cards. We will then present the new version of the opinion in the summer of 2017, based on the score cards. If the Court wishes to take that view into account, it is true that we would be able to discuss this with each other shortly after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u41	That will then be a third-term debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u43	Okay. I would like to ask one more question, but perhaps the Minister will answer the questions about the SDGs and the role of UNIDO in climate change. That's why I'm waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u44	Let me be clear: do I understand that our discussion on the system of score cards that we will have at the time of the technical briefing can also have an impact on the exercise on the score cards announced by the Minister around the summer of 2017? If not, that would be a discussion for the many.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u45	I noticed at the Chamber a need for more information on how the score cards were built up. It will be a technical briefing; not a political debate, but an official matter. The Court may then, on the basis of that technical briefing, make an assessment of the system of the score cards if it so wishes. That seems to me to be a different debate, but that is obviously up to the Chamber. Then we come on the basis of those score cards with a judgment on UNIDO. I am, of course, willing to talk about the system of score cards, but I think that we should take a look together with the President to see if all this fits in with the constitutional relationships that determine who is going to talk about what.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u46	This seems to be a passable path for my group. We are going to do so with good courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u47	The political groups I am speaking on behalf of also welcome the opening that the Minister now offers in order to arrive at a more informed decision-making process. I assume that we will be able to discuss this with this Minister in the autumn, because she has done so well in this ministerial office that I cannot imagine that the voters will let her go, especially now that she is running. But before she thinks that three times is a charm, I would like to remind her that a number of other points have also been raised. Is it right, for example, to step out of a specialised organisation, out of one of the seventeen? If one of the ministries works a little less, we would not want to put that aside so quickly. We have also discussed the possibility of EU membership. I assume that we will still be able to consider all these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u48	I am thinking of the third deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u49	I think a third term is inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u50	I'm getting a little confused about this. First, the Minister stands up for her officials and says that they work very carefully. I thought it was very good that she did and that she said that the score card was carefully built up. However, in my view, the construction of the score card is in fact being abused in order to postpone it, so that we remain a member of this club for a year longer. So it's being abused. I don't understand why the Secretary of State is in charge of that. She is the first to speak for her officials, but now she wants to give a technical briefing on it. Why didn't colleagues request a technical briefing earlier on the construction of the scorecard? In our view, this simply means postponement. I would also like to respond to Mr Schrijver, if the President will allow me. I understand that he praises his minister, but first let's wait for the election. If we keep it in line, we're just gonna pull the plug here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u51	I'm just as straight in front of the microphone as I am in the other deadlines. I don't think my position has changed. I offered a technical briefing. In that technical briefing, officials can explain how these scorecards have been built. We have agreed that the outcome of this exercise for UNIDO will be included in the third term, but not the scorecards in themselves. I think it is legitimate if the States General wants more technical information. I have every confidence, therefore, that my officials can do that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u52	For the record, according to my group, the Minister recognizes the importance of some rest and consideration in this debate. Had we had a little more time, my group would probably have requested a technical briefing together with colleagues, but because of the rush there was no room for that. It has now been created and we thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u53	I'll look around the room again. I understand that there is a majority in favour of the Minister's proposal to retain the bill and organise a technical briefing for Members of Parliament. Then we wait for the new scorecards of the summer. After that, we may be able to hold a third deadline, but that is what we need to determine at that time. The score cards can also be so beneficial to UNIDO that you might withdraw the bill? Or haven't you considered that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u54	All options are open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u55	All options are open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u56	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u57	It's the clarity that matters to me. Then we'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-7.u58	Then the conclusion is that we are keeping this legislative proposal 34473 (R2069). I'm suspending the meeting because we're moving on in the morning. So I'm suspending the sitting for a break until 9:45 a.m. tomorrow morning.
