ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u1	May I ask Members not to walk to the initiators to shake their hands? I'm just asking you to take your place. I would like to welcome the initiators, Mr Bishop, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog to the First Chamber. I have already welcomed the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the members of the CDA Group thank Mr Bisschop in particular, but also Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog, who were later appointed, for the considerable work involved in this proposal for an initiative. I think it's quite a job. This bill changes a lot of laws. The Law on Primary Education, the Law on Primary Education BES, the Law on Centres of Expertise, the Law on Secondary Education, the Law on Secondary Education BES and the Law on Educational Supervision. In the view of the CDA Group, the core of this legislative initiative proposal is the relationship and also the distinction between robustness and supervision on the one hand and advice and encouragement on the other. Article 23 of the Constitution sets out how the quality of education is ensured. This is done by means of statutory requirements. Viability requirements are objective, as far as possible regulated at the level of the law, general quality standards which have been demonstrated to be necessary for good education and which are sufficiently clear to ensure freedom of direction and establishment. The Constitution has also set a limit with the introduction of the concept of'successfulness'. Dignity requirements set out the broad lines of what is needed for good education and should ensure that schools are free in the way they think they can meet them. Subject to government supervision, education is free. Monitoring the quality of education can therefore only concern compliance with the adequacy requirements. Each education sector has its own education law. Only the education laws provide rules for good education. A school that complies with the education law does what is necessary to provide good education and is therefore entitled to funding. That was the way it worked until 2002. In sectoral laws, the supervision of education and its soundness were entrusted to the Minister and under his or her authority by the Education Inspectorate. Monitoring compliance with legal requirements was central to this. The second task of the inspection concerned the promotional task: to promote the flowering of education by advising schools on possible quality development. In 2002, that changed. This was not only because the inspection tasks were transferred from the sector laws to the Education Supervision Act, because that could be seen as a formality. What went further was that the advisory function, the incentive function, of the inspection as an independent task was removed. At that time, the legislator considered it no longer appropriate for the professional distance which the inspection was required to take in the supervision. The endeavor was also noble. After all, the schools were mature enough to make their own decisions. In addition to monitoring compliance with the legal requirements, the inspection was assigned as a new task to assess the quality of education and to make its opinion public by institution. In assessing the quality of education, the inspection shall focus not only on compliance with legal requirements, but also on other aspects of quality, to be developed in a monitoring framework to be established by the inspection. This led to terms such as "weak" and "very weak." The members of the CDA Group wonder what the consequences of this initiative legislative proposal are for the above. In the reply we read that the initiators think differently about this matter from the cabinet. At least, as we read, the initiators find it undesirable, contrary to the cabinet, that the inspection without a legal basis itself should proceed to the introduction of a quality scale and the gluing of labels such as 'good' and 'excellent'. You may also wonder if this still fits in with a stimulating and advisory task of the inspection. The bill only provides a legal basis for "very weak." Because of the particular role that learning outcomes already play in the legislation, we welcome that. In view of the substance of this initiative legislative proposal, which has been put down in a nutshell: monitoring of legally established soundness requirements and further stimulation and advice, we ask the Secretary of State if he will accept this initiative legislative proposal, even if it is not what he would have liked to see as the basis for his actions and will therefore have consequences for current and future policies, including for the assessment of the 2017 review framework of the inspection. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Depending on this, we will see what we are doing in the second term. It is clear to us that we need due diligence and a legal basis. That does not mean that only demands are added and that it does not look at what is outdated and can go away is also true. That is why we welcome the commitment of the rulers that, in accordance with the Straus/Dijkgraaf motion, they will weigh the current robustness requirements on their current application, consistency and effectiveness. With some surprise, we read that a current overview of robustness requirements is now lacking. The overview of the CDA Group, together with any changes that may be required following the said motion, would like to be reflected in this Chamber. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do this? In addition to a legal basis, virtue requirements deserve care. In the House of Representatives during the debate by means of amendments, I am referring to the amendment to item No. 17 of Mr Straus and Mr Jadnansing's report on the input of pupils into human resources policy Not because of the content, but because of the trial. We accept the answer to our written question on this, but we do not think that this deserves a fair price and, in my group's view, runs counter to the care that must be taken in setting standards. We are therefore concerned here with the principle, not the content. We cannot imagine that the initiators do not agree with us, but if we are wrong then we would like to hear it. So in this case it is also: those who remain silent agree. In conclusion, the system and practice of educational supervision in which quality judgements in addition to requirements of excellence are at odds with the text and the intention of the Constitution, namely that the freedom of education should only be restricted by legal provisions which have been demonstrated to be necessary for the sake of the soundness of education. At the same time, this initiative proposal restores the stimulating and advisory role of the inspection. We appreciate this in principle. However, the members of the CDA Group await the response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal that we are discussing today reasserts the division of responsibility between and the role of administrations and schools on the one hand and supervision on the other. The legislative proposal is based on the fact that the statutory systems in which there are also quality aspects in addition to requirements have led to blurring of inspection tasks. The members of the VVD Group can endorse the core of the bill. The primary responsibility for the quality of education lies with the schools themselves. So it's the story of the school. At the same time, the necessary safeguards are built in by monitoring essential framework conditions. We thank the initiators for the answer in the reply and the government for the cabinet response to the preliminary report. We have some additional questions. They concern, firstly, proportionality. At present, there are relatively many standards that schools have to meet. The scope and relative importance of specific legislative provisions for the final quality of education vary greatly. The Education Council points out that new requirements must be handled with extreme restraint. The initiators consider it important, according to the reply, on page 2, that the existing robustness requirements should be periodically reviewed against the need for them. There is a risk of constantly adding requirements, but that requirements will not be removed when they are no longer necessary. The initiators note that there are fundamental reflections on various aspects of education legislation. They refer, among other things, to the discussion on the fusion test and the reflection on the scope of the core objectives under the leadership of the Platform on Education2032. They hope that these pathways will ultimately contribute to promoting compact and targeted education legislation serving the quality of education, for which freedom of education is an important condition. In technical terms, the members of my group can agree with the response of the initiators, particularly in the intention to reduce the number of requirements, but their concerns have not been fully addressed. If more control at quality and quality levels is desirable, there is a great temptation to further strengthen the nature and number of requirements. How to ensure restraint? Hope and intention include no guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u4	I have a question for Mr Bruijn. He says that there are so many requirements that there must be restraint. I can imagine. I heard the previous speaker, Mrs De Vries-Legge, say that there is no current list of the number of requirements. Should the understanding of the number of requirements and the list not precede the judgment of this Chamber? Isn't that the right order? Perhaps after that we will come to that conclusion and propose to be cautious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u5	I fully agree with that, although I have not yet come to the conclusion that there are too many. I used the words "very much."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u6	That's entrapment. The qualification'many','very much' or 'too much' suggests, especially if you then attach it to the opinion to be cautious, that we have a criterion, that there is a certain limit that we should not exceed, whether qualitative or quantitative. This is not, of course, a question of whether it is necessary to add to a number of points justification requirements and whether it is necessary to delete others and the like. I do not think we disagree on the nature of the weighting. I'm just asking a question about the order. Should we not first have an insight into this and then perhaps draw a conclusion about what to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u7	I very much agree with Mr Ganzevoort that we should first have an inventory, moreover, in accordance with the motion for a resolution adopted in the House of Representatives on the adequacy requirements and their evaluation, before we can conclude that there are too many. As I said, hope and intention do not include a guarantee. Can we not do more than hope that pathways such as Platform Education2032 will ultimately contribute to promoting compact and targeted education legislation? How do the initiators see this? What do they base their hopes on? In the view of the initiators, is the periodic review of the need for adequacy sufficient assurance? Can the Government promise that it will exercise restraint in the setting of new requirements? Is the government prepared to agree to include the development of the package of adequacy requirements in the legislative review which, in accordance with another motion adopted in the House of Representatives, will take place for four years after, I believe, four years? I come to the duties of inspection. A concern of the VVD members concerns the lack of a reflection on the impact of the distinction between judgements and incentives. Technically, the assessment of the inspection is limited to compliance with the adequacy requirements. But how does a teacher and a parent read an inspection report? The findings of the inspection on other aspects of quality than the adequacy requirements, which lead to recommendations for improvement, are of course also seen as an assessment: if there is anything to improve, something will be wrong. Or, as the proposers themselves write in the reply to page 5, it is not excluded that findings in the context of the stimulating task may sometimes be taken into account by those concerned. The Council of State also doubts whether the proposals for a clearer definition of the supervisory role of the inspection of the incentive function are adequate. The promotional task can, by its very nature, also have a regulatory effect, as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has pointed out in the preliminary report. The response shows the intention of the initiators to distinguish more clearly the controlling and stimulating role of the inspection. This considers the VVD Group to be a great success. Also sounds from the field, such as the PO Council, go in that direction. We can endorse the desire to make that distinction crystal clear, as expressed in response to first written questions from D66 and the Labour Party. At the same time, there are still two issues of concern to us. The first is that legal requirements are not always unambiguous. The law is or will not be complied with. What is the reason for cesorship, for example, for providing a continuous development path? As a result, the inspection aims to restore to schools that, in addition to whether or not they comply with the law, they also want to apply a kind of "excessive" category of "complying to a large extent with the law" as an elaboration of the new valuation framework. Is this now stimulating or controlling, my group asks the initiators and also the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr Bruijn, like me, notes that there are still questions about the adequacy requirements. I have read that the initiators say that they do not respond to the requirements, although they do have to be tested. Does Mr Bruijn have any suggestions for those who should do so and the deadline for doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u9	I certainly have suggestions for that. I will come back to it later in my speech, if the President will allow me. Secondly, the clear distinction seems to be clouded by the desire to work with predicates and labels on other aspects of quality, as well as in the case of robustness requirements. They end up in a semantic discussion. Is the finding "may be better" not read and experienced as a judgment "insufficient or weak"? When it comes to whether a differentiated assessment leads to an improvement in the quality of education, only one third of school leaders and administrators believe that this will be stimulating. This is also mentioned on page 3 of the policy response to, inter alia, the evaluation of the 2013 monitoring framework of 19 May 2015. The VO Council is reluctant to see such predicates play a disproportionate role in the choice of schools between parents and pupils, with significant implications for the relations between schools in the region. On the other hand, my group is certainly sensitive to the fact that a predicate can also be an incentive. "Well done" is from the mouth of a grandfather to his grandchild an undisputed loving stimulus, so I say to the proposers, of whom at least a few I know are fervent nanny grandfather. You can guess which one. Which one of them? That's what it was about this morning. Now one could argue that the government is not a grandfather, but education should also stimulate. As soon as quality falls behind and a school is weak, the government has to make demands. A weak school must even be placed under curatel, as I read in one of the liberal electoral programmes, which was also very recognizable to my party on this particular section. I also read there that parents are choosing a school more and more on the basis of the quality predicate. I do not read that this predicate must therefore be abolished or prevented. In fact, it is thanks to the Pechtold motion (31700-VIII, no. 126) of 18 December 2008 that schools may have the predicate "very weak" for a year. As an alternative, the PO Council proposes that the findings be returned to schools only through qualitative reporting and thus without labelling. How do the initiators and the government view this? I have a more general but no less important question about inspection tasks and the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u10	This seems to me to be an issue for today's debate. Mr De Vries-Leggeby also mentioned it. How does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats see the difference in interpretation that the government and the initiators seem to have of the desirability, legality or possibility of that quality scale?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u11	I think I have just outlined the advantages and disadvantages. I have asked questions about this to the proposers and the government. I'd like to wait for the answers to that before making a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u12	Thanks, but this is about something else. I am more concerned with the situation in which a legislative proposal is before me, where the initiators on the one hand and the government on the other give a different interpretation when it comes to the scope of this bill. I am not asking you to take a stand on this, but to judge the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u13	I would first like to await the replies of the proposers and the government before concluding that the legislative proposal would be too unclear at the moment. With regard to inspection tasks and quality of education, I would like to ask a more general but not less important question. My group welcomes the statement by the initiators on page 3 of the reply that schools are encouraged to be active when their own vision and input are central. This seems to my group to be entirely in line with the omnipresent and Chamberwide, that is to say, Housewide, praised, yes, embracing the Dijsselbloem report. Grosso modo concluded in that report that what, i.e. final terms or learning objectives, should be better defined throughout the education system, the way in which, thus, the question of how learner, teacher and institution achieve that final objective should be left more to the concerned parties themselves and whether, therefore, the question of whether these final objectives should be achieved should be better and more innovatively assessed. How do the initiators consider the present legislative amendment, at least the proposal to that effect, to be contrary to these conclusions of the aforementioned report? Is this law Dijsselbloem-proof? Are we really going to monitor what is happening and what is happening, or are we going to restrict ourselves to doing so? As stated on page 3 of the reply, the proposal takes the school plan as the starting point for examining the inspection. But isn't it a matter of knowing how? The government sees, as expressed in its letter to the First Chamber of 29 January 2016, a good school as a school where teachers give good education under favourable school conditions, so that all students achieve optimal returns in all areas of learning and education. Should quality control, bearing in mind 'Dijsselbloem', not be more focused on those returns in terms of learning gains or added value than on the conditions? The use of learning gains and added value as yield parameters in education has been the subject of excellent research by various bodies, not least the Ministry itself, in recent years. The use of learning gains in the pilots had an incentive effect on the quality of education, as mentioned in pages 54 and 55 of the relevant inspection report. How do the initiators and the government view this? In the light of this discussion, should supervision no longer be directed towards the question of whether they maintain their profession to a sufficient extent according to standards which they themselves establish and evolve in consultation, rather than how they do so exactly and what standards they apply? If so, is the rapid and complete implementation of the platform provided by the education cooperative and by the State Secretary no longer necessary than ever? Finally, on this point, my group will be able to support the initiators, also bearing in mind 'Dijsselbloem', in their reasoning in the reply that the government can only refrain from formulating and applying a broad concept of quality, since by definition they also include philosophical beliefs, educational-dactical visions and personal preferences. But why did the initiators not follow the advice section of the Council of State in the suggestion that the concept of quality should be deleted altogether? The argument put forward by the initiators in the reply to page 5, that the term "quality" has acquired an important place in education and society, is relatively generic to my group's members. The legislative proposal differs from the current situation with regard to objections and appeals. The new bill states that schools which are judged to be very weak may object and appeal. At present, directors can only lodge a complaint with the inspection of defective work. No objection or appeal may be lodged against the opinion of the inspection which is weak or very weak. This can only be done against a sanction, for example a financial sanction, as a result of that judgment. In reply to written questions from my group, the initiators point out that, when schools are forced to use the legal protection offered, they are not exempt from the responsibility to work for improvement. No suspensory effect would arise from the lodging of an appeal and an objection. Indeed, my group notes that the principle in the law is that objection and appeal do not have suspensive effect. This is laid down in Article 6 (16) of the General Administrative Law Act. Objections to a decision may also have the effect of earlier consultations between the parties in order to reach a solution. It could be a stick behind the door for that conversation. In addition, the possibility of appeal and objection also offers legal protection. In itself, this cannot be opposed in principle. But schools themselves seem to be looking at this differently. In their view, putting energy into appeal and objection may mean holding up the dialogue and delaying the acceptance and improvement phases. According to field parties, practice teaches that you can only spend energy once: either in the legal battle or in the improvement of practice. We are in favour of solutions through an intensive, good dialogue, with the legal process as the last instrument. A judge's judgment can always be sought, as the Secretary of State also states in his letter of 11 September 2015. In this sense, legal protection is thus already guaranteed, even without this change of law and this to the satisfaction of the field. In any case, it is remarkable that the field itself, through both the PO Council and the VO Council, expresses its concern about judicialisation and makes the request to reconsider the possibility of appeal and appeal. I would like to ask the initiators, but also the government, about their views on this. In particular, I would like to ask what control a participation council has in order to force the management to object and appeal. Can the school ask the inspection to pass a judgment or a new judgment after, for example, a year? Can there be a guarantee that schools will always start improving the quality of education immediately? I should also like to ask the government to explicitly include the commitment, four years after its introduction, in the review of the law, in line with Amendment No 2. 16 members Straus and Dijkgraaf. My group also asks for confirmation of the commitment in the Government's letter to this Chamber of 29 January 2016 to send the legal review, together with the assessments of the adequacy requirements, to this House. My group looks forward with interest to the reaction of the initiators and those of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u14	I think that in the last paragraph the answer to the question I asked was hidden. Then who will be responsible for assessing the validity of these requirements and at what time? In now and four years? By who?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u15	I have not yet set a specific deadline for this. I intend to do so in my second term if the government and/or proposers themselves do not come up with such a deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u16	Then it is clear that the question is clearly on the table behind me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u17	Mr. Chairman. It is a great thing that every child has the right to good education in the Netherlands: teachers, school leaders and school boards, but also the Minister and the Secretary of State for Education each have a role to ensure that students, students and parents can trust that education in the Netherlands is organised in such a way that it contributes to the development of talents of all children. It is not a question of monitoring, but of the way in which supervision is organised and of the substantive emphasis placed on it. It is therefore a good thing that we are discussing today the initiative proposed by Mr Bisschop, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog, with a view to more effective regulation of the supervision of education in primary, secondary and special education. As a PvdA group, we support the view of the initiators that teachers and school leaders should have room to practice their profession and that strengthening their professional space contributes to promoting the quality of education. There is a mandate for the politicians and the government to put teachers and school leaders in a better position. This will only succeed if we resist the tendency to restrict the scope of action of schools over and over again and on other grounds through legislation and regulation. The Parliamentary Dijsselbloem Committee has already put its finger on this issue in 2008: the government must deal with the "what" and the education itself about the "how." Mr Bruijn has already mentioned this. As a follow-up, the Dijsselbloem Commission recommended that the education inspection should focus primarily on checking the legally established soundness requirements and that additional quality requirements should be set as little as possible. The PvdA Group regards the initiative proposal that we are discussing today as an important contribution to achieving this. My group would like to thank the authors for their initiative and the written answers they have given to the questions that have been asked about the legislative proposal before us. On a number of points, my group still needs clarification in order to better understand the implications of the bill in daily teaching practice, the substantive frameworks used and the role of the education inspection when this law is introduced. The legislative proposal aims to strengthen the distinction between the quality of education requirements based on Article 23 of the Constitution in the form of robustness requirements in the different education laws, and other quality standards that are not enshrined in the education laws. The assessment of the inspection shall focus on the adequacy requirements. Viability requirements should be objective, measurable and proportionate. After all, they frame the role of the education inspection. The proposers propose that the inspection should retain a stimulating role in terms of quality developments. The PvdA Group has a number of questions about this approach. In recent years we have seen a positive development in education, with a significant boost to quality development from the teachers and schools themselves. Fortunately, it is becoming increasingly common for teachers and schools to work on improving quality through intervision, mutual visitation and their own research into the quality of education and the learning environment. It is good to see that students and parents are increasingly involved, although the PvdA Group believes that this can be done even more and better. How do the initiators assess the activities currently undertaken in the field of education in the field of quality improvement? What makes the initiators of their legislative proposal stick not only to the evaluating role, but also to the stimulating role of the inspection, while at the same time indicating that this double role leads to confusion in the field of education? We would like to have clarity on this point from the initiators. In its introduction to the OCW Committee of this Chamber, the Education Council indicated that it considered that there should be a three-dimensional assessment of the quality of education. The council recommends, among other things, a transition from a narrow to a broad view of educational quality, involving qualification (social equipment), socialisation (tradition, culture and practice (Bildung) and person formation (adult and democracy). One sees a role of inspection for all three elements. How do the initiators view this? Is the view of the Education Council on the theme of "quality" compatible with a two-dimensional distinction between assessment and promotion, especially since part of the elements that the Education Council appoints are not easy to translate into size and number? We are curious about the way in which the initiators, but also the Secretary of State, look at this, and what that means for the robustness requirements to be established. The core of the legislative proposal is that schools are assessed solely on clear, legislative-based merits. As far as my group is concerned, this begins with complete clarity about the nature, extent and content of these requirements. In the reply, the initiators indicated that they were surprised that there was no current review of the adequacy requirements. Mrs De Vries has already spoken about this. They recommended that this review be developed in the short term. In the written replies, the government indicates that the adequacy requirements for the summer of 2016 are weighed on contemporary application, consistency and effectiveness of supervision, and that consideration is given to whether the adequacy requirements need to be adjusted. The PvdA Group would like to know from the Secretary of State what the government is going to take into account in the development of the adequacy requirements. Is the recently presented vision Our Education 2032 already playing a role in this? My group believes that this legislative proposal will only be feasible if a current set of robustness requirements has been established. In addition, my group believes that schools should have at least one year to meet the requirements. Do the proposers subscribe to this view? I would like to ask the Secretary of State if, in view of the foregoing, the government is willing and able to submit the updated review of adequacy requirements to the two Chambers for July 2016, so that these requirements can form the basis for monitoring as of 2017. What date does the government propose to introduce this bill? Among other things, the Council of State advises to make sharp choices in terms of reliability requirements and quality requirements. In line with the bill we are discussing today, it is up to the education inspector to translate the adequacy requirements into a so-called research framework. The inspection website shows how she is preparing for her new role. It is very much to be appreciated that the education inspection is responding in good time to the legislative proposal and is already considering the implications for both the procedural and substantive aspects of its work. At the same time, the draft research framework for 2017 raises questions for my group. As far as we can see, no sharp distinction is made between the requirements of quality and the other aspects of quality. Does the Secretary of State share our view that it would be desirable to focus the research framework specifically on the evaluating aspects of supervision? If so, what opportunities does the government see for achieving this? If not, how does the Secretary of State intend to avoid confusion in the field of education about the difference between the evaluating and quality-enhancing aspects in the work of the inspection? My group also wonders whether the legislative proposal has implications for the nature, content and significance of the subject-matter studies carried out by the inspection. We would like clarification from the Secretary of State on this. The bill allows schools to appeal to the administrative courts against an inspection report on the basis of which the school receives the "very weak education" designation. The PvdA Group considers this fair given the far-reaching effects of a negative inspection judgment, including image damage for the school. However, we wonder what effect opening up this legal path will have on how the inspection will do its work and how schools will prepare for an inspection visit. It is conceivable that the inspection, even more than is already the case, will place the emphasis on the basis of its "proven" opinion. This could mean that the education inspection, even more than it is now, is going to make demands on what schools lay down in what way. Thus, in the eyes of the PvdA fraction, an undesirable bureaucracy may arise. How do the initiators and the government intend to prevent this? What opportunities do they see for making justice possible and at the same time preventing unnecessary bureaucracy? The proposal of the PvdA Group is to give this point an explicit place in the planned review of the law. Do the initiators agree with us on this point and is the government prepared to pay particular attention to this issue in the evaluation? I'll come to a conclusion. For good education, it is important that teachers and school leaders are given the opportunity to organise their teaching programmes in such a way that the development of children is central to them and that they themselves decide how education is to be completed. This bill can give an important impetus to this. It is essential that it is absolutely clear what requirements are decisive in the assessment of schools, that the role of the education inspection is completely clear and that the path now underway is not left behind again. In doing so, there is a task for ourselves, for politics and for the education authorities to exercise restraint or to resist, rather, the temptation to translate judgements on quality aspects of education too easily into additional assessment requirements. We look forward to the answers of the proposers and the Secretary of State in order to better understand the safeguards that the legislative proposal has in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u18	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Nooren's last paragraph resonates a bit with me. He's really taken me from the heart. First of all, I would like to congratulate the authors on the initiative proposal before us today. The initiators try to break off the checkout education, where only the learning results are used as a clear measuring bar and in which all other qualities as a goal are poorly measurable for inspection. As a means of doing this, the proposers use the school plan, an instrument which has been in existence for many years and which, indeed, generally leads to a dormant existence in the drawer, as the applicants pointed out in their reply. But the school plan should actually tell the core of the school's education. The school plan should reflect the passion of the school. Education is so much more than the Cito madness. In my view, that is also the essence of the message of the proposers. The school with the best Cito results doesn't necessarily have to be the best school. I say nothing new when I say that a large part of the child's education takes place at school. There are many other aspects that play an equal role to the learning outcomes. The best performing school in my hometown of Haarlem is the Choir School. I've mentioned that school before. Until last year, my youngest child was at that school. It makes sense that this school is the best performing school because that's where the highest Cito scores are made. However, the school spends 200 hours of the lessons on music. There is a pre-selection before the children get there, because they need to be able to get through the learning material faster. By definition, does that make it the best school? No, it's not. Probably because of this pre-selection, the better-learning children will be at that school. Moreover, there is a great deal of criticism of this school when it comes to bullying policy. That should come back to the school plan, but okay, I think I'm clear. Raising the test culture also creates fearful parents. In the po we hear more and more that parents make every effort to get their children a higher advice. Knowledge is the primary objective and not the development of the child. That's weird, because you'd say you want to give your kid the best. The best award is not always the highest possible education; that is looking at the child. The proposers want to pay more attention to the whole range of school offerings, but how do you measure the content choices made by a school in this area? That is what the proposers have chosen the school plan for. This legislative proposal is central to the monitoring function of the education inspection. The inspection should start checking by starting the conversation on the basis of the school plan. In this way, the school can again pursue its own policies and place its own emphasis on education. This, in my group's view, brings the joy of education back where it belongs, namely at the school itself. That is also the approach of the proposers; not the inspection determines what is right, but the Chamber establishes the basis and the school finishes the cake, just to put it metaphorically. This bill allows the inspection to check whether the paper school plan is working properly in practice. That too is to be welcomed, because there are still parents who choose on the basis of a school plan and who are disappointed in the course of the year, because in practice the school plan is still sleeping in the drawer. You can't do that with this bill anymore. The authors of the bill are critical of the 75 indicators. I have gone through it once and I agree with the authors that it contains very vague definitions, which also do not guarantee a good result. Having a bullying policy, I mentioned that just now, after all, does not guarantee that it is being implemented. Also, some indicators are not always in the best interests of the child. It is precisely the latter that sometimes wrings with something that should be part of good education, namely having the best interests of the child. Maybe it's better for that kid not to go through the pot in eight years but in nine or ten years. Let me stick to that last example. Do I understand correctly that the proposers say that this is indeed possible as long as the school can argue why it considers it to be in the best interests of the child and that this is not happening, because the quality of education is poor? I'd like to get a response from the proposers. The proposers further brushed up the adequacy requirements. They should be central to the monitoring and not the results of the Cito test. My party fights for equality of people. Equal opportunities are part of equality. This means that access to important issues such as education must be equal for all, but also that education must be of equal quality. In short, every child is entitled to good education. It's the government's job to guarantee that. It is not the responsibility of the government to tell the parent that that school or school is even better than the other. I liked the oil bulb test equation in the answer of the proposers very much. The government ensures the control of food safety and the general daily newspaper can say which oil ball it likes best, while the oil ball knows that the flavors still differ. The oil bulb test is a consumer test; the consumer determines. So let the consumer decide which of these fine schools are or have their preference. The predicate "excellent school" feeds the performance-oriented parents, whom I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. We will soon have parents who are not only fighting to get VMBO-t advice, but also parents who want to get that child at that excellent school. I'm gonna tell you an anecdote. Until this school year, I taught on a separate learning path for highly gifted children on an atheneum. In an interval, I spoke to an English teacher. She was very busy doing her exams. I asked her if she had a lot of work and if she was busy. She told me she had more work this year because a blind pupil had come. This student came from the north of North Holland and had obtained a Havo diploma. She very much wanted to go to the vwo, but she was blind and no school in her region wanted to hire her because she was blind. My school immediately said "yes" to this question. In my view, that's an excellent school. The future and the recognition given by this school to this individual pupil cannot be measured; no list of demands can be met. In fact, the attention this child demands cannot be given to the extra quality requirements, but still, no, this is a school to be proud of. This indicates that predicates say nothing and that they can work counter-productively. An excellent school will be given more freedom to organise its education, but in my view this bill will do much better. Do the proposers agree with me that the room that schools get through this bill is more effective and accessible to a larger group than the few schools that are going to be called excellent? If so, do the proposers agree with me that the practice of "excellent school" is contrary to the principles of this law? I have a motion on this, but I would like to await the comments of the authors. I'm rounding up. My group congratulates the proposers and the steps they intend to take with this bill to restore education to the school. We are in favour of the proposal and we hope that the predicate 'excellent school' will soon be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. I have the floor this afternoon on behalf of the Christian Union. So we can see that my group has more than doubled this afternoon. I am pleased to congratulate the authors of this proposal on behalf of both groups. We hope for a nice discussion in this debate. In 1987 I was as a young trouser director of the primary school De Wegwijzer in Berkenwoude. Between noon I participated in a game of dodgeball on the school square. And then suddenly a somewhat older gentleman stood on the sidewalk of the school building: the inspector. I believe it was that time that I got into a conversation with him about a number of parts of the school work plan, as was mentioned at the time. To my surprise, he began to explain on a number of subjects how this should be included in the school work plan and what approach was needed. At first I listened with awe, of course, until it got too gritty. After all, if I agreed to everything, I'd be getting a lot on my mind. Hence, at some point I put on the naughty shoes and said: "That could indeed be one of the possible ways." The conversation stopped for a moment. And after that, I didn't have any more trouble. I was thinking of this incident in the run-up to the examination of this bill, which aims to promote the quality of education along two important routes, namely by better guaranteeing the freedom of professionals and more effectively regulating the exercise of supervision. This bill is accompanied by compliments for the proposers. They have managed to bring out clearly where the shoe is wringing when it comes to the professional space for those who actually shape and content education, namely the man and the woman in front of the classroom. And in the explanatory memorandum, the applicants have convincingly demonstrated that there has been a distortion in the relationship between government, inspection and schools in terms of supervision. The resulting mix of robustness requirements and quality aspects has led to an inspection that mainly assesses quality standards that often have no legal basis, in the sense that they are not part of the education laws. This leads to problems, such as those which are to be held accountable or not, in the didactical freedom for the professional in which the inspection is directed or in the pressure by acting as a norm in the field of profit-oriented work. They're all warning lights that the proposers put on orange. And quite rightly, especially in view of the framework of Article 23 of the Constitution on freedom of education, which the SGP and CU groups like to uphold. Hence this legislative proposal, in which, in addition to the structure of education supervision, the content of this monitoring must be put in place. The bill does not want to interfere with the core tasks of the inspection, but puts them back in the right order and brings them back to the right proportions. The first key task is to assess compliance with the adequacy requirements. This concerns compliance with the rules laid down by or under the educational laws. It is therefore a question of the measure adopted by the legislator. The assessment of this task may have legal consequences. The second task of inspection is the stimulating task. The aim is to promote the development of education. This is therefore not normal and has no mandatory character. There can be no legal consequences. That is clear, but it is also clear that the proposers consider that the inspection in recent years had mixed and even partially replaced both core tasks. I have a question for the authors on this point. How can it be ensured that new legislation does not give rise to any ambiguity as to the task of inspection? In other words, is it the intention of future legislative proposals always to establish whether these are issues that have to be assessed in terms of validity or whether they are more of a stimulant task? I also have a question for the government: how should the legislator ensure in future that monitoring and encouraging each other does not bite but strengthen each other? Apparently, the proposers did not consider it sufficient to focus only on key tasks, but suggested removing the quality aspects of the Education Supervision Act (WOT) and maintaining the adequacy requirements, such as educational time requirements, core objectives, citizenship, learning outcomes, pupil care and examination. It is striking that the initiators now do not say anything about the validity requirements, but do think they should be reviewed. From the point of view of due diligence, they shall refrain from any judgment thereon. The question is whether this has been sensible, because the inspection is now developing an assessment framework or research framework that raises questions. I'll get back to you on that. For now, I have the following questions to the government on this point. What is the deadline for the re-examination of due diligence requirements, who will be involved, what are important framework conditions and how will Parliament be informed about the final result? An important question is how the inspection actually evaluates it. The terms "sufficient" and "not sufficient" are actually confusing. After all, the question is whether or not schools have complied with the standards. By putting the term "sufficient" on it, a kind of judging figure is given: a 6 or a 7. But that immediately means that it seems necessary to search for words for an 8 or higher. The same applies to the judgment "not sufficient', with the figures down. This is all the more so since the applicants want to offer the opportunity to act against a negative inspection report by considering the inspection report as a decision within the meaning of the General Administrative Law Act. That offers the opportunity to appeal. Moreover, the applicants wish to offer this possibility only if the judgment is "very weak'. The question is what is actually meant. Has the school failed to meet the requirements and is it very weak, or is the school not scoring enough and can it even reach very weak levels? The question also arises in the other direction: if "sufficient" is spoken of, it can also be seen as negative as long as the predicate "good" or "excellent" is also handled by the inspection. How do the proposers view this? On this point, I would ask the government: would it not be better to work with other terms when it comes to assessing the validity of the requirements? In the end, is it really a question of whether the requirements have been met or not? To sum up, the proposers argue that the legislative proposal leads to four principles relating to the monitoring of the quality of education. These are the following points in short. 1. Monitoring the quality of education focuses on compliance with legal requirements. 2. Any failure to comply with a legal requirement is inadmissible and requires proportionate measures. 3. Minimum learning results are particularly important. Therefore, the starting point is that there is "very weak education" where there is also a lack of compliance with one or more legal requirements in relation to the lack of learning outcomes. 4. In its stimulating role, inspection can promote the development of education. In this context, there are neither obligations nor sanctions. I believe that the authors of this bill have managed to incorporate the legislative changes in such a way that these four objectives can be met. My question to the government is whether it considers it to be the same. Is this bill achieving the intended objective, namely space for professionals and effective supervision? And now for the practice. It is striking that the inspection in the 2017 draft research frameworks, which were open to consultation until 29 February, thus until yesterday, fully anticipates this initiative legislative proposal. A first look in this 76-page document gives the impression that the inspection embraces this bill in a manner of speaking and uses it as a starting point. However, as soon as you read on, all kinds of bells start ringing. I'll just mention a few points. The legislative proposal focuses on the school plan, to which Mrs Gerkens has just referred. However, this is not reflected in the research framework. Nor is it clearly stated whether certain components are covered by the adequacy requirements or by the stimulating tasks of the inspection. And the inspection uses terms other than those in the bill. For example, she refers to the "guarantee function" rather than to the evaluating function of the inspection. She also talks about the "other aspects of quality" while the bill deliberately deletes this wording. Do you think that's wise? Different terms are used in the assessment framework: judgements are "insufficient," "sufficient" and "good." That is not true of what is part of the validity requirements, namely whether they are met, yes or no. The judgments also distinguish between "satisfying" and "satisfying in a convincing way." I don't think you're gonna do it, or you're not gonna do it. In the valuations, part of the stimulating tasks, terms are used as "may be better," "sufficient" and "good," as well as the "excellent" designation. There are therefore three different qualifications of the quality side by side. In the case of "judgments," this is different than in the case of "values" and "predicates." The question is whether this is clear for school leaders and school boards. Why can it not be made clear at a glance to those involved in the distinction between legal requirements and other indicators? Whatever raises questions is this. The legislative proposal draws a sharp line between judgements based on legal requirements and findings based on additional indicators. However, on the basis of the draft research framework, both groups seem to be mixed again in the judgment "good." How is that even possible? Can we assume that the research frameworks will be brought into line with the explanatory notes on the frameworks, namely that the term 'good' is only used as a so-called valuation? In short, it seems that the inspection has embraced the bill, but has not yet fully understood it. Would the groups of the SGP and the Christian Union like to receive an answer to the following question: do the authors of the developed research frameworks feel that the inspection has done justice to their own initiative proposal? If not, what should happen? That is the same question I would like to put to the government. Back to the bill. The government's reaction shows that the present initiative proposal fits within the spirit of the coalition agreement. This bill clarifies the lines of education supervision. It has to stay that way. In order to monitor this, the groups of Christian Union and SGP consider it important to evaluate in some time whether the theory of the law is consistent with the practice of supervision. In particular, to assess whether the control and incentive tasks are properly carried out and distinguished. Is the government prepared to evaluate this change of law and its implementation and, if so, what period of time? I look forward to the answers of the proposers and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u20	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank and congratulate the initiators. Their years of experience in and around education are recognizable in their efforts to further strengthen the role of inspection in education monitoring. This is an important subject, which is directly the result of the Constitution. It states not only that education is a subject of the continuing concern of the government, but also more specifically that the government supervises it and requires it by law. Those core elements of Article 23 of the Constitution are further developed in a balance sheet to ensure, on the one hand, the freedom to provide education and, on the other hand, the quality and financial basis. That is where the discussion begins. The initiators argue that the distinction between quality and robustness should be strengthened in order to reduce the improper effects of inspection action. Quite specifically, if the inspection has an opinion on the quality of education at a school, then it must be clear whether that is a valid opinion on a legal basis or a constructive, quality-promoting advice. The first is the strictly supervisory role, the second a secondary task of the inspection. Now it is tempting to have a philosophical debate on the relationship between quality and validity as concepts and on the question, which I have also put in writing, whether quality advice is intrinsically normal. I understand from the answers that this is mainly a question of choice of words and semantics. The fact that we are not intrinsically opposed to this is a great deal. It seems more useful to focus here on the legal division of responsibilities and freedoms. And then my group is in favour of the starting point of this bill. The better distinction between quality assessment and quality promotion can indeed help to improve the content and freedom of the discussion on quality promotion with the inspection, because that conversation is not under pressure from an assessment by the inspection. Well, you better hope so. The exciting question is, of course, whether this is actually happening or whether we will see that only a number of tough requirements are being considered and that the rest of the conversation is seen as less relevant. That would be a great pity for my group; not to distinguish between the two tasks, but to do so if the promotional task disappears behind the horizon. We would therefore like to hear how the government will prevent the work of the inspection from being limited to formal supervision. How will the promotion of quality be achieved if this bill is adopted? In this context, we also have a question about the disclosure of the incentive advice of the inspection. My group understands that this is not published in the same way as the judgment on the merits. But how is that advice shared? Is it accessible only to the school management or also to the participation bodies? The opinions fall within the scope of the WED, I ask the government. In short, how do we ensure that these opinions can play a proper role and how do we prevent the constructive and stimulating opinions of the inspection being ignored, while at the same time not wanting these to become judgmental statements? I would like to hear an explanation of this. In the written round we also had an exchange of views on the quality concept used. The initiators supported the importance of a broad concept of quality, but they directly pointed out that the government should not use such a broad concept of quality, because "a broad concept of quality by definition also includes philosophical beliefs, educational-dactic visions and personal preferences," I quote. "In order to be able to do justice to the diversity of society, the government is obliged to use a narrower quality concept, which only includes the necessary conditions for a sufficient level of quality" and the rest is at school. The school can then be consulted on the broad concept of quality laid down in, for example, the school plan, but that is only in the context of promoting quality. With all due respect for the intentions, this raises a few questions for my group. Firstly, the legislative proposal limits the indicator "learning outcomes" to learning outcomes in the Dutch language and in mathematics and mathematics. This is not only a much narrower quality concept, but it even seems to go all the way back to the idea that only language and counting really matter and that all the broader and more forming subjects are second-class. We thought and hoped that this thought had finally been reduced. Can the initiators explain again why they choose to do so, while they really take a different tone in the explanatory statement? Secondly, my group would like to hear more precisely how far that legal basis of supervision is going. The school plan is a legal obligation and the same applies to the key objectives, including paying attention to sexuality and sexual diversity, for example. Does this mean that they are valid requirements? How far does that go? The initiators suggest that in both the explanatory statement and the response. I quote: 'The legal framework on issues such as citizenship and sexual diversity remains unchanged and therefore the scope for monitoring this remains unchanged'. Does that mean that the inspection does have a narrower scope for monitoring them and that it gives an opinion on them? Or do they fall outside the judgment on the adequacy requirements? Or is it true that the school plan falls within the scope of the judgment, in so far as it relates to the legal requirements, but that it does not fall within the scope of the requirements of the law? That question is relevant to us when considering how much is going to change de facto. As a result of this question, my group would like to have a clear overview of exactly what is and is not part of the adequacy requirements. Perhaps the Secretary of State will answer this question best. What rules are laid down to determine when a particular aspect will be legally anchored as a requirement of correctness? I can easily imagine that all kinds of groups in the House of Representatives, including those of my own party, have their own wish lists, all of which now have to be translated into legislation in order to influence the supervisory framework. If that's going to happen, isn't the cure potentially worse than the ailment? Of course, I am not referring to my own party's proposals, but to those of others. My group would like clarification from the initiators and the Secretary of State on whether or not the inspection should work with differentiated judgements. For the judgment "very weak" a legal basis is laid in this bill because of its large legal effects. For the other judgments, that doesn't happen. In fact, the initiators are explicitly of the opinion that this is undesirable. If I understand them correctly, their proposal to anchor the judgements of the inspection in formal legislation, if this law has been passed, will even stand in the way of making these other judgments. However, the Secretary of State seems to think that this would give all the room to continue with differentiated judgements. During the examination in the Lower House, the initiators chose the strictly formal reasoning that this bill is not about that. Now I understand that they do not want to beat the Secretary of State, while they also want his support for this proposal, but my group finds this unsatisfactory and believes that the formal reasoning of the initiators here falls into formalistic hair-clubbing, I say with love. The whole bill aims to limit the public judgement of the inspection to those matters for which there is a legal basis. According to the initiators, there is no legal basis for those differentiated judgments, is there? In assessing the scope and therefore the impact of this bill, it is essential that this Chamber be clarified as to whether the absence of a legal basis for judgements "weak" to "excellent" leaves the government and then the inspection room for further use. I can well imagine both the arguments for the use of these quality judgements and the arguments against them. However, the outcome of today's discussion should at least be that this Chamber makes clear whether formal legislation is necessary if the government also wants the other judgments to be used by the inspection. That is why my group would like both the initiators and the Secretary of State to respond to this difference of opinion which appears to exist between them and which is missing when it comes to the passing of this bill. The importance of this legislative proposal lies for my group in the clearer definition of the freedoms and responsibilities of schools, the formal supervisory and stimulating role of inspection and the role of the formal legislator in terms of framework. However, the uncertainties about the scope of the law and the implementation of the stimulating role of the inspection and the differences of opinion on the differentiated judgements still need to be resolved. My group is therefore very much looking forward to the answers of the initiators and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u21	I have a very enlightening question for Mr Ganzevoort. If I understand correctly, he asked if the school plan is also covered by the adequacy requirements. Is it not true that the balance lies in the fact that the school plan is going to consist of compulsory and non-compulsory parts and that compulsory parts of them are indeed covered by the requirements, without supervision, and that the non-compulsory parts are covered by the incentive activities? If so, what does Mr Ganzevoort mean by his question whether the school plan is also covered by the adequacy requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u22	That was exactly my question. It is true that the school plan is included as far as the mandatory parts are concerned. But if so, what exactly is the status of the school plan as such? Do the other parts have to be in there? Is it necessary to check whether or not the other parts are in it as such? Or do we have two parts of a school plan, one of which is compulsory and the other on a voluntary basis? On that point, I would like clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u23	If there is a mandatory part and a non-compulsory part in it, would the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance support it? Or does she think that only the non-compulsory part should be included in the school plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u24	I do not know if I have a very clear position on this right away. I am particularly looking for the sharpness and scope: where exactly are the limits? I can imagine both situations, but when we settle them, let us be clear about that. Does the inspection make a judgment as to whether the non-compulsory part has also been formulated without having an opinion on its content? Or does it simply review the parts one through four and are the parts five through eight subject of discussion but no longer parts of the review? I would like to make that clear. Then we know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u25	Mr. Chairman. D66 has taken note of this bill with great appreciation. We would like to congratulate Mr Bishop, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog on their fine work, which is now in the final decision-making process in this Chamber. The initiators are almost there! The compliment certainly also applies to Mr Bishop, who has established a beautiful, pragmatic coalition. The present legislative proposal extends the professional freedom of teachers and schools. This clarifies the basis for the action of the public authorities, in this case the inspection, and reviews the relationship between the school, the inspection, the minister and the parliament. In addition, the bill provides for better legal protection for schools against planned government sanctions. These are all important issues, but what really matters for us and why we also appreciate this initiative proposal is the fact that this is based on confidence in education. You should also include this proposal as a title: from control to trust. And that is a beginning of a turnaround that is very necessary in Dutch education. A few years ago I visited Finland to study the education system there. Finland was an example of how education can be organized in many Western countries. After the fall of the Soviet Union, with which the Finnish economy was very closely linked, the country faced major challenges to build an economy based on innovation and knowledge. My question as to what would have been the first step towards achieving this change was answered by my interlocutors: we are putting the inspection outside the door! The main argument followed was that quality is not enforced by the government but by intrinsically motivated teachers, who are well trained, supported by their management and provided with adequate material facilities and resources. In addition, there must be an environment in which the teacher is willing to answer, to the colleagues but also to the stakeholders. Horizontal and transparent accountability is particularly important in order to create a culture of innovation and improvement. For the sake of clarity, I am not in favour of abolishing the inspection. It is and remains necessary in our context to act as an extended arm of the government if the demands of good education are not met. In addition, the inspection as a critical friend can contribute to a quality culture in education that is not externally enforced but intrinsically motivated. We see this proposal as a first step in this direction. I would also like to thank the initiators for the appropriate answers to our questions in the reply. Good answers, however, require new questions and/or comments. I'll take advantage of that opportunity. In the light of the above, the aim of the legislative proposal is to distinguish between the requirements which a school has to meet under the law as a minimum if which parts allow for input of the school embedded in horizontal accountability. This is now running through each other, so that the inspection's own insights seem to have a mandatory character. The proposal separates these tasks. This should be visible in the reports of the inspection. That's clear. The inspection makes recommendations from its own point of view that the school can follow but does not have to follow. The dialogue between the inspection and the school will lead to enrichment, is the idea. A discussion will take place in the school and with the stakeholders. In order for this to succeed, crystal clear inspection reports are conditional. They shall be accessible to all. That is certainly not the case. My question to the initiators is: how do these new reports come about? Is it experimented with and gained experience? The Education Council warns that the new way of working can also lead to schools getting rid of it and only doing the minimum. In short, the intrinsically motivated quality culture does not come about. What is the role of the inspection in the eyes of the initiators? How is such a lack of quality culture made visible to all stakeholders, especially to parents? Several political groups, including the D66 Group, have addressed the adequacy requirements. They are now a comprehensive package. For example, there are 45 points for primary education, where schools sometimes get very little control. Uncertainty and interpretations are lurking here. We can see that directly, Mrs De Vries, also spoke about this in the amendment adopted in the Lower House, Strauss/Jadnansing on the input of pupils into personnel policy. In fact, and that is what the initiators argue, this is a new requirement of validity without it being clear what a school should or can do with it. This means that the quality requirements for schools, and sometimes also for inspection, become a tick-off list. Especially for this occasion I have studied the Association for Reformed School Education. That association writes on its website about the adequacy requirements: "These are requirements that a school must meet in order to qualify for funding." Next come the 45 requirements and then it says: "This list is useful to be consulted on inspection visit." Here you have it: the tick-off culture; and that with the reformed board. Such a list and such a quality culture, that's not what we're looking for here. To their surprise, the initiators note the lack of a clear and up-to-date overview of the adequacy requirements that a school can comply with. They recommend that this be developed in the short term. In his reply, the Secretary of State admits this. Wouldn't it be a good thing that the adequacy requirements are regularly reviewed and discussed in a public debate in Parliament? Various pilots are experimented with differentiated monitoring by the inspection. The field seems to be pleased with this, but is at the same time divided into differentiated judgments. The initiators, challenged for this, are clear and clear about it. Differentiated judgements have no added value for educational quality. They write that "with the introduction of differentiated judgements, the education inspection becomes a foreign duck in comparison with other supervisors and that such an initiative does not benefit the authority of the inspection." We would like to receive an explanation from the initiators of this position. In addition, we would ask the Secretary of State to shed light on this, given the distinction made by this bill between the requirements that the school must meet and the recommendations that the school may comply with or be inspired by. The government answers my questions on how the pilot differentiated monitoring will be evaluated that the evaluation of the school year 2014-2015 will be presented to Parliament before the coming summer. This is mainly about workability and experience with differentiated supervision. For the forthcoming evaluations, my group would like to see the operation of the school plan, in particular, become much more central. That will be a much more crucial document. This initiative proposal, but also in the light of differentiated monitoring, makes the school plan, its creation, participation around it and the influence of those involved essential. Can the Secretary of State promise that special attention will be paid to this? Teachers in primary and secondary education have a strong need for a teaching and teaching space within which they can give substance to good education. They will also have to have the courage to engage in horizontal dialogue in order to improve the quality of education. This proposal is a good step in this direction. We await with confidence the answers of the initiators and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u26	At the beginning of his speech, Mr Pijlman spoke about the relationship between vertical and external horizontal supervision. He then came up with the example of Finland. I very much agree with that, because education is highly appreciated there, but it seemed for a moment that Mr Pijlman made a causal link between supporting horizontal, external supervision and the quality of education. Before this causal link is taken over by us: the government in Finland makes one demand very clear, namely that no one should be in the class without a master's degree from primary education to higher education. Mr Pijlman also said in that connection: 'I did not just cancel the inspection', but he saw himself walking that way. Is it not the right balance in the legislative proposal, on the one hand, between the really strict supervision and on the other hand the dialogue, which may have led to good education in Finland too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u27	I didn't say we didn't just throw the inspection out. For the sake of clarity, I said that we cannot do without an inspection in the Dutch context, the Dutch situation. However, there is a need for much more balance, as Mr Bruijn also argues between the horizontal accountability that is now taking place slowly and for which you also need very well-trained teachers, and external supervision. This dialogue must be established much more from strength and self-confidence, also for a teaching-eductic vision. That's missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u28	Mr. Chairman. Quality, that's what it's all about, quality education. Much has already been said about this in the House of Representatives, including the definition of quality. In the House of Representatives it was soon concluded that a clear definition of educational quality is not really possible. Minimum quality requirements for education are however laid down. Those are the so-called robustness requirements. The initiator, Mr Bishop, referred to it as the backbone of educational quality, the core of quality education. What all that quality can entail can vary greatly. It's just what parents and children think is important and how schools then implement it. Knowing that the discussion on quality of education and its definition is an endless one, we are talking here about laws. I wonder if it is wise to throw away the quality aspects. How do the initiators react to the argument that this makes the concept of educational quality even less concrete and even less effective? After all, there is no doubt that we are all striving for good education. Is the education inspection not taking handles to intervene when this is necessary? I'd like a response. The first general impression of my group is that education monitoring is being clarified, but it is also being watered down. This is demonstrated, for example, by the proposed amendments to the Education Monitoring Act. For example, Article 4 of the Act deals with the proposed amendments, not only in terms of educational supervision and supervision, but also in terms of carrying out its tasks through the inspection. Why this weakening? What is wrong with supervision, because at least that is implied? What's wrong with the term "supervisory" at all? Article 6a of the Education Supervision Act is also striking, especially its amendment. The first paragraph talks, at least at present, about the inspection of education as a point of contact for persons who consider that the quality of education is inadequate. The initiators intend to amend this paragraph so that the inspection will only become a point of contact for persons who consider that the school fails to comply with legal requirements. Does this include persons who may also be able to perform some kind of whistleblower function? In any case, why are these people deprived of the opportunity to report a quality assessment to the educational inspection? As has been said, quality is not a neutral concept and can be addressed individually at each school. Isn't it important to have an eye for this? Then why throw the concept of quality overboard, knowing that the individual interpretation of it has made a school what it is? According to Article 11 (1) of the Education Supervision Act, the inspection is currently assessing the quality of education and compliance with legal requirements. Following legislative amendment, the inspection will only assess compliance with legal requirements and will only disclose its findings with regard to educational quality. Is this true? Is it true that these findings can remain without consequences? Only complying with legal requirements does not make a school a good school with good quality education. Do the initiators agree with this? Can they then clarify the positive effects of this bill and what positive effects it will have on the quality of education? Then there's a practical example. In 2010, the Islamic College of Amsterdam had to close its doors. The subsidy tap was turned off. Fine, find the PVV. That should be done at all Islamic schools, but that aside. The school hadn't had enough students for three years. In other words, the results were not as good as the quality of education. In addition, the students were beaten with the ruler. What impact does the removal of quality requirements have on such a situation? If their legislative proposal had already entered into force in 2010, would that have affected the assessment of the Islamic College Amsterdam? Would it have come to a close? After all, this legislative proposal would exclude qualitative aspects such as the effectiveness of didactic action. Is that right? Do the initiators then consider that the beating of pupils as "didactic actions" should no longer play a role? It can't be, can it? It will not be surprising that these are important questions for the PVV. In case the initiators say that hypothetical questions are not answered, I will update the case of the Islamic College Amsterdam. What is the case? The Islamic Education Foundation wants a new Islamic school in Amsterdam. The city's municipal administration has been resisting this for three years. That is understandable, of course, but also of course. However, in October last year, the Council of State decided that Amsterdam should host the Islamic school. The municipality has now put its hopes in the Ministry and has asked the Secretary of State for Education to block the arrival of the school. And how does Amsterdam intend to block the arrival of that school? Based on quality aspects. The municipality of Amsterdam wants the education inspection to assess the quality even before the school opens. How does the Secretary of State view this case in the context of the legislative proposal before us? How does he look at this case, knowing that quality aspects will be removed? What changes or influences based on the bill does he see? The fact is that Islamic education is countering integration. If that is contrary to the requirements of quality or quality, my specific question is this. As my colleague in the House of Representatives has pointed out, qualitative aspects must be at the heart of education. Only the ticking of a list of qualifications is not enough and does not necessarily make a school a good school. Finally, I would like to ask the initiators to clarify the usefulness and necessity of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-7.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Kops. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? I see that this is not the case.
