ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-4.u1	I ask the Members to stand up. On 9 February last, at the age of 92, Jan Zoon, former senator for the Labour Party, died. He was a member of the First Chamber for almost 22 years, from 16 September 1969 until 11 June 1991. Jan Herbert Zoon was born in Rotterdam on 16 July 1923. His father was the head of an elementary school. From 1942 to 1946, Mr. Son was an official in the secretariat of the municipality of Rotterdam. Afterwards he became editor of the weekly Economic Statistical Posts. From 1946 to 1954 he studied economics at the Dutch Economic Hogeschool in Rotterdam in the evening hours. In 1959, Mr. Zoon arrived in Friesland at the drafting of an article on the economic situation in the North of the Netherlands and became charmed by the "Fries eigen." A few months later, he moved to the Economic Technology Institute for Friesland, an independent provincial advisory body. In 1964 he became Deputy Director and in 1980 Director. Mr. Son was so impressed by the province that he made it the subject of his PhD research. In 1969, Mr. Son obtained his PhD on a dissertation entitled Friesland between hope and fear, in which he concluded that increasing Frisian economic prosperity would pose a threat to Frisian culture. That same year, Mr. Son was sworn in as a member of the First Chamber of the States General. His membership was a surprise for many, not least for himself. He was encouraged by Anne Vondeling to go into politics. Just fourteen days after his promotion, Mr. Son made his maiden speech in this house during the General Financial Reviews. He indicated that he had soon purchased a few manuals of public finances in preparation for the debate. Years later, he admitted in an interview that he had found it "very exciting" to face Minister Witteveen of Finance, his former teacher. Mr. Son would eventually become the undisputed financial expert of his group. He was not afraid to take positions contrary to the parties. For example, he voted against legalising casinos and argued that one should not hold on to reducing the funding gap at all costs. Mr. Son was a strong supporter of taxation according to capacity and prudent government practices. In 1989 he argued in a debate that he became "physically unwell" of the idea that a number of ministers had been invited by a company to a concert by Frank Sinatra, Liza Minelli and Sammy Davis Jr. and that the costs for this concert were also tax deductible. In an interview from 1990, Mr. Son talked about the intertwining of the place of the First Chamber in the legislative process and its role in politics. Son indicated that the First Chamber has the important task of checking a bill for clarity, feasibility and justice. However, the Chamber is not a technocratic legislative machine, but a political body, he felt. As the oldest member in Chamber years, Mr. Son acted several times as President-in-Office of the Chamber. He was also Deputy Chairman of the Permanent Committee for Finance for four years. Mr. Son was known as a humble man. After more than 22 years of membership, when he gave a farewell interview, not entirely coincidentally, the Leeuwarder Courant, he said he was just a very normal person, who had nothing special to say. Mr. Son was also characterized by his strong principles. In debates in the Chamber, he constantly denounced materialism and consumerism in society and advocated the widest possible spread of knowledge, power and prosperity. In addition to his work for the First Chamber and the Economic Technology Institute for Friesland, Mr.Son held various social positions. For example, he was a member of the Executive Board of the Fryske Akademy, member of the Friesland Scientific Centre, member of the Central Statistical Commission, Commissioner at Friese Press Management and chairman of the resistance foundation Je Maintiendrai Friesland. Mr. Son was a knight in the Order of the Dutch Lion and commander in the Order of Orange-Nassau. May our respect for his person and his merits for our parliamentary democracy be to support his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
