ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, who has been in the Chamber almost all week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Air quality policy must be based on health. We have discussed this for a long time in general. I was very pleased with the Secretary of State's commitment to deliver a letter with the results of the consultation with the Health Council on health targets before the summer. In the meantime, however, figures show that the chances of exceeding European standards along the routes where the cabinet has recently increased speed are higher than you might expect from the scientific margin we were talking about in the AA. That's why D66 wants clear information, because it's important to give everyone clarity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas clean air is important for people's health, in particular for people with respiratory diseases, and health should be at the heart of air quality policy;]] [[calls on the government to have RIVM examine the possibility that the speed increases that have been carried out this year and which are still to be carried out on motorways will lead to an overrun of European air quality standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-231]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	I realize that this is typically such a subject that lies a bit between two rulers. If I put the motion to Minister Schultz, she will say that the Secretary of State is about air quality, while the Secretary of State may say that the Minister is about speed. At least it falls within one ministry and the government always speaks with one mouth. This request can therefore be read as a request to the cabinet. I hope the Secretary of State can see that not one ruler can actually say that this falls entirely within his or her portfolio. We have discussed this at length in the AO, which is why I submit this request to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to draw attention today to the problem of arsenic. This is a toxic substance that is in different places in the soil, also in the Netherlands. This also appears to be the case on the Veluwe. RIVM issued an opinion in autumn to strengthen the soil standards for arsenic on the basis of new risk limits. In Apeldoorn there has been a summit on arsenic. The Stentor has even written about this that arsenic poses a risk to children playing in certain places. It is precisely our children that we must offer the best protection. We must ensure that they do not come into contact with dangerous substances, for example at playgrounds. I was given a commitment at the time to identify the dangers of arsenic and to send it to the Chamber by letter, together with the results of the summit meeting on arsenic in which RIVM participated. I am therefore very curious to know what the situation is. I would like to see RIVM's advice on strengthening standards added. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Last time I dealt with this issue at the end of my speech, but now I have chosen to start with it. We are also very pleased that the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme is being extended to the implementation of the Environment Act. The Secretary of State has indicated that the new Air Quality Action Plan will provide additional funding for Amsterdam and Rotterdam. In the meantime, we have called for attention to be paid to the petition submitted by the environmental organisations. We are also looking forward to exploring measurable targets of the Air Quality Action Plan before the summer, as promised in the AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas criteria based on scientific evidence for hormone disrupting substances should be established by the European Commission in the short term;]] [[calls on the Government to work at European level to adopt the WHO's proposed definition of hormone-distorting substances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-232]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	My next motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas for reasons of road safety, climate and health of residents, a lower speed limit on motorways is better;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from further increases in the maximum speed, at least until the objectives of the Energy Agreement have been achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-233]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	My third motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European emission requirements for cars do not cover maximum speeds above 120 km/h and there is no knowledge of the additional emissions of cars over 120 km/h;]] [[calls on the Government, either to provide for its own emission standards for cars that run faster than 120 km/h, or to clarify how TNO and RIVM calculate the emissions of 130 highways using only one measuring point, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-234]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	My final motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on the nineteen motorways where 130 km/h is currently permitted, air quality is measured only at one point and this does not allow empirically validated statements to be made on the effects of increasing the maximum air quality;]] [[calls on the Government, a system of air quality measurement points operated by TNO and the RIVM, to maintain and extend it to more measuring points along motorways where the maximum speed is or has been increased to 130 km/h,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-235]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. Everyone, including the VVD, cares about clean air. I found in my archive a recording from 1982, so 34 years ago, of a radio program, In the Rooie Haan. VVD Minister Winsemius talked about speeding up the highway through the introduction of the soot filter. I liked that. Clean air is important. It's something we breathe in every day. You don't have a choice. Fortunately, however, we are achieving the European standard of air quality almost throughout the Netherlands: 99.99%. Where that is not the case, we are working to achieve that standard. If you look at it that way, the whole of the Netherlands is actually an environmental area. So we don't need them anymore, at least in the cities. The VVD points out that current policies are even within reach of the WHO's global standards. Air doesn't stick to borders. That is why a European approach is always sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	This is entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	They're facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren both walked to the interrupting microphone. Mrs. Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	A silly question would be whether Mr Dijkstra took a look at the air quality app this morning. If so, he has been able to see that the entire Randstad lights up beautifully in terms of air quality: moderate, bad to even smog. Netherlands as a large environmental zone? In that case, air standards still need to be tightened up. That is what my question is about. According to Mr Dijkstra, the WHO standards are within reach. Should that also be the aim with regard to the VVD? Should the WHO standards be the touchstone on which we focus our policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	You should consult that app on a daily basis; that is very useful. You need to look at the colors. Yellow is not very bad, it only becomes critical with red or purple, because then the pollution is above 40. I don't think we're gonna make it to that standard. As far as your second question is concerned, the VVD naturally wants to go to WTO standards, but in the long term and at a realistic pace. They are within reach with current policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mrs Van Veldhoven, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	I am very pleased that the VVD is now in favour of WTO standards. So we can probably do something together with motions to record that, so that it is not just fine words in this Chamber. However, if Mr Dijkstra takes a look at the air quality app today, he will see that there are whole bands where air quality is insufficient, bad or very bad. With "very bad" there is a smog alarm: take it easy and avoid physical effort. That does not seem to me to be the picture we should want of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	When I walked here this morning, the wind started to rise. Fortunately you have that in the Netherlands and that situation will be gone within an hour. Smog alert isn't over 70 micrograms. I don't think we're gonna make it today. Well, if it is, it's kind of special. That's actually the second time since old and new, when we turned off fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u18	Does my colleague in the VVD agree with me that there is no absolutely safe level of these emissions for health? I see nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u19	That's right. That's the point I want to make. We're actually getting the standards for 99.99%. The WHO standards are within reach with current policies. So we don't have to make any motions for that. I do not think that the application of higher standards is realistic at the moment. If you do want to do so, as some parties want, you should first be able to specify what the new standard is. If you can't do that, it's some kind of open-ended scheme. Then you don't know what effect it has. You really need to know that. You need to know what the norm is and what the frame is. Yesterday, the Secretary of State gave me that right. I agree with you that every standard, every emission, poses a risk. However, I do not want to go to zero. I don't think you want to go to zero either, because then you can't do anything. Then you can't eat, you can't shop, you can't travel and you can't sail anymore. Then you have no people; then you have a very healthy air but no people. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. You don't want that. The global standards are at your fingertips, but make sure you balance the social costs and benefits every time and between the social factors, so that we can also live a bit normal and fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u20	What does the VVD say to the people who live near highways and die six to twelve months earlier? Is that just collateral damage for prosperity in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u21	That's not funny, of course. The beauty of it is that the air is getting cleaner and cleaner. That's a fact. People die from particulate matter before, but it's very difficult to identify someone who died specifically from particulate matter. You won't. Those are statistics. Yes, there is of course health damage; yes, there is a risk with every emission and yes, people die earlier, but you know that very difficult, because it is of course very difficult to determine whether you are going to be 94 or 93 or 2 months. Any emissions will pose a health risk, but it must always be balanced. A little normal life, a bit of a normal economy and of course a clean air; that often goes very well together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u22	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u23	I have said it in part: according to the VVD, there must always be a balance between health and clean air on the one hand and prosperity on the other and a pleasant and comfortable life on the other. Both do go well together. Again, it is not possible to reduce emissions to the level at which no health damage occurs at all. After all, any emissions above zero represent a risk. We have to be honest about that. All those who propagate that you can fully prevent health damage actually make the problem bigger and present themselves as some sort of savior, as if they were the only ones for a clean air. I have difficulty with that, but they also mainly create a false solution. I don't like that, because then we have to stop living, with our traffic, with our transport, inhabiting our homes, working and actually everything. I don't think anyone wants that. So please do not comment that anyone or any party is against clean air. That's bullshit. The VVD chooses to do this in a smart way, with realistic policies and realistic standards and at a realistic pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. I'll just have to look at the motion on hormone disruptors later, but I'll get started. Mrs van Veldhoven has tabled a motion requesting a second opinion on the increase in speed. Maybe it's good to say two things in that area. What she is saying is true: it is my Minister's decision on traffic, to put it nicely, which is under discussion here. In itself, I would have found it more appropriate formally to have that debate with her. From the point of view of air quality, the cabinet has always said: where it is possible, we are increasing speed. The good thing about that is that where it can't be done, it's reversed. Of course, this has happened in the past. Mrs Van Veldhoven wants another model calculation, but in practice we already measure real emissions every year. On that basis, we are pursuing the policy. Quite apart from the fact that I think it would be better procedurally to table this motion in another debate, and I am usually inclined to discourage a motion for procedural reasons, I would also like to do so in this case for substantive reasons: the RIVM model is already the basis for the calculations and we determine in advance how we can implement the speed increases within the standard. At the moment when it is not possible, we will check with the NSL how air quality develops. Where the standards are exceeded, the increase will be reversed; then we will take action. I think this is good, too. You have to do that, because otherwise, of course, the credibility of your policy will be gone at some point. That is my opinion on the motion on item No. 231.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u25	I understand that the Secretary of State says that we should actually have the debate on this with the Minister, but the Minister will say the same about the Secretary of State. I can imagine that, in a subsequent debate, we are inviting both directors, because they are both right. Otherwise, the Chamber can't debate with anyone. Nor can it be that such a subject falls apart because two rulers are jointly responsible for it. Then I come back to the content of the motion: there has simply been unrest over the figures. The risk of an overrun could be as many as 81% on a number of routes. Then it is important not to allow that uncertainty to continue and to ask the RIVM to carry out those route calculations again? I can also imagine that the Secretary of State would like to discuss this with her colleague. I am quite prepared to hold the motion if it wishes to discuss it and hear the Minister's opinion, so that it can then be included in a joint final opinion on the motion. I really think that's important, because otherwise we won't be able to discuss anything. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State says that we will reverse it if we cannot, but we need the right figures to be able to hold the debate. And that is precisely what has given rise to uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u26	So that's what I want to fight. First of all, there is no such uncertainty, in the sense that we do our research on the basis of the models proposed by the RIVM. Whole sets of written questions from various political groups have been tabled on this subject. For that reason alone, there is also an answer to that question. The answer will be sent to the Chamber by the Minister, possibly jointly with me. Therefore, I do not think it is unwise to wait for the answer to the written questions first. It is not that I do not want to have the debate, I have already given a substantive argument for it, but I think we should do it in conjunction. The traffic decision is under discussion. The Chamber knows my position on air quality standards. My reasoning is, if we can't, we won't. We're measuring that, too. I think that's important. I would therefore suggest that we wait for the answers to the questions first. Perhaps Mrs Van Veldhoven should then hold her motion, otherwise I will give my opinion on this now: then I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u27	Finally, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u28	This is indeed a subject that lives with several parties. That is how I know that the Labour Party has also asked questions about this. I believe that such a pass-through, together with the answer to the questions, would provide a good basis for a debate with the two directors on what is going on here and whether it is necessary to amend some kind of decision. So I see it very much intertwined and mutually reinforcing. It would be a shame if, once we have the answers to the questions, we had to wait for a pass-through again. I'll think about it, but I really think of it as a joint package. Those two things could provide a nice basis for the follow-up debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u29	I've heard it, but I'm sticking to my point of view. The motion in part No. I'm gonna skip 232 from Mrs Van Tongeren. I'll explain why. The subject of hormone-distorting substances will be dealt with tomorrow in the Environment Council. We will, of course, call for these criteria to be adopted very quickly. That's what I said yesterday in another VAO. I cannot fully see whether that is exactly the definition proposed by Mrs Van Tongeren. I don't know if we can say exactly now. So I'm gonna have to take a different look at that, but I'm gonna get back to that. So I shall now proceed with the Van Tongeren motion on part No. 233. It calls on the government to refrain from increasing the maximum speed. Mrs Van Tongeren knows the coalition agreement, she knows what the aim is and she also knows the conditions. I've just outlined it clearly. That's why I have to discourage the motion. In the motion in part No. 234 asks Mrs Van Tongeren whether we are calculating emission standards for cars that run faster than 120 km/h, how that happens and whether RIVM and TNO do so on the basis of only one measurement point. TNO also investigates cars that run faster than 120 km/h. We have also exchanged this with each other in general consultation. The RIVM calculation model is leading, and the RIVM believes that the current model with the current number of measurement points is sufficient. I don't see why I should overrule that politics. It's really RIVM, I think. So for that reason, too, I would like to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u30	Cars are tested in a variety of different countries and there are European standards, but that goes up to 120 km/h in all those other countries. Between 120 km/h and 130 km/h, most cars turn off their catalyst and become a whole lot dirtier. There's no record of that in any country. In the Netherlands, cars are not only allowed in the Netherlands, but also those allowed in other countries. And for those cars, on paper, no information is available on what they do between 120 km/h and 130 km/h. Then you could say, "Okay," but we'll compensate for that because we're measuring all those trajectories. But we don't. We're only measuring at one point. So there really is a gap in the way we look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u31	That is a political judgment of Mrs Van Tongeren. I understand that TNO does investigate cars that drive faster than 120 km/h. RIVM also says that it can calculate the 130 km/h with its current methodology. And whether RIVM does that with one measuring point or with more is not up to us. That's RIVM. They're scientists who do it independently. Part of the Chamber also wants to use them as a second opinion, so I'm assuming the Chamber trusts them. Then we should not question their methodology either. At least I'm not gonna do that. I'll continue to dissuade the motion. I'm not gonna make another judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u32	A brief question, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u33	Could we then receive from the Secretary of State the research data on the emissions of cars on the Dutch roads between 120 km/h and 130 km/h? If that is tested by TNO or RIVM, I have not been able to find that in the reports. I haven't been able to find that there's been a look at the emissions anywhere, but I may have missed something. If that's been tested, I'd like to see the reports on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u34	I don't know how many reports it is, but I'll let the Chamber know how that happens and how we can measure it. That seems fair to me, so that's what the Chamber gets. I'll send her a note about that, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u35	Then there is the Van Tongeren motion on part No. 235.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u36	The Van Tongeren motion in part No. 235 is actually in the same category. It is about changing the system of air quality measurement points. I have already said that I do not enter into the work of the RIVM. I'm just not gonna do that. I also find it unfortunate to do so, because it suggests that we know better than the scientists themselves. So I'm deceiving the motion. I now come to the Van Tongeren motion on part No. 232. I would like to propose to Mrs Van Tongeren that the motion be retained. I'll explain why. We are now seriously considering within the Union the extent to which we can fit in with the WTO definitions. However, it is still too early to determine whether we can take it over with each other. As we have a somewhat more precarious position in the Council because of our role as President, it is not convenient for me to have to deal with this because of a motion. The possibilities I can take, I'll take, but maybe it's better to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u37	I've just had a word with the other spokesmen. We are also waiting for a letter in response to a previous motion. In view of the comments made by the Secretary of State, I shall proceed to my motion in respect of item No. Two-two-two-two-two. I sincerely hope that we can get to the Environment Council in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u38	At the request of Mrs Van Tongeren, I propose her motion (30175, No. 232), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 232/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u39	I am very keen to make a real success of this issue in the Environment Council. That is absolutely necessary, because the Commission has left this behind for too long, as we have to establish with each other. Mrs Cegerek made a comment at the end of her speech and asked about the promised letter on arsenic. He'll be in the room next week. Last but not least, I come to Mr Dijkstra's comments. Some of them are a repetition of the debate we had yesterday. He says he doesn't want to improve air quality infinitely, because the social price you have to pay for it is potentially quite high. There is indeed a social, social and economic price associated with improving air quality, but it also has revenues, if only health gains, cleaner air and a better environment. It also offers more economic development opportunities. I've been able to see that very well in the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen myself. So I insist that it is important, because we are taking another step forward in terms of health effects, even if we meet European standards. I am pleased to taste careful support from Mr Dijkstra for this. Let's keep doing this wisely. It's a trade-off every time. Mr Dijkstra is just one of them. I have seen that Mr Dijkstra has asked extensive written questions about the environmental zones to the Minister and to me. We will answer them in the near future. I say in advance that I do not think that the statement that the Netherlands is a large environmental area will stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u40	What remains is that the air in the Netherlands is getting cleaner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u42	And that, apart from 99.9% of all locations, except those 10 and 12 kilometres, we meet European standards. I am concerned about the balance between air quality and all these other aspects, and about a realistic pace. If the Secretary of State can confirm that, I am satisfied with these abstract terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u43	In abstracto you can always agree more quickly. So I'd like to confirm that, but the proof of the pudding is in the eating. In order to meet these European standards, we had to take a few steps in Rotterdam and Amsterdam, on which Mr Dijkstra was critical. I am pleased to hear that we can take these steps with broad support. I actually hope he agrees that this might be wise. So I see that balance; I am very much of it. Let us decide that together, each time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u44	I see that Mr Dijkstra and Mrs Van Veldhoven would like to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u45	It was a little entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u46	Apart from that, this has been discussed extensively in general consultation. I believe that the views are well known. This is just a VAO with two minutes' speaking time, so let's leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u47	I was indeed at the end of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u48	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
