ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u1	I give the floor to the Minister for Housing and National Service for the first term of office of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. I heard a lot of melancholy in the contributions of the Chamber the day before yesterday. I heard in this melancholy about the fact that this is once again the last budget of this cabinet, at least in missionary status. The undertone was like, "and we're gonna miss each other." In any case, I would like to express my gratitude to all the groups for the fact that we have been able to take very many genuinely parliamentary measures. I'm thinking about the Housing Act and the Housing Act. Sometimes measures have not been taken Chamberwide, but with a smaller group. Once again, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the parties in the housing agreement, D66, the Christian Union and the SGP, who have shown great political courage by concluding an agreement with the cabinet at the time when the housing market really needed it. The measures contained in that agreement were not always easy, but ultimately worked well for the housing market. I have, of course, also read back the report of the 2012 budget debate in a melancholic mood. At the time, there were a lot of texts, which she recognizes, can raise his hands in which words like "dramatic measures," "measures towards the grave" and "all signals are on red." That was 2012. Mr De Vries has almost forgotten it, but really, these words have all been spoken here. So where do we stand now? Of course, the housing market is not finished yet, it is not perfect yet, but we are much better at it. I am the first to admit that low interest rates play a huge role in this, but everyone also knows that you have to use a period of low interest rates to take those difficult measures. We have been able to do this in recent years, once again with the support of many parties. As far as I am concerned, that does not mean that we are just going to look back. I just wanted to keep working for my money until the election and probably a while later. I am sure the same applies to the Chamber. There are still legislative proposals in the Chamber on quality assurance, the adaptation of the landlord's tax, the association of owners and the houseboats. So I very much hope that we will be able to work together in the coming months. What is really different about the housing market from some years ago is that you can actually say that money is no longer the problem. Mr De Vries has already said this in so many words. You can see that in the housing corporations. Really all reports indicate that their financial position is strong and that there is also a high investment capacity. This is reflected in investors' interest in the private rental sector. Research reports indicate that 6 billion is available. You'll also see it in the mortgage market. Four years ago, in the same debate, there was a great deal of concern about the fact that only four banks wanted to sell mortgages at all; they didn't really want to sell mortgages; they didn't want to have access to them, and there was no competition. In the meantime, there are many new entrants and there is again a fight for the customers. The market share of the banks has decreased significantly, which has also made that market healthier. Mortgages are offered by insurers and pension funds from home and abroad. So there has really been a huge improvement. Now Mr Van Vliet asked me as a bouncer: what is your view on the housing market? That's what he's asking after the end of those four years. He choked on that, too. That's a question I've been asked before. I have always pointed out that since the year 2000 there has been a great deal of thinking on the housing market. Johan Remkes has written a wonderful vision. The same applies to Sybilla Dekker and Minister Van der Laan and Minister Donner. They have all written wonderful visions on the housing market. I would give some parts a different coloring, but I also agree with them on a lot of parts. They're all actually doing the same analysis: at that time too high debts in the retail market, too many crooked residents in the social rental market, too small a middle-rent segment. I did not feel that I had to add anything to those analyses, but that this urgency accumulated year by year and that the time had come for not words but deeds. Fortunately, that feeling was widely shared in the Chamber. Essentially, the vision of a minister, regardless of political colour, must be natural: the Constitution instructs me to ensure adequate housing. That is why I have to make sure that the system is so that there is provision for every income group and every specific living wish. This system means that there are housing corporations for a small wallet and sufficient opportunities for investors in the free market. Can house buyers properly finance their homes? Is there enough flow in that market? The main thing is that these different parts can work well and that each player can play his role well. Against this background I look at the different parts of the housing market. The President asked about the order in which the questions were answered. I will deal with the following aspects: the market for purchases, the rental market, the other aspects of housing market policy and finally the questions that have been asked about the state service. I'll start with the buying sector. In the buying sector we have taken a large number of measures, which initially also gave the necessary commotion. We see that very strong recovery has taken place. Next year we will take one major measure, namely that the exemption from the donation tax that we have already had will come back, but now on a permanent basis, for recipients between 18 and 40 years of age who spend the donation on a home. Mr Bashir asked whether the mortgage rules should be changed. He went into loan to value, the ratio of debt to the value of the house. If I understand correctly, the SP's proposal is to maximise the interest deduction on a mortgage of €350,000 and ultimately reduce it to zero and put the deduction below at a level of 42%. First of all, I'd like to outline what such an intervention in the mortgage interest relief would mean. For an amount of €350,000 you can buy an apartment in the big cities of the Netherlands. In Amsterdam or Utrecht you can't really speak of villas in which exorbitantly rich people live at an amount of €350,000 or something up there. If you convert it into borrowing capacity, you're talking about people with a combined income of about €80,000. You can take out a mortgage like that. I'm talking about two teachers. I find it incredibly profound to meet a household, type two teachers, living in an apartment in a big city, so sharply in the wallet. I'm comparing it to the debt-free mortgage that was allowed until a few years ago. This has rightly ended, but still exists on a large scale. If you really reduce that deduction above €350,000 to zero, the housing costs can increase by up to 40%, and you're not talking about extremely wealthy people. I would strongly advise against that part of Mr Bashir's plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u3	Before misunderstandings arise, we do not want to completely reduce the mortgage interest deduction for houses above €350,000 to zero, but we want to give everyone in the Netherlands, rich and poor, the guarantee that they can deduct interest over the first €350,000 at a maximum of 42%, while the cabinet ultimately wants to move towards 38%, to get the facts straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u4	I do not hear any denial of the fact that the deduction goes up to zero. Maybe that's still in the pass-through, but as it's presented to me, the deduction goes up to zero. Mr Bashir is not responding to that, I see. The sums I just showed apply to an apartment in the centre of Amsterdam or Utrecht, which can currently be purchased by people with a combined income of about €80,000. For that, it has these effects. I find it disproportionate. I understand that it's different underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u5	If that couple of two teachers in Amsterdam buy a house of €400,000, then it can continue to deduct mortgage interest over the first €350,000 at a maximum of 42% in our proposal, while the cabinet wants to reduce it to 38%. Although it is about a smaller amount, it is about more deduction. So the math is more nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u6	In any case, we are in agreement on the phasing-out to zero. It will therefore also cover existing cases. People can get into serious trouble. Mr Bashir made another proposal. Mr Van Vliet and Mr Bisschop also asked. They proposed not to reduce the loan to value, the value of the mortgage loan to the value of the house, to 100%, but to freeze it to 102%. The Netherlands has a tradition of very high mortgages compared to the value of the house. This cabinet has very consciously continued a line that has already been deployed by the previous cabinet. This is very risky for people who live like this. At the moment when you're struggling in the economy and you lose your job, or you're facing divorce, you suddenly get only 100% back. In a recession, it will often be less. People will suffer from high residual debts. You can see that this has a direct effect on those people, but also a much broader psychological effect. The term "underwater mortgage" was unknown until 2008. Almost everyone closed an underwater mortgage, because that's what everyone thought was normal at the time. After that, this has become a very normal subject. It led to a major cramping. People were afraid to move out because they found that they would have a residual debt if they sold their house. That is why the policy has been used which, in the end, cannot be borrowed more than 100%. If you freeze that halfway through now, a number of things would happen. The residual debt risk will occur again, because in Amsterdam and Utrecht the houses have risen significantly in price, but not at all in much of the Netherlands. That's where the residual debt risks are still real. Secondly, you have a huge confidence in the Dutch housing market, so a willingness of all those insurers and pension funds from home and abroad to provide mortgages. It is reassuring for them that we have taken this whole package of measures, with just going back to 100%, just going back to 30 years. That's why we have that much bigger offer. The same applies to the investors in the rental market. So if we suddenly change our policy, which is actually working very well, we are creating unrest again. Fortunately, the financial markets are resting now, but I cannot predict what will happen if the Brexit gets a little raging, or if things go a little bit wrong in Italy. In America there are exciting elections. Before you know it, you can be in a financial crisis again, in which it gets exciting again whether Dutch banks can finance themselves. It is very unwise when it is discovered that we are again very out of line with what is otherwise common in mortgages. On this proposal by Mr Bashir, too, I say: let's just keep up the slow pace, with 1% off until we reach 100% in 2018. That's what I'm saying to other questioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u7	Anyone who takes out a new mortgage now has to pay off by means of an annuity. That means every month the risk of your house being flooded. After all, you keep paying off. That takes a while, because in the beginning you pay interest. I know all that. I say, however, that if I listen to my ear in my neighborhood, I hear people say: I want to buy a house, but I have to hurry; the loan to value is going down and I will be able to finance less and less. That's the sound that reaches me on the street and in good Dutch music in its own Umkreis. Those people actually say: that 102 is not a risk; that is already close to 100; I am also obliged to redeem, but now I am going to hurry, because I am getting a bad feeling; the government is going to limit my loan possibilities. Where's the real risk here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u8	As I outline, the risk arises when people have to sell their homes by losing their jobs or by the end of a relationship. Then suddenly it turns out that the value the house had, according to them, is no longer the amount paid. Mr Van Vliet gave a nice insight into 21 moves, including one in De Ruyterstraat in Middelburg. A beautiful city. In Zeeland, the housing market is quite different than in Amsterdam and Utrecht. We've just mastered the problem again. We can see that the number of underwater mortgages is actually decreasing again. The number of moves is increasing enormously. This also means more work for the painter and for the garden center. Why should we stop this good movement now, when we still have two steps to go up to 100%? That's a lot of hassle and no benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u9	This is about the starters, isn't it? Just that threshold, which is down 2%, can prevent them from buying that house. If your starters are able to make optimal use of this possibility, then you also promote the flow on the rental market. So that's all awesome. Here we are talking about the risk of an underwater mortgage in divorce, but that risk is theoretical in my opinion if you are a few years later because of the repayments made at 98%. After all, you're required to pay off. That initial threshold hits the starters. Don't we just have to help these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u10	Then I will outline to Mr Van Vliet what happens to a starter's home in Amsterdam if you set the loan capacity to 102%: the price will of course rise by 2%. House prices in cities like this are determined by all the 30 people who arrived on that morning and all asked what their maximum borrowing capacity is. The highest bidder wins. The starter homes are the more compact homes on the market. So that's where all starters come in, all of whom are going to offer 102%. Doesn't make anyone happier. You get exactly the same phenomenon that occurred before the crisis broke out. People offer against each other up to exactly the borrowing capacity. If a financial crisis breaks out again, people will have real damage. That's the problem we had just mastered. Don't bring it back in!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u11	I hear you calling, Mr Van Vliet. Do you want to make another interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u12	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u13	Mr Ronnes asked about the report commissioned by Bouwend Nederland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u14	Before proceeding, Mr Madlener would like to ask a question on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u15	Here again Amsterdam is elevated as a model for the whole of the Netherlands. I would ask the Minister to make a clear distinction in the course of this debate. Most people still don't live in Amsterdam. 'Happy' I wanted to say, but of course I cannot say that from Mr Bosma. Let us not pretend that there is a huge boom in the housing market throughout the Netherlands. In most places in the Netherlands, most people still have an underwater mortgage. The 2008 price level is far from being reached. I'd like to ask the Minister to take that all night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u16	What Mr Madlener is saying now, I said a minute ago about literally myself to explain why you should not go to the 102%. I even mentioned the De Ruyterstraat in Middelburg. Who doesn't know him? It is true that the housing market is much more vulnerable. Mr Ronnes asked about the report Towards better functioning loan standards, which was written on behalf of Bouwend Nederland. It makes a number of comments on the income standards applied to mortgages based on Nibud calculations. I'm gonna go back in history. For a time, there were income standards for mortgages with an expansive possibility for banks. It has been used so many times that it has been widely said in the Chamber: these are no longer exceptions; that becomes the rule and that drives prices further. The cabinet was then asked to take action. That was before my time. That is why legislation has been put in place to lay down loan standards. Those standards are based on an opinion from the Nibud. The cabinet is politically responsible for these standards, but we are being advised independently on this point. I think that's a great thing. My predecessor, Minister Spies, started that and I have continued that tradition. The loan standards of the Nibud are public, take into account a large number of factors and are regularly adjusted. For example, the latest adjustment has increased the loan capacity for two-earers, as the Nibud has found that they have more possibilities. We also offered extra space for zero-on-the-meter houses earlier. That's good for the wallet, but it's also good for the environment. Furthermore, banks may be allowed to deviate from the standards by means of the possibility of an explanation, provided that they have a good basis for doing so. One of the first measures I have taken, I believe even in 2012, is to take into account expectations of rising income, especially among young people, and a good future perspective. This does not mean that I am not politically responsible or that I am not paying attention to what the Nibud is doing, but I do attach great importance to letting those loan standards be set at a distance from politics. A fixed pattern and also an important cause of the financial crisis in America. It is even stated in this report, I saw that politics in America put great pressure before 2008 to lend money more easily to people with uncertain incomes. So I think it is very sensible that at least the proposals on these standards should not come from politics, but from an independent body. I may be politically responsible, but my tendency to change that is very small. I must therefore have a very urgent reason. Also on the basis of this report, I do not come to the conclusion that there is something very wrong. However, on the basis of the report I come to the conclusion that every time I read critically the reports of the Nibud, with which we also have regular consultations that the Nibud offers an extension where that can be done. At the moment, I see no reason to overrule the Nibud's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u17	I understand what the Minister is saying. I agree with him that we should not sit on the Nibud's chair. In practice, however, it appears that the "comply or explain" procedures in mortgage lending are interpreted fairly rigidly. That's what we get back from the field. The Minister does not have to decide where the dividing line is to lie, but we would like him to show his willingness and to work hard with AFM and the Nibud, as a specialist in this field, but perhaps also with other players in the field of mortgage lending, to see whether the grey areas can be better filled out. If at the end of the day the conclusion is that this cannot be done, then it cannot be done. However, given the examples we receive in our mailboxes, we believe that more customisation should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u18	To the extent that Mr Ronnes asks me to consult regularly with AFM and Nibud, also in order to check whether people are not wrongly wronged or expansive possibilities remain unnecessarily unused, I agree with him. Those aren't just words. On the one hand, we see that the Nibud has extended the standards on good grounds in recent years. On the other hand, we are now seeing a large number of initiatives in the market. Today, I read the announcement to make it easier for people working on a temporary basis to provide mortgages. I know that the Waarborgfonds Eigen Woningen is working to find some more room at the National Mortgage Guarantee to give people with temporary contracts or self-employed people a mortgage in a responsible way. The critical remarks and the pressure from the Chamber therefore regularly cut wood. However, I would like to be clear that although I have the power to adapt the Nibud's standards, I would like to be extremely reluctant. I believe that a balance on loan standards should not be politically controlled, but should really be made on the basis of the interests of the house buyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u19	I think I'll get back to that in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u20	Mr Madlener pointed out that the WPA value of houses is increasingly automated for everyone. He asked me whether it could not be arranged for banks to automatically adjust their mortgage interest rate storage if the World Bank value falls below a certain limit. That is initially a sympathetic thought, but you do encounter a number of complexities when working on it. If you want to introduce that the interest rate premium is moving along with the WOZ value, you can't really insist that that should only be the case when the WOZ value goes up; it should also be moved along when it goes down. If you don't, you'll have to put in another big risk premium in the interest rate. You will then come to exactly the point where Mr Madlener just addressed me: not all of the Netherlands is Amsterdam. In some parts of the Netherlands, the risk of falling World War II values is very real. In addition, banks can now make such an offer to their customers. Indeed, there are banks that already offer that automatic correction of the margin, but others do not; for example, they can offer a lower starting rate. Thus, you might actually remove that possibility for banks, while customers may have a preference for one or the other. Finally, this also calls for a major ICT adjustment. But I started with the most important consideration: you introduce an aspect that will eventually make the mortgages more mobile.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u21	Of course, I've been thinking about that, too. I even talked to banks about it. The Minister's reasoning is not entirely correct. If a customer finds out that his risk profile has decreased, he is already entitled to that lower interest rate. Consumer organisations have now made standard letters available for this purpose. So you can already request a lower interest rate. Banks also do not give higher interest rates if the value drops. That's just the use, and it's a good thing. Why would you want to break through this practice? So I say that customers are entitled to this and that there are already standard letters from consumer organisations for it. SNS Bank gives a good example: it promises to update each year with customers to see if the interest rate can't be lower. That example could be followed, couldn't it? Surely that doesn't necessarily mean that all interest rates go up if the value turns out to be less favourable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u22	Mr Madlener says that it is a use to lower interest rates at a low World Trade Organisation value. But use is not free. If you only introduce the possibility of a reduction at a higher WPA value but not that of an increase at a declining value of the house, banks will use a risk premium. A bank will have to do that, because it does indeed own not only in Amsterdam, but also at the borders of the country. We might be able to introduce different rates for different parts of the country, but I can imagine that there are other ideas about this in the Chamber. So that bank is going to process that in its rates. The customer now has the opportunity that Mr Madlener wants. He even mentions a bank that offers this, so the product is already there. We do not impose this imperative so that we do not impose the disadvantages that may be attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u23	The point is that some people forget this or do not realise it enough, and therefore pay unnecessary interest. I want to stand up for those people. I also understand that people don't think every day about whether the value of their homes has increased and whether they have redeemed. The banks are fine with that. They're thinking, "I'm not gonna tell you." SNS Bank is an exception. The Minister is now in charge of the banks. He says the banks will have to raise their rates, but that's not how it works. These banks have billions of profits, which are earned by Dutch consumers. And those banks also work internationally. I'm in Belgium a lot. There are two Dutch banks active: the Rabobank and the ING. They have more favourable conditions there than for Dutch consumers. So it doesn't work as the Minister claims. It's not like banks pass on all the risks. The banks are making billions of profits, and we really don't have to feel sorry for that. This is good for consumers and I believe that the Minister should be the Minister of Consumers and not the Minister of Banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u24	This is a nice rhetoric, but it is completely contrary to what Mr Madlener threw at me earlier. First he threw me at the feet of thinking only of Amsterdam and not at the edges of the country. Now that I have indicated the consequences of the proposal for the borders of the country, I am getting a story about the banks, while I have just indicated that it is bad for consumers outside the big cities. That's why I don't want to make it mandatory. The consumer who wants to choose such a product can choose to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u25	There's no such supplement, so the Minister scares people with something that isn't there. Consumers are entitled to lower interest rates, but if a bank finds out it's the other way around, no higher interest rates will be charged. That is an advantage for the consumer, yes; fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u26	That advantage is always priced. That is also apparent from the rates at Belgian banks, because thanks to the European Union, which Mr Madlener is quite against, that Belgian bank can also offer its products in the Netherlands, and a Dutch bank also in Belgium, as the ING does. If it were such a brilliant product, the Dutch market would be flooded by all those Belgian mortgages. There are Belgian providers in the Netherlands, but it is not a cash cracker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u27	I would like to raise a question that was also raised the day before yesterday. 75% of the municipalities have not yet made the WZ values public. What are we going to do to make sure that the municipalities that didn't have it on 1 October do it soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u28	The Minister for the Interior is no longer busy with that, so I think it is a good thing that you ask that same question again when dealing with the internal affairs budget. Mr Van der Linde asked for specific attention to mortgage lending to the elderly and the problems they encounter regularly when they want a mortgage at a later age. I spoke to the banks about this, as I promised the Chamber. I got some signals from them. There are just products on offer. There are also specialist providers for this. The banks didn't have the idea that there was a lot of demand for it. There are examples that I read more in newspapers than I get on my desk from situations where it would not work at all. I thought I had asked the Chamber for examples before, because if I really have concrete examples of cases where it has not been possible, I would be happy to dive into them. The fact that interest rates are low makes an old-fashioned refund-free mortgage, which, although no longer offers a deduction option, is still allowed, a very real option. Because there are banks offering these and because the low interest rate makes it attractive, you would say that it should run quite smoothly. Let me summarize this: I am open to concrete examples of cases where it has gone wrong and will dive into them. With this I hope to have answered the questions about the sales market. I'd like to switch to the rental market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u29	Looks like the market still leads to a few offers. I shall begin with Mrs Schouten-She came first from her place and continue with Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u30	Following on from Mr Ronnes' question, I have a question about the ABF Research report on Nibud standards. It said that much more attention should be paid to the total housing costs. The Minister mentioned the zero-on-the-meter houses, but of course it is not just zero-on-the-meter houses, but also homes that are energy-efficient, but not yet zero-on-the-meter. That could be a way to meet that starter and make sure he gets a little more of a mortgage. Is the Minister prepared to enter into that conversation with the Nibud?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u31	Then I need more precision in what I need to check. The Nibud assumes an income and carries a number of fixed charges, including energy costs. I think the Nibud calculates with average energy label C, which is the average level of Dutch housing. In addition, there is the possibility to borrow more for really economical homes. I don't exactly have the retina that should be further into the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u32	C is the norm, but if you have a property with label B, for example, that is a real step forward when you borrow. The stories I hear show that much more is being looked at the income, loan to value. That's right, but that's not what we're talking about. However, energy is not yet included to such an extent, except when a home is truly energy-neutral. Does that answer the question about the residential expenses and the mortgages that can be provided on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u33	I think I have to sum up in such a way that Mrs Schouten really wants to have a map of whether you already have so much more space in a house with labels A or B, that this also has an impact on mortgage lending. That question is clear, but we are not going to pass it on on the spot. I promise Mrs Schouten that I will go through this, have a list of it made, discuss it with the Nibud and let the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u34	You'll let the Chamber know in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u36	That seems to me to be a good thing, but if there is room there, but that space is not yet being used, I would like to get a proposal from the Minister that he has discussed with the Nibud, for how it can be better taken into account in the loans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u37	I'm also gonna go over those numbers with the Nibud. I have just indicated that I am attached to a division of functions between Nibud and politics. The discussion will first of all aim to see what comes out of the sums. If there are real differences, we will look again at whether they should also be translated into other loan standards. That is, of course, still the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u38	When do we get the information? On what time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u39	I will come in November anyway with the Nibud's proposals and my reaction to them. I'll try to include those calculations in that. I can't quite guarantee that, because it might be complex. Besides, we're already in the middle of October. At least I'm gonna do my best to include that in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u40	So it's not necessarily a separate letter, but it's included in your response to the Nibud.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u42	This is the last budget of this minister. Just a moment ago we had a look back. They also asked for a vision of the housing market. For me, I do not have the insights that the Minister has gained in recent years. The Dutch housing market was in severe weather; when this cabinet started, there was a falling trend. The cabinet felt it was necessary to make a number of interventions with the settlement agreement which made mortgage standards more stringent. People could borrow less. It's had an in-depth effect. You can see that the housing crisis has hit the Netherlands harder than other countries and that it has also affected our economy very much. The Dutch recession was deeper than that in the neighbouring countries, also because people saw their savings evaporate. At the moment, there are 800,000 homes under water.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u43	I assume that this prelude will lead to a question in a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u44	I'd like to ask how the Minister looks back on that. The Dutch population needs stable house prices, not sharply falling or rising, but stable house prices. This cabinet has just broken through, by intervening at the time the market was already falling, as can be seen in the ING report. I would like the Minister to show that insight and say that he has learned a lesson, namely that the housing market is very important for the Dutch economy and for individual property owners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u45	As the President noted, Mr Madlener said a great deal. He said that Dutch people saw their savings evaporate. I'm glad you didn't! That's why we saved banks. That was, by the way, particularly at the time of the Balkenende cabinet. We then, with broad support in the Chamber, saved banks to prevent people from seeing their savings evaporate. After that, however, we saw the housing market collapse rapidly. That started right after the financial crisis. Not only the fact that people lost their jobs here, but also the distrust with which they looked abroad at the way mortgages were provided in the Netherlands, played a very important role. Dutch banks cannot fully finance themselves in the Netherlands and must borrow money abroad. Those banks had to explain every time abroad that people in the Netherlands can borrow 140% of the value of their house and then do not have to pay off. Then they came to borrow money from banks that usually lend only 80% of the value of the house in their own country, which people then have to redeem in 30 years. That is the case in the countries around us. Those foreign banks then said: we are not going to borrow from those Dutch banks anymore. That has had a huge effect. The mortgage market dried up as a result. That was the situation we found in 2012. Because these banks were unable to finance themselves badly, loans to small and medium-sized enterprises also dried up. So that was really very damaging. Then it is unfortunate that you have to intervene in a crisis, but no intervention would have been much worse. That's what we can see from the powerful recovery. Mr Madlener is looking backwards now, but when I look at today, I see that the Netherlands is doing very well compared to the countries around us. They're jealous of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u46	I don't think most people have any funding from a foreign bank after all. Most people just have a mortgage with a Dutch lender. The Netherlands also has a lot of savings. Look at the retirement jars! So we should not pretend that it was all the foreign banks. It was the cabinet that made it harder to get a mortgage. That's why the question went away. That lack of demand was caused by government policy. That has deepened the housing crisis. When I see the minister like that, he's not gonna acknowledge it. He refuses to see that. To be honest, that scares me. Unless the minister says he now realizes that that was unfortunate. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u47	You leave it at that. Will the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u48	Yes, because Mr Madlener is again proclaiming an incorrect statement. He says I would have said that so many Dutch people are financing themselves at foreign banks. I didn't say that. I said that Dutch banks in the Netherlands cannot find enough savings to finance themselves. They're taking that money from abroad. For the technicians among us, that's called the funding gap. The Dutch banks were therefore unable to attract this money during the crisis. That had enormous harmful effects for all those ordinary Dutch people who wanted to buy or refinance a house and for all those people with a small company who needed money. We must never do that damage to the Netherlands again. That is why we have taken this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u49	I was watching TV Sunday morning. The Prime Minister was on the couch with Rick Nieman. A question was asked about the mortgage interest deduction. The Prime Minister said: there is no expert in the Netherlands who is now saying that we need to do something about the mortgage interest deduction. Then I thought, "Well, that's pretty definite." I also know the Prime Minister as someone who is very firm. But that Friday, the President of the Nederlandsche Bank, Klaas Knot, had published a report stating that the mortgage interest rebate should be reduced more quickly. I asked the Minister on Tuesday to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u50	It is true that Mr Koolmees has asked me to respond to Mr Knot's proposals for a faster reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction. He also wants to reduce the loan to value, the value of the mortgage against the house, to 90%. I disagree with him on both points. But a president is independent, so he can say whatever he wants. Mr Koolmees remembers with me the shock effect of the measures taken under the housing agreement. Although it wasn't that bad after all! But he remembers the shock effect. I have always indicated that we must now take a whole series of measures, not only on the market but also on the rental market. But we're not gonna stay busy. Eventually, house buyers, housing corporations and investors need to know what the rules are. Since the measures we have taken, for example the gradual reduction of mortgage interest relief, but also the income-dependent rent increase, have a cumulative effect, it is not necessary to keep adjusting them. The effect is getting bigger and bigger. As far as the other proposal is concerned, the loan to value, I think that 100% is very well justified, because the risks are real. There is still some risk of falling prices, but much less than in the past, while at the same time it is still possible for someone at the beginning of the career to buy a house. You have to have a little savings, but if you don't want an expensive decor right away, you can still buy a house early in your life. If you bring that back to 90%, you're really gonna set up an ever bigger threshold for starters on the housing market. That's not what I'm here for, because at some point, people really get in trouble. Fortunately, we are now seeing the middle rental market developing, but that takes time. That is why I do not agree with both of the bank president's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u51	Of course, I would have expected this answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u52	You asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u53	... but to conclude, does the Minister agree with me that Mr Knot is an expert on mortgages and the housing market?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u54	Certainly, but Mr Koolmees is also a renowned economist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u55	I do not want to compare myself with Mr Knot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u56	I thought it was Churchill who said "give me an economist with one hand now, because otherwise he says: on one side it's like this and on the other side it's like this." So I do not question the expertise of Mr Koolmees or Mr Knot, but I do know more experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u57	I'd like to come back to the mortgage issue. The Minister once again called for examples. I would like to remind him that, in general terms, we have had extensive discussions on mortgage lending. As a result, we have passed on a number of examples. That was a joint consultation with the Minister of Finance. We were told on 6 September that the examples we sent in were continued internally. We have not heard anything about it so far. We can now provide new examples, but it would be nice if we could get feedback on them so that we can do something with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u58	I was not prepared to do that, but if it is as Mr Ronnes says, he is entitled to a quick answer. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u59	In what form?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u60	In the form of a written response. I have already indicated that I have sat around the table with the benches, but I believe Mr Ronnes on his word, so I will check this out and then there will be a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u61	Then the Minister continues the answer in the first period with the second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u62	Mr. Chairman. Major measures have also been taken in the rental market in recent years. In the past year, with the Wet verwacht verwacht verwachtmarkt 2015, in which the rent sum approach is included, the last appointment of the housing agreement has also been laid down in legislation. It is very important, if you look at the social rental market, that the offer of really affordable housing increases. The total stock of social housing in the Netherlands is large, even slightly larger than the target group. Internationally, we even know the largest stock as a percentage of the housing market. There is a distortion in the fact that, at least in the last few years before the crisis, housing corporations have built expensive houses, while the target group has a demand for affordable housing. The majority of the target group of housing corporations concerns single and double households. They don't need big homes at all. At the same time, of course, there is the problem of skewing, which fortunately is decreasing. At least that applies to cheap living crooked. However, it is still the case that about half a million social rental homes are inhabited by people who could actually save themselves outside the social rental market in terms of income. At the same time, there is an increasing demand for free sector rentals. There is a large middle group in the Netherlands that has less need of property, saves a while before wanting to buy a house or have a flexible contract. Much more than in the past, therefore, there is a demand for medium-priced rentals. Mr Ronnes remarked somewhat gloomy about the fact that there was no progress at all in the increase in the share of medium-cost rentals. Fortunately, the world is a little more cheerful than Mr. Ronnes described in his contribution. If you compare the studies that I'm sending to the Chamber, you'll almost double the number of middle-priced rentals in six years, from 240,000 to 460,000. However, estimates indicate that there is a need for about doubling in the coming years. There is, however, a great deal of progress. That is why, in addition to the measures we have already taken, I am announcing a number of measures in this budget, for example that free sector rental can be included as a separate category in the zoning plan. I have recently submitted to the Chamber the modification of the housing valuation system, which makes it possible in the regions of Amsterdam and Utrecht to build compact apartments that are often called studios in the free sector. There's a lot of demand for that. I have also submitted proposals to the Court to simplify the sales rules for the more expensive housing of housing corporations. Housing corporations own more than 70,000 free-sector homes. They're not part of their core task at all. This is not an SGEI (services of general economic interest), to put it in professional jargon. They would serve their actual target group, the people with a small wallet, much better by selling those 70,000 homes, for example to the ABP, PGGM or anyone else, and then putting the proceeds into the new building of really affordable rental homes or into isolating the existing stock. Why should housing corporations be on such a large stock of free sector housing? That's a waste of money. Also at the top of the social segment, they can decide to sell some of the more expensive homes that is their own decision. 40% of the property of housing corporations is made up of single-family homes. Often only one or two people live in them. 80% of the target group consists of single and double households. You really do better when you sell the more expensive properties and put the proceeds into the real target group. That is why I have submitted measures to the Chamber to facilitate that movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u63	I do not deny that the measures taken have added value to get more middle-segment housing, absolutely not. However, we believe that there should be a acceleration. For student accommodation, we once made an action plan. That is actually what the CDA is aiming for, which is taking the same step for the middle segment. The Minister wrote in a letter to the Chamber that he was setting up a consultation platform to facilitate this. We would like to see us go a step further and really come up with a concrete action plan, especially for the cities where this pressure is highest. I think we have already solved a very large part of the problem with an approach for the cities where the biggest problems are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u64	In any case, I would like to thank Mr Ronnes for noting with me that a number of good steps have been taken. There's something else that comes to mind. I've been referring to all the living visions I found on my desk. The most recent one was Donner's. I read through it and thought, "mission accomplished." It was not given to Piet Hein Donner at the time, but actually the CDA can go to the grassroots satisfied and say: we did not support everything, but often things did, and what our minister wanted was done by the cabinet we did not always agree with. That brings me to Mr Ronnes' question, which is to put a little bit of effort into it. So I agree. I was not yet at the end of the measures announced. I am going to refer this amendment of the zoning plan to the Chamber in legislation, and those other rules are now before the Chamber. So if she's telling me to do that right now, I'm gonna do that. The latter is indeed the announcement of a cooperation table to bring together municipalities and institutional investors, to set the table, to step up that pace. In my opinion, this is very similar to the approach taken by the National Action Plan for Student Housing. I am happy to share with the Chamber what its plan of action looks like and what progress is being made as soon as that hunting table has made the first meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u65	Mr President, I do not wish to comment on this point anymore, but I would like to ask a question about the first part of the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u66	That's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u67	My question is about the social hire segment. The Minister says that there are, in principle, enough social housing and that there is no problem at the moment. My group feels differently, given the long waiting lists. The Minister also reported to the Chamber that those waiting lists have become longer. However, something else is that the Planning Office for the Environment found that at the beginning of the cabinet period 13% of tenants belonged to the risk group as regards the rent payment. At present 18% of tenants belong to that risk group. This increase is, of course, an indication of a deterioration in the supply on the social rental market. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u68	Well, I've taken firm action on that, too. I call it appropriate assignment. I often have a discussion with Mr Ronnes on this appropriate allocation. However, I have taken this measure precisely because we find that housing companies are there for people with the small wallet. They must ensure that they deliver truly affordable housing for that target group. That is why I have introduced this appropriate allocation and I have just made a whole speech on this. I think it is rational to sell the stock of more expensive homes and to invest in cheap homes. The figures show, also from the figures on the rent surcharge, that there is relatively too expensive rent to people with a small wallet. There will be an additional incentive in the form of an additional discount on the landlord's tax, especially for cheaper homes. We'll go into that a little further later. I see Mr De Vries at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u69	I'll come back anyway at the point of the middle-priced rentals. We have noticed for some time that there is a problem. Yeah, there's movement. Yes, there is a lot of money on the shelf for building these houses, just to get more offer of middle-priced rentals, especially in areas where the housing market is tense. However, we hear very often that the problem is that municipalities prefer buying houses because they produce more. In the local housing visions, an agreement is always made about a part of social housing, because it is enforced by the city council. But there's nothing in there about a share of middle rent. That's just because of ignorance. The Minister's first reaction to this was a year ago: we leave it to the local authorities. I am pleased that the Minister is now taking the first steps to bring this problem to the attention of the municipalities and to include issues in planning. However, I have made a suggestion to give this a boost. I gave an example from Amsterdam. D66 says in Amsterdam: on the Zuidas we do 30% cheap middle rentals. How does the Minister feel about that? Is he willing, for example, to include this in the development of that zoning vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u70	I think what Amsterdam is doing here is very sensible. Indeed, in a residential vision, it should not only be about the traditional categories of social rental and purchase, but also about middle-priced rentals. So, where I have a legal option, I'd like to use it. That goes through those zoning plans. Eventually, however, such a living vision and performance agreements are made at local level. So I don't have any instruments for that. But in that respect, I'm still on the same page as last year. I really think it's up to the local government to assess the size of the different parts of the housing market. That requires local customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u71	I agree. Ultimately, it is of course a local responsibility to determine how much of which type should be. The situation also varies, of course, from one region to another. In Delfzijl the housing market is very different than in Amsterdam, to mention Amsterdam once more. But the minister has a directing role and has a responsibility for the housing market throughout the country. So this doesn't mean he can't push in the right direction. For four years now, I believe, we have seen EUR 4 billion to EUR 6 billion on the shelf that can be built. But we also note every year that this amount has grown. Something's not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u72	I think that the Amsterdam example is one of the things that this consultation table should carry out. There we have to say: this is the way it can be done. I also say to Mr Koolmees: I am a little less gloomy. Every year I go in consultation with investors on the well-known, rather lame stock exchange in Munich. There I stand with the aldermen of the big cities. We all have a very different political colour, but you do not notice that at the time. We are in complete agreement with each other, and so do those investors. I have just mentioned the numbers to Mr Ronnes, and it is not that nothing happens. Until three years ago, no one in the Netherlands had heard of Patrizia, a large German pension investor. This has not only bought existing houses from Vestia, but has also started new construction projects. That's the beauty of it; especially around the big cities, foreign investors are actually starting new construction projects. The major task at present lies with medium-sized cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u73	The Minister is now moving in the direction of the PvdA, because we do not understand very well that the middle segment in particular needs to be filled with the sale of social housing. We have a very different view of the task of corporations. They can also house middle groups. I asked first of all whether we could not agree with our pension funds that they would actually build throughout the country. If you start building new in the middle segment, there will be more houses and there is a need for them. I have made the suggestion of reconsidering whether something like this can come up against a very modest return and perhaps even with a guarantee. If the Empire gives a certainty, it can also ask something to build throughout the country and not only in the scarcity areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u74	Mr De Vries was still entitled to answer his question on pension funds. I would add this to another proposal by Mr De Vries. He also asked me whether the housing valuation system should not be extended to 200 points in what is still the free sector. I put these two together, because a pension fund and every investor will experience that as two opposite messages. He hears that Dutch politics wants him to invest in middle-priced rentals. That is what he wants to do if he can achieve a return on this, because he has to pay pensions, and that is difficult enough. He gets nothing from these Dijsselbloem and his colleagues and he even has to pay extra and because the interest rate is so low, the stock exchanges are very high. He doesn't know where to go with his money. Then rentals are a logical investment. However, if he gets the message that he has to invest here and that his earning opportunities are limited, such a pension fund says that he cannot make it to his pensioners and then invest in England, Germany or France, at least a country where his earnings are not cut. The combination of that package isn't gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u75	We also fundamentally disagree on this. That you have fair rules at what price you can rent out seems perfectly normal to me, even for a pension fund. Then it knows where it's going. With the housing valuation system you will be above 142 points in no time and you can ask for decent rents. Some regulation to control the wild west simply finds the PvdA useful. Pension funds have a very important interest and that is that they make a return. That doesn't have to be such a high return, I understand. My other question was whether it would not be tempting to use the rate of return in order to smooth out this very serious shortage in the middle-cost rental sector throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u76	Mr De Vries' two wishes are incompatible. It is not a question of whether he and I are in agreement; it is a question of whether a pension fund would like to set up these rental homes on Mr De Vries' terms. I'll outline why they don't. By the way, they just have a phone number and all friendly people, so anyone can talk to them. They will outline that they are interested in these rental houses, very much, but not if the rents are cut. I wouldn't know what that guarantee is supposed to mean, by the way. They want a guarantee that they can make a normal return. On the one hand, if I say that they should not increase their rents but, on the other hand, receive a guarantee of return, the taxpayer should pay extra. It's just an experiment with thoughts, but I don't see that construction. She's not necessary either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u77	I will allow an interruption if it is very short, Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u78	The minister does make it a bit of a caricature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u79	That is why I now give you the opportunity to respond very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u80	That housing system offers room for rent increases. It's about the reasonableness with which that happens. It's not a big deal if that's recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u81	Okay, that was an addition and perhaps a correction. Mr Bashir also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u82	The waiting lists in the social sector are huge. People are waiting for a rental for years. Now the Minister has looked back on the past few years. Four years ago, the cabinet, at least the coalition parties concluded an agreement stating that the stock of social housing would not decrease. Nevertheless, the stock has decreased considerably over the past six years: with 260,000 rentals. The waiting lists have only gotten longer as a result. Why didn't the Minister implement the agreement? Why didn't he ensure that the stock of social housing remained the same, as was included in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u83	In any case, it is reassuring that the SP sees itself as a guardian of the coalition agreement of VVD and PvdA. What was and still is said was a sentence about how those homes would be handled when the rents would be increased. It said: "If the rent is increased, the property remains a social housing. This is how the social rental stock is maintained." The second part of the sentence is therefore about the space for rent increase. The government agreement does not say: there is a ban on the sale of rental houses. Or: the number is now.............................................................................................................................................................................................. As far as those waiting lists are concerned, I think it is exactly a year since Mr Bashir said to me: investigate those waiting lists. I did, because I agreed with him that this subject will come back again and again in the discussion and that we do not have a proper investigation. For the first time there was a national survey of waiting lists. I sent it to the Chamber. That leaves a very differentiated picture, but a few things come out very hard: two thirds of people are not looking for a home, but are listed "in case" and the differences between the regions are huge, including between the big cities. In Amsterdam and Utrecht, the situation is tense, but in The Hague it is much less so. I have often told Mr Bashir that I have worked in the centre of Amsterdam for many years. I've never lived in Amsterdam before. I've always been forensic from The Hague. There are a lot of people who want to live in the centre of Amsterdam. I understand. I like that city, too. However, that is quite different from poignant deficits. Perhaps the most striking thing in that study was that of the group of people looking for a home, less than 5% is looking for a home related to work or care. If you have to divide up scarcity, I was talking about it in last week's debate with Mr Koolmees, you have to find an objective basis for dividing up the scarcity. If someone in the neighborhood provides care or is a night nurse or a district agent, I think Mr Koolmees gave these examples on Tuesday, I think it is perfectly logical that that same municipality should include Amsterdam in its home establishment regulation: the law gives us the opportunity to give priority to people with an economic bond, so we do so. I know the city isn't doing that right now. Now it is a system where you save endless waiting times, even when you live in Amsterdam-Noord and prefer to live in Amsterdam-Centrum. You can use current legislation to properly serve the people who are really close to their work or their sick friend or family member.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u84	Tuesday we had the first term of office. Then I asked the same question to the PvdA group. Then it was said: Mr Bashir of the SP has a point, because it is indeed in the coalition agreement and unfortunately we have not complied with it. Who was responsible for the implementation of the coalition agreement on this subject? This minister. Indeed, you can sell and you can demolish, as long as you make sure that enough is being built to maintain the stock. What has happened over the past few years? While we have waiting lists you can discuss whether that is bad; the VVD and the cabinet don't mind, but the SP does think that is very bad. However, the coalition agreement makes it very clear that the stock would remain the same. I wonder if the PvdA Group has made a point of this or just let it go. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u85	I have already explained that Mr Bashir quotes the second part of a sentence without quoting the first part. I also count my blessings, namely that for once I do not get any criticism from the SP for implementing the coalition agreement, but that I now get criticism for not implementing it in his eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u86	The Minister continues his speech. If you have a question to the Minister, you can ask it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u87	I have a question for the Minister. Has the PvdA Group made a point of this or has she just let it go?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u88	I know the PvdA Group as very critical. I wish she'd let something go that I do, but she never really does. This also applies to the VVD Group. It's a tough job, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u89	I understand you're going through with light spirits, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u90	With this budget, the measures taken in the rental market must certainly not ignore the fact that there is an additional budget for the rent supplement to increase purchasing power for people with small pockets. The own contribution to the rental fee is reduced and that means that people with the lowest incomes receive more than €10 extra per month. In addition, the deficits in the rent payment that were actually in the budget for the years after this cabinet were eliminated. This is first of all good news for the tenants who depend on rent payments, but also for those who may have to negotiate a next cabinet. I come to the questions about the landlord's tax. Mrs. Voortman asked for that first. She asked if I would convert the landlord's tax into an investment obligation, so that more social housing would be realized. Mr Bashir asked for a response to the proposal put forward by the SP. I have shared with the Chamber not only the financial position of housing corporations, but also the investment capacity they still have. I have also outlined how much space it offers when it is used for new construction, more than 200,000 homes, and the space it offers for renovation. It can also be used for rent reduction, but it can't all be on top of each other. The financial position of housing corporations is very strong. When housing corporations are financially so strong that they can carry out their core tasks well and when the supervisors say so, it is therefore not logical to bring extra money there either. We are now using this money to do the things the government has to pay, the AOW, the agents, the teachers and the rent allowance. If I don't have that money available for that, there will be consequences. That would be really unwise. Again, I understand those housing corporations don't like paying for that. This also applies to private landlords with social housing. Unlike the prediction of four years ago, however, it turns out to be very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u91	Of course, it's still a weird idea. A tax on rental houses that has to be paid by housing corporations, indirectly by tenants, to pay the AOW and all kinds of other items. So the tenants pay for that. Wouldn't it make much more sense to raise that money for these measures in another way? Then you'd have to think of something that everyone would pay for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u92	It's the landlords who own social housing that pay. It's not just the housing corporations. Mr Bashir also discussed this in detail in his first term. He mentioned a tax on housing corporations, but it is a tax on social housing, even if they are owned by private landlords. They've been reporting extensively. Why is that levy justified? Because both the landlords in the form of housing corporations and the private landlords receive huge support in the form of the rent surcharge. He'll end up with that landlord. The Chamber has also had a policy review of me on the rent payment, in which it is very clearly shown that the rents are higher as a result of that rent payment. So we're really subsidising those landlords. The landlords who have been on the market for decades have received very large amounts of subsidies. We knew at the time that we introduced this tax that a very large part, half of the tax, could be paid very well out of efficiency measures in housing corporations. There were calculations that were also supported by the sector. Everyone who has spoken to housing corporations in recent years has heard back: they were nasty measures, but we have indeed started to work more efficiently. This can also be seen in the reports received by the Chamber on the cost of housing corporations. So there's just been a lot of bureaucracy demolished. It's about money that didn't benefit the tenants at all. The measure is sound and fair. On balance, there is still a substantial amount of tax money going towards the social rental sector, because it is also right that people with a small wallet receive support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u93	The Minister barely went into my point of taking money from landlords to pay for other measures that are not specific to living. That is why I proposed that this levy should at least be converted into an investment obligation. At least that money will come back to those homes. Then you say, okay, we put it in sustainability or more social housing. But in this way it is a charge for landlords to fill a deficit in the treasury. That's really weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u94	Fortunately, we now agree that it is a levy for landlords. And yes, any tax or tax is used for the general pot. Nor is it the case that we impose a tax on the elderly to pay the AOW. It's paid out of all the revenue. Nor is it the case that we take income tax one-on-one back to those who pay it. That's never the case with taxes. It's a political consideration of how you do that. It is again the time of the election programs and the credit transfers. If parties think that they can raise this 1.7 billion in a different way or that they can find savings for the same amount, then they have plenty of room to indicate that in their electoral programme and to show the consequences of that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u95	The Minister contradicts himself anyway. When we were talking about the rent-based approach, the SP proposed that rents should only increase with inflation and not with more. Then the Minister said: we must be careful, because housing corporations must also have investment space. Now the minister says again: they have enough money; if they want to build, they can build and if they want to lower the rents they can lower the rents. Of course, that can't be both true. What's true now? Do they have investment space and can they also reduce the rents or can we use the landlord's tax to reduce the rents and also to make sure that they are built again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u96	The space for the landlords to convert is, of course, calculated on the basis of the rents they are allowed to calculate. At the time when we put in the law "you may use average inflation plus 1% as a rental sum approach," we calculate the investment capacity on that basis. If you calculate the investment capacity on the basis of only inflation, as the SP wants, then it decreases incredibly. By the way, this calculation was made when the previous election programmes were passed on, because then the SP put the rents on inflation, which led to the opinion of the Central Planning Bureau that the waiting lists would be considerably longer because there would be much less construction. That conclusion will not be different now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u97	Then it would be logical to abolish the landlord's tax and to use that money to reduce the rents and to give the construction an incentive. If you consider that companies in the Netherlands pay corporation tax, while housing corporations that also pay, but only the social landlords are taxed by a landlord tax, you cannot explain that this is social and fair. Multinationals and large companies pay profit tax. Housing corporations pay them too, but they also pay the landlord's tax. I can't explain that to anyone, but maybe the Minister can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u98	I would like to help Mr Bashir. Whether the landlord is a housing corporation or another e.g. that is subject to corporation tax, in both cases he pays the landlord's tax and corporation tax. That's not just for housing corporations. I can make it worse for him. Whether you're a housing corporation or a private landlord, you just pay excise and vehicle tax on your company car and VAT on the tables you have at the office. That treatment is no different. There are other differences, but not in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u99	I invite the Minister to prosecute and finish his response. I have a little insight into his text and I just feel like this block is gonna take a while. We're gonna finish that for a while, and then I'm gonna allow some interruptions about the part of the rental market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u100	Mr. Chairman. Mr Krol, who is not there, but is probably listening, asked if there is still sufficient capacity for new construction. I have already said that the total estimates show room for some 200,000 homes. The housing corporations themselves also make projections that are shared with the Chamber. They show that, after a dip in the production of social housing in 2014 and 2015, they want to grow back to a level of around 20,000 social housing in the coming years. That's the level you saw before the crisis. In the projections of the housing corporations for social housing houses they used to build free-sector housing, but they shouldn't do that anymore, you see that they want to grow back to the old trend. That confirms that their assessment is that their financial position leaves room for that. Mr Ronnes, Mr De Vries and Mr Koolmees asked whether the regulations on the social rental market take account of regional differences. My answer to that is a definite yes. In fact, the regulation has never provided as much scope for regional differences as it does now. One of the measures we have taken is to introduce the World Health Organisation into the housing valuation system. Formerly, a house in Delfzijl with the same surface area and the same distance from the bus stop had the same maximum rent as a house in Amsterdam. It was part of the housing agreement to introduce the WPA value; so regional tailor-made work. The rent-sum approach was the last part of the housing agreement we performed last year. It limits national space for the average rent increase, but also the rent increase for people who are still far from the maximum allowed rent. This provides an explicit opportunity to make local agreements within these legal framework conditions. That's another example of local customization. I have sent to the Chamber the proposal that I mentioned, but it also fits in, to provide additional space for the construction of smaller rental apartments in the free sector in cities with the biggest deficits, in the regions of Amsterdam and Utrecht. That's bespoke again. At the Chamber there is now a legislative proposal on the adjustment of the landlord's tax. The landlord levy already had regional components, such as the demolition deduction for the shrinkage areas and the additional deduction for Rotterdam-Zuid. Those deductions are being extended. In addition, there will be a build impulse for cheap homes, which will also be extra large for the scarcity areas in the Netherlands. That whole package leads me to the conclusion that there has never been so much room for local customization as it is now. As regards the estimates of housing needs per region, the Chamber has indicated by adopting the Housing Act Kamerbreed that municipalities should be in the driver's seat when it comes to local housing needs. We have now supported the municipalities with calculations of the investment space. I will also make sure that I have as many regional housing market forecasts as possible available and thus also at a lower level than nationally reflect the expected demand. My intention is to show the Chamber in the state of housing, which will be available again next spring, how I expect that demand to develop by region. Mr De Vries asked me to go into the plan he presented earlier to fill it with a large number of affordable, prefabricated houses where there are shortages of social housing. In practice, there are a number of applications of this example. Perhaps that is also the reason why Mr De Vries is bringing this up. For example, I myself visited examples at the Wonen Limburg corporation. In Almere the municipality has worked very enthusiastically with tiny houses, or "little houses," as Mr Elias would say. Those are quick to produce prefab houses. This indeed indicates that the technique is there and also the willingness of municipalities and housing corporations to start working on it. Here too, however, it does not make sense to suddenly send it nationwide. It's the local question that has to determine this. In Limburg, the balance is very strong that the forecasts for the next five to ten years still show growth, but then shrink. Then this is a logical choice. If we apply this in Amsterdam, for example, I can imagine that this is attractive for some people, but that some of the people on the waiting list will continue to say: well, if I have the choice between a quick set-up, reconstructed house in Amsterdam-Zuidoost and that house in the Jordaan that I really want, I will still be on the waiting list for the Jordaan. So where this can be done, we need to use it, but here too, we need to have the balancing done locally. What can help with acceleration, whether it is prefab or permanent construction, is adapting the ladder for sustainable urbanisation, which my colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment is working on. In a sensible application, it makes it possible to build faster than it is now. The housing cooperative led to questions from Mrs Voortman and Mrs Schouten. They asked me whether sufficient progress is being made and whether I can remove the obstacles. Mrs Schouten cites the example in Jirnsum. It seems to me that there have been cases there. Mrs Voortman specifically asked about the funding. Or was it the other way around? In any case, both ladies are interested in the progress and the bottlenecks. As far as financing is concerned, I recently made it possible, as an experiment, for people who want to set up a housing cooperative to be able to take over the homes of a corporation against the same condition as an individual buyer. This can be done with discounts of up to 50%, provided that there are also agreements on the sharing of profits on intermediate sales. It takes an important price bump. First of all, on the question of financing, I would point out that not every housing cooperative needs funding. There is also a form where the housing remains the property of the housing corporation and the management takes place in a cooperative form. For financing there is on the one hand the entire instruments of buying with National Mortgage Guarantee. On the other hand, there is a support program set up via Platform31. In doing so, we want to offer standard contracts and a standard legal form to facilitate this financing. Of course, all this is happening within the sine qua non that funding remains sound. I just said that a discount on the price is possible, as is the case with sitting tenants who want to buy. All this must also take place within responsible rules of the game. After all, you do not want community property to be given out of your hands without proper guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u101	Mrs. Schouten, I see you want to interrupt. I actually said I'd allow interruptions at the end of the block. I don't think that's quite over, unless I'm wrong. I would like to invite you to spare your interruption until that moment, unless the Minister now indicates that he has come to the end of that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u102	That's right. I'm at the end of the rental chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u103	I also see Mr De Vries at the microphone. Then it is only fair, Mr de Vries, that I should first give Mrs Schouten the opportunity to place her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u104	I would like to thank the Minister for giving us certain options to facilitate funding. We are still getting signals that there are also problems or hiccups in other areas of funding. Last Tuesday, at the General Financial Reviews, a motion was adopted asking the Minister of Finance to identify the financing possibilities of cooperatives in the field of energy and housing and, if necessary, to remove bottlenecks. I therefore believe that the Minister for Housing will still have a visit from the Minister of Finance to discuss how possible other hiccups can be removed. Then we are happy to continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u105	That was an announcement; the Minister can take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u106	When the Minister of Finance brings money, he is always welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u107	That would be awesome, but I can't give that guarantee to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u108	Too bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u109	It may be possible to look together where there are other obstacles, for example with the banks that provide mortgages to people who are going to participate in a residential cooperative. How, for example, can these obstacles be removed? That's on the intersection of Finance and Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u110	Okay. Thank you for that. I see to the Minister that there is no need for him to answer this. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Voortman and then to Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u111	Indeed, I had mentioned the market-based prices in my contribution. The Minister says that there will be an experiment, so that it can also be considered whether prices can be at the same level as an individual buyer. I think that sounds very interesting, because it does take away quite a price bump. The motion I had prepared on this subject, I will leave it in my back pocket for a while. I was wondering when that experiment was gonna go on. Can the Minister keep us informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u112	From the top: until 2018. The Chamber will receive from me the State of the housing market and the State of the housing. I think it is logical that I should also comment on the progress made on residential cooperatives and thus on the experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u113	Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u114	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u115	I am a little surprised at the Minister's reaction to housing shortages in this country, which are enormous because there is far too little construction. He continues to trust that the municipalities can do so themselves. We see, however, that the number of building applications from the municipalities is falling dramatically, while the amount of land offered in the categories where demand is highest is far below the level. I wonder how the Minister is going to give substance to his legal task of ensuring that there is sufficient housing if he does not intervene in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u116	I just outlined a whole package of measures. I have also outlined that there is enough money. They were even Mr De Vries' words: money is not the problem. I have outlined that I will come up with an additional package of measures for the biggest bottleneck, the middle-priced rental market. Nationally, we all have the signals on green. We have just said in the House Act that we give the municipalities more powers because the local knowledge about demand, opportunities and available land lies with the municipalities, whereas that land is always in the hands of the municipalities. We have given the tenants a legally established role. Surely we can never improve that from The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u117	I do not argue that we should take all this away from the municipalities, but if this municipal authority leads to insufficient production, then the tenants and the buyers suffer greatly. The prices go up, the rents go up and people are waiting a long time for a house. It is simply a primary task of the Minister to ensure that there is sufficient living space. There are municipalities in this country that do not want to build social housing, but there is demand for it. I think it is the duty of the Minister to intervene where things go wrong, not everywhere, but where there are real deficits and to say that there should be a tooth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u118	In the municipalities where it goes wrong, will our colleagues in the city council intervene? Isn't this an incredibly important subject for the voters in every municipality? Where can our children live? Where can our elderly parents live? That's at the top of the municipal agenda and the solutions are there, right? After all, it is the same municipality that makes the zoning plans. It is the same municipality that sells the land and fixes the price of that land. So the problem and the solution lie together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u119	That is all true, but in practice we see that the number of building permits is falling dramatically and that the amount of land made available is seriously inadequate in relation to the need. Some municipalities deliberately send out the social sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u120	That was not a question; I am sorry that I gave you a third chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u121	I would like to return to the subject of regionalisation. I agree with the Minister that he has done a lot to allow for more local customization, but I also note that Aedes, for example, says that we are not yet there. The Minister also started in the government agreement to fully incorporate the WPA value into the housing valuation system, precisely in order to take account of local differences. I also overheard the Minister talking about the rent allowance. In some regions this is an income meeting, in others it is the basis of the rent. Finally, the Minister says that it is a local responsibility to make the housing visions. I agree with him. However, we do have a nationwide housing valuation system and a national rental payment system. Is the Minister prepared to reconsider whether this regionalisation can be better designed? Amsterdam has a different housing market than Delfzijl or Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u122	This, of course, quickly leads you to the question of when it becomes so complex that it misses its goal. As Mr Koolmees may know, one of my predecessors, Mrs Dekker, has tried to introduce a differentiated system of rentals. That was not possible at the time, precisely because of the complexity. Mr Koolmees gives the example of the World Trade Organisation as a complete basis for the housing valuation system of the coalition agreement.............................................................................................................................................................................................. The special thing was that the proposal came from the Living 4.0, agreement concluded by corporations, brokers and Association Eigen Huis. The moment we wanted to do that, the hell broke out, because in the shrinkage areas a lot of corporations calculated that the rents would go down and in other areas they saw that the rents would go up with great leaps. I think it would be wise to periodically look at every aspect of our housing market policy to determine whether it still works as we intended. In the case of landlord charges, after three years it is said: it is bearable, but still we are going to change it in a number of other places. I have introduced the WOZ component into the housing valuation system, but I say here that I propose to add an extra component to the real scarcity areas. At the moment, I do not see any national system change that would result in an improvement without greater complications. At the moment, therefore, I would say that we should take the steps that I am now presenting to the Chamber, without again presenting a major change in the system on the horizon, because that would cause a lot of unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u123	The ibo to the rent payment is still coming. I hope there's something in there. I see a problem now. Of course, we can introduce a patchwork every time by assigning extra points for the regions of Amsterdam and Utrecht, and perhaps for Eindhoven in a year's time. I'm not saying that disrespectfully. But isn't it better to look at this more fundamentally, precisely on the basis that we still have local housing visions and that municipalities are given responsibility for their own housing market policies, which also creates room for differences in housing valuation systems and rent payments, so that more tailor-made work is made possible locally? Again, Delfzijl is different from Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u124	The ibo will come to the Chamber this fall. With that ibo in front of us, we have a great opportunity to discuss further routes that we do not have in mind now, but which we may be seeing on the basis of that report. I now turn to the other subjects in the area of living and building. First of all, the Quality Assurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u125	In order to get structure into the debate, I would first like to ask the Minister a question. I am of course a layman between all of you, but do I see it right that only two blocks will follow? The first concerns more generic measures in housing and sustainable construction. And aren't the state services coming after that? Or am I going too short now? That is how we know when to interrupt. I allow interruptions at the end of every block. I would ask the Minister to respond immediately and quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u126	The Quality Assurance Act is now in the Chamber. Its purpose is to remedy the deficiencies identified. After all, the consumer does not always get what he is entitled to. Quality assurance is good in many municipalities, but unfortunately not in some. The constructions are getting more complicated. For a lot of reasons, it has actually been said a number of years ago that quality assurance needs to be improved. I hope that we will deal with the law as a whole quickly. Mr Van der Linde specifically asked about the consequences for the fees that municipalities calculate. They can increase considerably in some larger new construction projects and consumers will have to pay again for this. It has already been laid down by law that fees should be covering costs; at least, not the individual fees, but the whole of the fee should be covering costs. The power to determine the exact height by type of structure was given to the same municipalities; we were just talking about that. I agree with Mr Van der Linde: if you give the municipalities more of a role in the back hand and they are therefore going to make less of a cost, it must obviously have consequences for the fee. This subject certainly has my attention. I speak very frequently about this law with all those involved, and also with the UNG. It does not fit in our way of dealing with the co-governments to impose this obligation, but I certainly already have this in mind with this law. Mr Madlener asked a question about the private clientship. He indicated that in the Netherlands we have too little attention for and space for people who want to build a house themselves. I agree with him that this is a fantastic opportunity. I am a little more positive about this than what I thought I heard in his speech, because the crisis has allowed us to see a significant increase in this in recent years, as well as perhaps a little thanks to the crisis. Traditionally, a number of municipalities were frontrunners. For example, as Almere's alderman, Adri Duivetteijn has played a very important role in this, but a municipality like The Hague, where it was not possible for the crisis, has started a lot of self-building projects. There may be less than Mr Madlener wants, but they are really there. I've been watching them and I've met some very enthusiastic people there. In any case, I think it is as important as Mr Madlener. So a separate team has been set up, the Expertteam Eigenbouw. This team reminds municipalities of the possibility of building their own buildings and helps them, because especially for smaller municipalities it is best to have the expertise to make housing possible in this way. That expert team is running like a bulldozer. There's really a lot of demand for it. So along that route we encourage that. Last year the Building Decision was simplified for this target group. The requirements to be met by self-builders are less sharp than those to be met by professional builders. A number of questions have been asked about sustainability. Mrs Voortman asked if housing corporations have enough money to meet the sustainability challenge. I already indicated that we calculated the investment space of housing corporations. If they were to make full use of the space they have for housing improvement, that would be EUR 28 billion. That amount is added to the amount earmarked for the intentions they already have, because a lot of housing corporations are doing just fine to make the stock more sustainable. The amount for own plans up to 2020 is already 5 billion. Is that enough? There is an agreement with the housing corporations to strive for an average label B by 2020. The investment needed to get that average label B would be about 15 billion. That 15 billion fits within the amounts I just mentioned. With this long speech, I would just like to point out that the investment possibilities, including for the agreements on energy saving, are sufficient. Mrs. Voortman asked if a state guarantee would be possible. The current system of corporate bonding is, in fact, a state guarantee. As long as they meet the standards of the Social Housing Guarantee Fund, the system can also finance investments aimed at saving energy. In addition, a number of instruments for grants and low-cost loans are available for housing corporations. Mr Houwers asked whether it was possible to make a link between the level of the rent allowance and the energy consumption of a house. That seems to me unwise for a few reasons. The rent allowance is there to allow people with a small wallet to live, but you should not remove every incentive to energy saving. It's good for the wallet not to burn too much. In addition, it is also pleasant when tenants cooperate when the housing corporation comes along and says she wants to make the homes more sustainable. That's always the same thing for the tenant because the house is being rebuilt, but he'll be more inclined to do so if he sees the benefit of it in his wallet because the energy bill goes down. If you remove that advantage by including the energy costs in the rent allowance, you will also remove an incentive to save energy. So I wouldn't want it along that route. Mrs Schouten proposes that she may even table an amendment to encourage zero-on-the-meter housing, i.e. the most economical housing in social housing, by giving an additional deduction for the landlord tax and by financing it from the increase in tobacco duty. I think, quite frankly, that this is not necessary because we have recently adopted the Energy Performance Compensation Act in the Chamber. On the contrary, the parties involved in the Streamspeed project, the large project of the zero-on-the-meter houses, have always indicated that they can get started when the law is in place. They didn't ask for extra money. Apart from the fact that I don't think that raising taxes elsewhere is such a sympathetic method, I don't think it is necessary either. In addition, we also have the possibility of the extra low interest rate loan from the Fund energy saving rental sector, the FEH. That fund was set up for investments in the most economical housing. Mr. Bishop asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u127	Perhaps it is right to point out that Mr Bishop is not present in the Chamber at the moment, but that he is elsewhere in the building because of obligations. I'm sure there's someone listening, but at least the answer comes in the Acts. I therefore ask the Minister to give the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u128	Mr Bishop asked about the position of teenage mothers in the allocation of social housing, as well as whether we pay sufficient attention to this. This is one of the categories for which the Housing Act makes it possible to designate urgency. After all, these will generally be mothers who fall into the category of'social care'. If Mr Bishop gets signals that this is not happening enough, I would like to remind the UNG once again of this possibility. Mr Van der Linde asked whether I should not intervene in the land prices that municipalities use for social rents. This is due to the observation that housing corporations generally obtain land well below the market price, which means that the market price for other builders, free sector rentals or residential properties is rising. It is also allowed under European legislation to offer land below market value for real social housing, the provision of SGEIs in European terms. Apart from the European rules, this also seems reasonable to me, also because of the constitutional objective that you want to be able to provide people with a really small wallet with good housing. Wherever my care is much more, it's in that middle-priced rent. Mr Koolmees pointed out that too. Where municipalities are all over the place to offer this very low land price to housing corporations, it is assumed that the rest of the land will have to go out at one price. It is only logical to make a distinction between the free sector part of the land use plan, which I also want to make possible in the zoning plan and the part of the purchase, and to take this into account in the price, because in almost all municipalities in the Netherlands people with a middle income are by far the largest group. You need to make sure there's enough housing for that. I have to look for a moment now, because a number of questions have already been answered in the event of interruption. Mr Van Vliet asked whether the State of the Housing Market and the State of Housing could not be better merged. These are both reports that the Chamber has asked for, partly in the survey that Mr Van Vliet chaired. I have planned the State of the Housing Market for early November and the State of the Housing for April. I can offer the Chamber to sit on this chair in April, I suppose, to see if we still want these reports to exist side by side or we're going to merge them into the next series. I'm gonna take a serious look at that option. A decision can then be taken in April. This brings me to the end of my reply on the remaining issues relating to the housing market. I'd like to move on to the questions about the state service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u129	Fine. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Houwers. He was just the first to be on the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u130	I'm afraid I didn't put my finger on Tuesday. The Minister mentioned the combination of rent and energy-efficient consumption. Of course, it is to be welcomed that tenants themselves do the necessary. Of course, it is also to be welcomed that tenants cooperate when they are being preserved. My question, however, was whether it would also be possible to grant rent payments only with a given energy label. We could say that we strive for the average of a B, but that someone can only get rent allowance if he has at least a D-label. This way you can give an incentive to landlords, both in the private and in the social sector, and ensure that the burden of living remains affordable in total. So I wasn't so much concerned with what they actually consume, but more about what is offered by the landlord.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u131	I understand the question. If you do not pay rent to tenants at a low energy-efficient property, you will not find the landlord but the tenant. Then you actually hit the tenant in the hope that the landlord will find that pathetic as well. I don't think that's a logical point of reference. Hence we have made agreements with the landlords regarding an average label B.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u132	I understand. Nor would I like it to happen in the case of existing leases. That's where people agreed to meet. You have to respect that. I think you shouldn't meet the tenant either, but especially the landlord. I also think you'll find the landlord. I know from experience that if a landlord wants to rent a property without a tenant having the opportunity to get rent payment, the rental will be considerably more difficult. If you create some kind of incentive in that way, so that someone who wants to rent a property ensures that that property has a certain minimum label, I think you can really do something with that. The Minister doesn't have to answer it now, but he might want to take this with him again. That is what I would like to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u133	Well, at least we'd like to hear that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u134	Again, there are simply agreements made with the housing corporations regarding an average label B. I also see a lot of enthusiasm in housing corporations. It's gonna be exciting if we make it. I'll send the Chamber a report on that shortly. I think the landlord is the logical target. Suppose you are no longer allowed to rent with rent allowance in scarcity areas such as the Amsterdam and Utrecht regions if the energy label has not yet been improved. Then you're really gonna get people in trouble. Some of them will say: I want to live here so badly that I take it for granted that it is a bit drafty here or that my energy bill is higher. In order to make this impossible through the rent payment, I think it is rather drastic. Then I find the route through the landlord really more sympathetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u135	That route also goes through the landlord. With the social landlords that is arranged, but are also private landlords. If people can't afford it themselves, they won't just say they're accepting a more trekking home, but then they'll also move to make it more sustainable. That's the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u136	I'm not gonna make another decision. I see you're putting the incentive on the wrong side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u137	Fine. I note that Mr Van der Linde has taken his seat again. Mrs. Schouten had already started interrupting. First, Mrs Schouten, then Mr Van der Linde and then Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u138	What a just President we have!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u139	That could just change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u140	I'm all over my props. I have another question about sustainability, about the amendment. The Minister is well aware that if the burden is reduced on the one hand, they may be increased on the other. Then you just come under the line again under zero. I'd like to explain what the idea is. It is, of course, a question of very often going with the stick towards the corporations. I thought, "Let's take the root now." We have a huge challenge in terms of sustainability. Around 4.5 petajoules per year must be achieved if we are to meet the objectives of the energy agreement. That is a huge task and we are not going to achieve it at the moment. My question is then twofold. Should we not consider whether we can introduce measures to increase the pressure on corporations, but also measures to attract them more? Then 100 million is not such a large amount, but at least an incentive to take that step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u141	I will be coming to the Chamber shortly with a report on the progress of the agreements on the average label B for corporations. I just indicated that I know it's still quite a challenge, but then I can show you exactly how far we are. Mrs Schouten is right, of course, that you must be able to handle both the root and the stick. When it comes to those energy-neutral homes, the zero-on-the-meter houses, I do not hear from the world of initiators the demand for subsidies. They have asked: give us that energy performance compensation. Even if you wanted to use a root, I am not convinced that it should go to this very purpose. Then you could also consider focusing on the label B, if that is not achieved or too slowly. Maybe this can achieve even greater environmental impact than when you want to reach zero on the meter in a smaller group. Also along that route I would say: don't do it now. The coverage is technically correct; I agree with Mrs Schouten. It is a political decision of your own whether you want to increase burdens in this way. I expect to have the numbers by the end of this month. Then it is clear how far we are in making the rental sector more sustainable. Let us then consider whether additional measures are needed and, if so, what we should focus on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u142	In line with the energy performance compensation, the following. By the initiators it has been said that the whole thing collapses at the time gas is also eligible for an EPV. The Minister has still not clarified whether or not this is taken into account. That was a question from me, too. Does he recognise that the initiative of Accelerating is at stake if gas is included? Does he agree that this will not be the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u143	I have answered questions from Mr De Vries on the same subject today, but I will gladly do it again orally. As a result of the arrangement I had announced myself, I had a discussion with both the initiators of the Accelerator and representatives of housing corporations. I have noticed that there are a lot of different opinions. There are very enthusiastic people involved in the rapids, for which I appreciate very much. We also support them, through legislation and also a little bit financial. There is also an important group in corporation country that says: "This is going too fast for us. We would like to invest in sustainability, but in a different way. We prefer to gradually make label steps." Moreover, I remember Mr De Vries asking me once: can you also work with the energy performance compensation on gradual labelling steps? On the contrary, we find it very uncomfortable if we are given one zero-to-one technique, because that does not help us in a step-by-step approach. I said at the time in the Chamber when the law on energy performance compensation was being examined on a question from Mr Koolmees that it cannot be that the law promotes only one technique. You'll smother all the innovation. I'm going to talk to housing corporations and the Housing Union about this issue at the beginning of November. So I haven't made the final decision yet. However, I have more interests to consider than those of the participants in the Accelerator, no matter how much I appreciate their initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u144	We like to hear what comes out there in November. However, at a time when we are working to free all homes from gas, it seems to me that it is incredibly contradictory to include gas in the energy performance compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u145	Okay. I assume that the Minister has no other answer to this than the answer he has already given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u146	Well, I can confirm that I will come to the Chamber after the meeting in December. But an important consideration for me will be the question of what is, on balance, the most effective way of achieving the environmental objectives. If, in fact, a very large proportion of the people who have to work with this say that they do not want it in this way, then we do not achieve the objective that Mrs Schouten has in mind either. So this is an important topic at the table. I'll take the room with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u147	Yeah, that's what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u148	I'll be back at the construction rigs. I'm looking the minister in the eye. He says, of course, it must be transparent and it must be cost-effective. I understand that, but of course that does not explain the difference of hundreds of percent per municipality. Nothing is more difficult than charging costs. The Minister knows that, too. If the Minister is in agreement with the VNG, will he also talk about these differences? How can these differences be largely eliminated, or at least reduced? And can he talk about what the road down with those construction lashes looks like? It would be very nice if he would send another letter about this, preferably before the elections. He probably knows what is in the VVD's election programme at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u149	I have promised that I will discuss this issue specifically with the VNG. I also told the Chamber that I was in a hurry to treat the Quality Assurance Bill properly. The implementation process must be followed carefully, so that will take some time, but it must be done with proper legal treatment. In that context, therefore, I will also be speaking with the UNG in the near future. So I'd be happy to send that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u150	I also asked a question about the Rent Committee. That question has been answered in writing, but I would also like to address it orally. I think it is important to have a dispute committee where tenants can get into trouble. Can the Minister promise that the cuts will not be made at least as long as the talks are going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u151	It's a cut in government spending, but that Rent Commission just keeps working. Indeed, a larger contribution is requested to landlords in particular. I can immediately promise Mr Bashir that I will not do so simply because this calls for a change in the law. It is now in preparation and laws are always dealt with in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u152	I get that. But the Rent Commission is important. Of course, the Rent Commission will continue to exist if it is cut back. However, we want an independent rental committee. This independence must be well guaranteed. Then it is important that the Empire also pays along. My question, therefore, is whether the Minister is prepared to take that austerity off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u153	The answer to that is no. I'll send a bill to the Chamber. Mr Bashir says: 'The Empire pays with it'. I always find that rather abstract. The Empire has no money, but only debts. It is always the taxpayers who pay along, and I want to spare them as much as possible. At the heart of the proposal is the fact that landlords are going to bear a larger share of the burden than taxpayers. I actually expected Mr Bashir to find this a rather sympathetic idea. I'm just suggesting that we take a good look at that bill by the time it's here in the Chamber. I suggest we judge it on his merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u154	The Minister will begin the final part of his response in the first term. If I do, it's about the state services. I invite him to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u155	Politically, much more attention is paid to the "living" part of my portfolio. I understand that very well, because it affects voters in general much more. If I'm a flyer or in a room in the country, I'm also called on to live more often than on the state service, but that doesn't detract from the enormous importance of a well-functioning state service. There are very interesting overviews that show that the level of people's satisfaction in a country is very closely linked to the quality of the administration: are officials reliable and not corrupt and do they provide a good service? I would therefore like to begin by complimenting the officials of our state service. We have asked a lot of them in recent years. There's been a lot of cuts and a lot of reorganisation. People have had to move and have been given other functions. All these people have done their work for us with great commitment. Among the major challenges we faced, were the challenges related to ICT. The Chamber conducted a parliamentary inquiry led by Mr Elias. One of the results was the creation of the ICT Test Office, the BIT. This has now produced a large number of reports which Mr Van Vliet seems to have studied with attention. Yeah, I do. These reports indicate that a lot of things are going well, but it is wise that we should look at these major investments again in this way. Mr Van der Linde asked me if we are sufficiently capable of recruiting ICT workers. That is also one of the recommendations of the Elias Committee: do not be so dependent on external partners. We are making great progress. We also have a special ICT training program. I've had the opportunity to address the first batch the other day. We've been able to recruit 40 people for that. It's not an easy market. Mr Van der Linden also pointed out this. However, in the discussions with those trainees, I also noticed that a lot of people are motivated by the fact that you work for the public sector and find one of the biggest and most complicated challenges in the field of ICT. Mr Koolmees asked whether we could make efficiency improvements more systematic. That always appeals to me, of course. I am sure Mr Koolmees will forgive me for saying that we have taken really great steps. Not so long ago, there was a Ministry of Housing and Spatial Planning. We said in the previous cabinet in 2010 that this could also go very well together with "Traffic and Water State and Home Affairs" back then. When I see what a huge job has been done by my people of Wonen and that combined with a reorganisation, I find that impressive. You can also see that integration with Home Affairs is going well and that Mr Plasterk has succeeded in bringing together a number of departments whose work is interrelated. In this context, I would like to draw attention to what is happening around cities and neighbourhood policies and the shrinking areas. There are living and domestic government really very close to each other. Then you also notice that you can make such a move in your own house. Mr Koolmees asked whether this could not be applied in a structural manner. He referred to the examples of a number of other countries. At the moment, as Mr Koolmees is undoubtedly aware, the Central Planning Office is working with a reference system to measure productivity growth. We hold that reference system against the light again to see if it reflects reality properly. The results should be known in spring 2017. I am thinking in great detail of the examples given by Mr Koolmees. He mentioned, among other things, the experiences in Denmark and New Zealand. As soon as we report to the Chamber on the weighting of the reference system, I would suggest to him that we also discuss the experiences in a number of countries which can provide good examples. I can send that to the Chamber together in the spring. This could coincide with the discussions on a new coalition agreement. That can then be used. I see Mr Koolmees nodding. Mr De Vries has once again drawn attention to the position of the shrinking regions and the way in which we deal with the state service there and put forward his motion calling for employment in shrinking regions to be reduced in proportion to the rest of the country. I have reported to the Chamber a number of times over the past year, and I have watched very closely the De Vries motion. Of course there's still surgery. I have already said in the Chamber that we will return to an interim state of affairs in the course of 2017. Mr De Vries specifically asked about the reorganisation at the Tax Office. I will, of course, also take the steps that are still being taken there in the coming period into account in the interim report and also in the context of the motion asking for the shrinkage areas to be kept as safe as possible. Mr Van der Linde asked how far we are with the strategic personnel policy agenda and the intention to link rewards to the functioning of employees. That strategic human resources policy is currently being implemented by me and the unions. I think it is important that where we sit around with the unions very much about working conditions and pensions, often it is tough negotiations on the wallet......................................................................................................................................................................................... I think it is very important that people are sufficiently mobile and not, at the time of such reorganisation, discover that they have been doing the same work for 15 years. They do that with great pleasure, but that has made them inflexible. I'm having that conversation with the unions right now. This autumn we are also organising meetings in the country to ask employees about their ideas about this strategic personnel policy. I therefore hope, also in the context of the new collective agreement that I have to conclude again, that we can take steps. Finally, Mr Krol asked for his motion on the renovation of the Binnenhof. He asked to look in front of the building Hotel at the option of demolition and new construction. In the debate I indicated that this is very complicated because this building has a jugendstil façade and is a municipal monument. I also said that I was concerned about the preservation of the façade and did not know if the municipality would give permission at all. The motion has been passed, so I have sent a letter to the municipality asking if the municipality sees room for such an option of demolition and new construction. I have not yet received an answer from the municipality, but as soon as I have that answer, I will share it with the Chamber. With this, I hope to have answered the questions about the state service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u156	We'll see. I'm seeing a couple of things coming up in the Chamber towards the interrupting microphone. I think we will first give the floor to Mrs Voortman and then to Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u157	The Minister had already replied in writing to my question as to what he is going to do to make his own UN-proof policy. I am referring to the UN Convention for People with Disabilities. I found that answer rather disappointing. The Minister said: I await the proposal that my colleague from VWS comes up with. However, the Minister can do things already. For example, he can look at the state real estate situation and he could already come up with proposals. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u158	The demands on public buildings are already stricter than on other buildings. It is not entirely clear to me what should happen on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u159	Let me take as an example the Ministry of the Interior or Security and Justice. I happened to be there last week. Then you see different things that are at odds with the UN Convention. The revolving doors at the beginning are too narrow. Someone with a wheelchair won't come in. I'm not sure where the Minister for Housing and National Service is, but where the rulers of Justice are, there's a hand identification tool that someone in a wheelchair can't reach. These are all obstacles that prevent you from getting in on your own, that you need support for everything. That is, however you turn it or turn it, contrary to the UN Convention. These are things that this minister should say: I am going to fix them immediately, and I do not have to wait for my colleague from VWS to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u160	I don't recognize the image. I come into that building every day and fortunately I also have visitors with a disability, also with a wheelchair. In this example, I do not immediately have on the retina what should happen extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u161	The minister just talked about the external hiring. This was mainly about ICT, but there is also, of course, external hiring in other areas. In view of the developments in the Tax Administration, I would like to ask the Minister a little more about this. The integrity rules have changed. In 2015, there was one that we discussed in general consultation and a change was applied in 2016 under ministerial regulation. This change means that people who have been employed by the Empire and leave there, whether or not with a dismissal fee, could be hired back to the State Service. What was the Minister's intention to change that arrangement? Can he say whether that arrangement has ever been made known to the Chamber in any way? Has the amendment, recently published in the Official Journal last week, or perhaps even before publication, led to officials who, after their resignation, were commissioned by the Empire? Has the Minister, in view of his coordinating responsibility in the field of employership, been involved in the dismissal procedure or the scheme applicable to the Tax Administration? Has he consulted other ministries, such as the Ministry of Finance, on such arrangements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u162	That's a lot of questions. Your third question was even divided into two questions. I think we should help the Minister with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u163	This is indeed a huge series.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u164	Do you remember the first one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u165	Mr Ronnes began by asking why the scheme had changed and whether it had been published. That scheme has just been published. That is how Mr Ronnes knows the arrangement, I suppose. The change was necessary because the old revolving door control was no longer appropriate, because a general ban on ever doing work for the Empire would severely limit people. In the private sector, there has also been some discussion about terms of competition. It was also said at the time that this was unreasonable. That's the way it was. If someone leaves the prison system and then wants to offer his services in a completely different part, then you should not make that completely impossible. But of course we do not want people to be able to make a profit in an undesirable way. That is why, at the same time, we have considerably tightened the integrity rules for them. Mr Ronnes has also asked a number of questions about the concrete case of the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u166	He asked if you had anything to do with this mess with the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u167	He asked me if we were involved. In my view, the State Secretary replied that the Tax Administration carried out that scheme within the general framework that it had, at least as much as possible, but that it...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u168	I would also point out to Mr Ronnes that this afternoon...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u169	It was debated for five hours this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u170	I was going to say that, but thank you, Mr Van Vliet. This afternoon, of course, there has been a long and extensive discussion. You may ask whether this Minister had anything to do with it, Mr Ronnes, but that is clearly not the case. Was there a question left to the Minister or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u171	I think the meeting with the Secretary of State is continuing. I therefore think it is logical that the President is right to ask these questions in that regard. I really need to dig now. I'm being approached about this now. I'm gonna have to figure out some of it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u172	I ask you to keep it a little clean and to keep the cottage by the tree and so on, Mr Ronnes. That's not unusual in your party, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u173	It is a matter of external hiring and it is a matter of government regulation. So I think it's only logical that we discuss this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u174	The political responsibility lies clearly with the Secretary of State. The debate has lasted a long time this afternoon, so I will not allow those questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u175	Then let me summarize the questions about the Tax Administration in one question to the Minister. Can he reply in writing to the question whether he was involved and whether he had had any consultation with the Minister of Finance in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u176	I would suggest that the Minister pass that question on if necessary, because I understand that there will be another letter from the Secretary of State. If necessary, an answer can follow. We are not going to repeat the debate here, nor are we going to deepen the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u177	I was also concerned about this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u178	You heard what I said about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u179	We are now talking about the budget for Housing and National Service. Last Monday, the Minister published a decision in the Staatscourant, which states, among other things, that the revolving door system is changing. When I saw the newspaper in front of me, I almost fell off my chair. Later in the week we also had the debate with the Secretary of State for Finance. That was this morning. The question is quite simple: what was the background to the Minister's decision? This Minister has signed that decision. So we should know what that is like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u180	I have just given that answer to Mr Ronnes. The old revolving door decision was so one-dimensional that it did not do justice to the position of people who once worked at the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u181	This answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u182	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I will just give you the floor after the Minister has finished his reply, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u183	This was the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u184	Mr Ronnes also asked about the involvement of other directors in that decision. The Minister has just said what he said, but I would also like to know, for example, whether the Secretary of State for Finance has called for this decision to be published.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u185	This is another question. Mr Bashir did not just tell me that, but the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u186	Then I'd like to know a little more. You can't just make a decision, can you? I assume that this is based on documentation and considerations. I would like to know what the political considerations were in the decision taken and published by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u187	Mr Ronnes also asked that question, and I have just answered it. I said that the old revolving door control was too one-dimensional. That was the political balance behind it. That is also an operational consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u188	No, Mr Bashir, we're not going through with this. We've tried it in five different ways. This is the answer you are getting, and you will have to deal with it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u189	This is really a political point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u190	I understand, and I have allowed you to raise that point in the fourth part of your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u191	I didn't get an answer to my question at all. I would like to have a basis for the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u192	You may have that feeling, but you will not get another answer; that may be clear now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u193	My group would like to clarify the background to the decision on the rotating door system. I am not asking the Minister to answer now, because that would be too extensive, I understand, but I am asking if he is prepared to send a letter in the short term to defend that decision, so that the Chamber might perhaps come back to it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u194	I'm giving the Minister a chance to say the same thing again, presumably.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u195	I've already indicated that the trade-off was that the old revolving door control wasn't working properly. Again, there is already a debate planned on the situation at the Tax Office. That seems to me to be the place to ask that question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u196	I would ask for a slightly more comprehensive answer than that the scheme did not meet. I'd like to know why that arrangement didn't work out. I assume that many groups have questions about this, including timing. It seems to me appropriate that we in the Chamber should be able to ask for information on the Minister's considerations in order to take this decision. It seems to me that I am entitled to that information, so that I can then decide for myself whether we will come back to it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u197	I gave you that information. I don't hear any specific questions, to be honest. I reply neatly that the old rotating door control was too one-dimensional and actually failed people. I do not hear a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u198	Mr Van der Linde should now have the floor, but he will pass it on to Mr Koolmees. He will explain it, because he was also at that debate this afternoon, I assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u199	I was not in that debate, but I do understand the background to Mr Madlener's and Mr Bashir's questions. The minister says the arrangement is too one-dimensional. I can imagine. Can he give us a little more arguments or environment that he encounters in practice and why this adjustment was necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u200	Now I have to dig back into my memory, because this adjustment happened a long time ago. It played at the same time as the discussion on the private-market clause. It was also widely said that you cannot restrict people in their future possibilities. At the same time, we found that the underlying reason for the measure of the revolving door construction was that you do not want people to receive an exit premium and then start doing more or less the same work very shortly afterwards. We have sought and established safeguards for this, on the one hand in the procurement rules and on the other hand in the integrity regime that has just been announced. That was the whole package: the old rules were too rigid, but you do want a guarantee and that required those additional integrity rules. As a result, we now have an arrangement with more customization than that old, one-dimensional rotating door control. That arrangement was published in the Official Journal. There's nothing secret about that, but there's no whole world behind it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u201	It is about the image of officials leaving with a departure scheme, which is occasionally generous. Afterwards they can be hired again as zzp'er to do the same work. Do I understand from the answer that this is not really the intention and that there are safeguards to prevent it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u202	There are safeguards to prevent unjustified constructions, but it's not like you can never work as a zzp'er again. I would not know Mr Koolmees like that either. On the contrary, there are safeguards to prevent it from being made impossible to work and to prevent you from getting money first and then almost doing your own work at a higher hourly rate, as has been the case in the past. We don't want that construction anymore. That's what we've scorched up in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u203	I think we have sufficiently discussed the overlap between the State and the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u204	My question is a little clearer. I asked about the ICT expertise. The minister's gonna go in on trainees. That is commendable, but it was precisely those heavy project leaders that we were concerned with. The Elias Committee has said that these are difficult to get. Those are the people who have to face the two-toners with a thick BMW of the ICT companies, who have to put real weight on the scale and who also need to be heavily scaled. Are we in order now? That question can also be answered in the context of the I strategy, as Mrs De Caluwe said, in order to make it easy for the Minister, but I am proposing it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u205	In any case, the share of people in their own ICT services is growing. It's not quite in order yet. In response to the report by the Elias Committee, I have also outlined that a number of parts of it really are a journey of a number of years. Building expertise and redecorating your financial reporting are not things you'll have done within a year. So I have no reason to say it's not gonna work. I don't have any reason to say I'm all done. I believe that the Chamber has just received a letter from me in which I report on the progress made in implementing the recommendations of the Elias Committee. I assume that the Chamber will either act on this issue or raise questions about it. I believe that there has also been a report on the occupation section.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u206	I have a little question to ask you about that. Doesn't that lead to financial problems? I mean, is there enough budgetary space to take on those top players?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u207	Mr Van der Linde is undoubtedly referring to the fact that people in the market for the same work can often be paid better than in the Empire. We're gonna run into that. On the other hand, many people really think the Empire is a challenging environment. I mentioned it just now: there is a huge multitude of complex ICT statements. The fact that many people rightly find it an honor to work for the public cause is also an incentive. So it's not easy. Moreover, it is not easy for any employer to get ICTs. Again: it is certainly not so that we do not manage to recruit people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u208	With that tribute to the public case, the answer came to an end in the first term from the government. I would like to invite Mr Bashir. He is the first to speak in the second term. Before I do so, I would like to inform you that at the very beginning of the reply in the first term, the Minister felt that he should quote Churchill who was looking for an economist with one hand. We only know him as someone who knows his classics. However, Mr Koolmees and I looked at each other and thought: that is not quite right. Of course, we have the advantage of Wikipedia. Turns out it was American President Harry Truman who said that. What the story doesn't mention is whether or not that economist was found. Let's just say it was an economist of the invisible hand. From Adam Smith to Farshad Bashir, it's a very small step. I therefore invite Mr Bashir to begin his second term. You have four minutes to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u209	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I am still dissatisfied with the answer on the decision on the state services and thezzp'ers who can get to work faster in the ministries. I would like to know more about this. If the Minister is not prepared to do so, it might be an option to invite the Minister for Housing and National Service to follow up the general discussion on the Tax Administration. Of course, that is not necessary if he sends the letter and informs the Chamber in detail about the considerations in his decision. I have a number of motions. The first one is about the Rent Commission. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to half the financial contribution to the Rent Commission in two years;]] [[noting that the Housing Union, Aedes, the Association of Institutional Investors (IVBN) and Real Estate Interest consider the financing of the Rent Committee to be a public task;]] [[whereas an independent Disputes Commission is of great importance and discussions with Aedes on its implementation are still ongoing;]] [[calls on the Government not to make any cuts to the Rent Committee as long as the discussions on a more efficient working method of the Rent Committee are still ongoing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u210	The rents have risen tremendously. It's time for rent reduction. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the introduction of the landlord's tax has led to an enormous increase in rental prices;]] [[Calls on the Government to take a first step towards rent reductions by reducing corporate housing rentals, to finance this by reducing the landlord's tax by 500 million and to cover this by increasing the second share of corporation tax by 1% (Bashir amendment to the 2017 Tax Plan);]] [[Invites the Government to come forward with a letter of amendment when amending the Housing Market Act 2014 II following the assessment of the landlord's tax in order to legally allow this rent reduction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u211	I thought the SP also went for a rent reduction of 1 billion, to cover from the landlord's tax. I now hear Mr Bashir talking about 500 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u212	In the election programme presented today, the SP announced a rent reduction of EUR 1 billion. That is what we are happy to present to the electorate. Previously, we have often made proposals to abolish the landlord's tax. The Chamber has often voted on this, but unfortunately rejected our proposals. This time we're doing less big. It's a first step in 2017. The next step is to give back the full billion. We want to achieve this by asking the voters. The MPs have voted enough times. They have always rejected it, so now the voter has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u213	The SP thinks that a slightly smaller rent reduction of 2% will be possible in the Chamber. That's what he's hoping for. I regret that, because the PVV supports the SP in this matter to release just one billion for rent reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u214	The SP also wants to reduce by a billion. That is what we proposed today in our election programme. We are happy to present this to the electorate. We have not proposed otherwise before, but that proposal has been rejected. We thought we would take a first step this time. It will be a rent reduction of €200. Remember, it's a break with the past. Now the rents just go up and up. It's the first time we've done things differently. Then I go into the loan to value, the maximum allowed loan in relation to the value of the property. This is currently 102%. Next year it will fall to 101% and in 2018 it will be 100%. That's actually unnecessary. I listened to the Minister's arguments. I don't quite follow. When people are obliged to pay off, the debt falls in proportion to the value of the house itself. If you lower the LTV to 100%, make sure that starters only stay in a rental house for longer. The flow will not continue. In fact, there won't be any flow. I shall therefore table the next motion together with Mr Van Vliet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the maximum allowed loan in relation to the value of the home (LTV) is falling from now 102% to 101% in 2017;]] [[Whereas more and more people earn too much for a social housing but have too little money for a house of sale;]] [[whereas the LTV is falling by itself due to the need to repay mortgages in 30 years;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Temporary Arrangement mortgage credit that the LTV for 2017 is maintained at 102%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir and Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u215	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and his staff for their reply. I'm moving into the owner of a property that was on our budget on Tuesday night after work. That's a gentleman who's probably had a hard time for five years. His job was on the road, his car needed a replacement and his house was worth half a ton less than the mortgage he had made in 2007. Meanwhile, he's got a new job, and so's his girlfriend. They bought another used car and their house is "in the money" again. However, they still pay 5% interest on their mortgage and they actually want to move to Rotterdam because they got their new job in logistics there. What has this gentleman heard on Tuesday? The SP has told him that he should actually hire socially, because with the SP socialization becomes so cheap that everyone wants to go back on the waiting list. He was also a bit confused, because the SP wants to keep more mortgage interest relief, 102%, deductible at the same time. The gentleman asked his girlfriend: did Mr Bashir get a job at Building Netherlands? The PVV explained to this gentleman that he should not want to move at all, because all the houses are taken by 43.000 people with a residence permit. He was indeed worried about that, but he didn't hear what the PVV was going to do about it. He only heard the PVV talk about putting a fence around the Netherlands, but he knew one thing, namely that he would lose his job in logistics immediately. The hardest story came from the CDA. That nice CDA gentleman first gave a very unpleasant story about the housing policy of the past few years and then came up with all kinds of ideas that the government has been working on for a long time. In fact, some of those ideas had been asked by the CDA a few years before. That gentleman also got stuck with the question whether the CDA means seriously that you have to save 20% before you can buy your own house. The answer to that question was not given to that gentleman when he read the CDA's election programme on Wednesday morning: less borrowing, more own resources for you to tap in, fiscally stimulating building savings and at the same time a revolving fund for start-ups. The gentleman turned to his girlfriend and said: a revolver fund for loans is what we call a bank, isn't it? Why can't I just go to the bank for a mortgage? Is fiscal incentives to save anything other than a ton of grant exemption? And why does it all have to be different? Or is it actually the same and is it just a little different written down? The VVD wants peace and security. For a mortgage, you just have to be able to go to a bank. Banks must also have the space to offer you a suitable mortgage. That mortgage should also be accessible to young families with children. So no silly ideas about building savings where you have to save 20% first. You just need to be sure you can buy a house if your income allows it. The VVD stands for that certainty. Since the Minister went into senior mortgages and challenged us to come up with concrete examples, I have here the last e-mail about this, from last Monday, from Mr Ahlrichs from Nijmegen. I ask the messenger to give this e-mail to the minister so that he can put his teeth in it immediately. Of course, I have sympathy for the SP's attempt to overtake us on the right with the mortgage standard. I'm not going along with that. This afternoon I was looking forward to the SP's election program, but I only read about mortgages with a buying house in Amsterdam or Utrecht. 102% loan to value I didn't come across, let alone a cover for that. So what remains is a trick to sow division between the government parties. The SP can try that, but 2% deductibility is not, of course, going to break into a government agreement. I would like to keep in mind Mr Bashir's support in the event that President Knot of the Netherlands Bank comes up again with an 80% loan standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u216	It's genuinely not a political stunt. It's something I just see around me. I see people who have to save much longer before they can buy a house. I also don't understand why people should be obliged to redeem themselves. If people have bought a house, they'll be below 100% within a few years. After ten years, they're under 80%. In 30 years, their entire mortgage has been repaid. So it's well arranged. The question is whether you should let people rent longer while they have the chance to buy. We just need to get the flow going. This is a handout without political intent. It's just smart. I would like to bring the VVD Group with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u217	At the end of those four years we are still going to agree on this flow! I've expressed my concerns on several occasions about mortgage lending. It wasn't so much about that loan to value. For me, it's much more in the customization that banks can't deliver. It's in the elderly who need a little money to set up a bathroom on the ground floor. It's about people who want to buy a houseboat. So it is not so much the loan standards, but the obstacles and the temporary mortgage credit scheme. We have therefore tabled a number of motions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u218	The VVD is very satisfied with the way things are going. She gave a lot of compliments to the Minister. The LTV is now 102%. We are not saying that it should be increased to 106%, as it used to be. No, let's keep him at 102% for next year. Later we may decide to go further down. The motion therefore calls for him to be kept at 102% for next year. If it goes well now, why wouldn't it go well next year if we kept it at 102%?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u219	Because we agreed to 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u220	You are now pursuing your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u221	I'm almost there. There will be elections in March. The VVD will soon be on the doorstep of the gentleman and the lady I was just talking about, asking for their support for the coming years, just to be sure about their home, their car, their job. We're counting on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u222	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to reassure Mr Van der Linde: the CDA does not intend to reduce the LTV to 90 or 80%. I hope that's what reassured him. For the sake of time, I'll start my motions right away. First of all, my motion on the medium-cost rent action plan. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is a serious shortage of medium-term housing and that investors have so far made too few concrete investments;]] [[Whereas the Government intends to encourage the construction of medium-cost rentals, for example through cooperation tables on the development of the mid-segment;]] [[calls on the government, in addition to the plans to hold the cooperation tables, to draw up a concrete action plan together with municipalities, stakeholders, business, banks and pension funds with the aim of achieving sufficiently medium-term rental homes in the foreseeable future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ronnes, Mr Schouten and Mr Koolmies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u223	Now my motion on Nibud standards. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas strict application of standards drawn up by the National Institute for Budget Information (Nibud) for mortgage lending may lead to unreasonable situations;]] [[Whereas research carried out by ABF Research shows that the Nibud standards are being applied unnecessarily strictly and thus hinder mortgage lending to a large group of potential house buyers;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with Nibud and the Financial Markets Authority (AFM), to seek an update of the Nibud standards and their application by mortgage providers, at least taking into account income prospects and energy costs without increasing payment risks irresponsibly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u224	Now my motion on the role of corporations in regional development. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas regional housing markets have recently been established and there are signs that corporations have put pressure on municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an external expert report on the way in which regional development has been established, on the role played by corporations and on the importance of housing seekers and tenants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u225	My fourth motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the increased influx of asylum seekers is currently leading to a multiple of so-called 'neighbourly' travellers;]] [[Whereas this has a significant impact on housing problems in municipalities and displacement on the list of people seeking housing;]] [[calls on the government to give a concrete picture of the extent of the housing problems caused by travellers and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u226	I have one more motion and it's about the state service. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that an updated version of the Code of Conduct for Integrity Rijk 2016 was published in the Official Journal on 10 October 2016;]] [[Whereas the criterion that public officials cannot be hired for a period of two years after termination of employment has expired;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber every two months of the nature and extent of the hiring of former employees of the Empire,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u227	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his oral and written reply. This cabinet of PvdA and VVD has done groundbreaking work. We're back from the crisis, including the housing market. This cabinet has dared to tackle the mortgage interest rate deduction, has reduced the risks for buyers, put corporations back into their core business, ensure that corporations have taken a critical look at their efficiency and ensure that risky matters have to be separated. A new House Act has been passed, which has been adopted by a very large majority. It is a law with which municipalities and tenants have gained much more influence and which enables their own initiative of residents. Of course there have been compromises and of course that was sometimes difficult, because the VVD has a very different view on the housing market than the PvdA. It helped that other parties have also taken co-responsibility. If you look at the VVD's election program, you realize that the PvdA has actually delivered a top performance, because everything in it about rents we have been able to stop during this period. The PvdA has ensured that the lowest incomes have been spared, that the rent surcharge has been increased by 570 million, that the rents with the social rental agreement go back to inflation and that pensioners and households with four or more persons with higher incomes no longer receive an additional rent increase. We have ensured that the allocation policy takes into account what a household can pay to the maximum according to the Nibud standards including rent surcharge. We have made sure that incentives are put in place to build affordable housing on a large scale. We have argued that it is unreasonable for your rent to go up if you earn more, but not down if your income drops. We have raised the issue that the landlord must inform the tenant of the number of points of the property and the possibility to challenge it at the Rent Committee at the time of the conclusion of the rental contract. If I go any further, I will go over my speaking time. What didn't work out is to get the new building back on track right from 2014, when we came out of the crisis. Now it is clear that the municipalities do not get enough production of the land independently and quickly and some municipalities even have the policy to stop the construction of social housing, there is a task for the minister. I put it in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister is responsible for sufficient size, quality and differentiation of the housing stock;]] [[Whereas the need for new housing is very low and there are long waiting periods for social housing and housing prices are rising rapidly in many parts of the country;]] [[Whereas the number of building permits issued is falling and municipalities have insufficient planning capacity to enable sufficient housing to be produced;]] [[Whereas it is far from possible for all municipalities to allow housing to be built that is most needed in the housing stock, such as low-rent housing and middle-rent housing;]] [[Calls on the Government to include the periodic housing needs estimates at regional level and to impose an annual reporting obligation on housing market regions containing data on planned building production by segment and the extent to which they intend to meet the calculated regional housing needs in those segments;]] [[calls on the Government to create a power enabling municipalities to provide a compelling indication of construction in the event of major social housing shortages and housing with middle rents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u228	I started my speech in the first term with the Netherlands in Balance sheet, the plan of the shrinking regions for a change of course. The Labour Party really does not agree with ending the shrinkage policy by 2020. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the shrinking regions have made a joint plan, entitled the Netherlands in Balance sheet, to give their areas a long-term economic boost;]] [[noting that the government states that after 2019 the shrinking regions can be considered to address the problem of shrinkage on their own;]] [[considers that the shrinking areas should not be left to their own devices;]] [[also considers that, in line with the opinions of the House Awards Committee, it is necessary to build on the commitment, shared responsibility and solidarity between cities that grow and preserve the vitality of the areas on the borders of our country;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt an integrated approach to growth and shrinkage and, in this context, to develop the plans from the Netherlands in Balance, together with the shrinking regions, into a plan for strengthening the structure of these regions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries and Mr Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u229	I would like to thank the Minister for his positive response to my question on the initiative paper by my colleagues Leenders and Jacobi on more green and water in the city. I would also like to thank the Minister for the statement that there is now an effort to maintain mandatory energy savings in the construction of utility buildings. I do have a question about the idea of Building the Netherlands, FME and UNITO-VNI to create a database that helps to map all mandatory controls on the safety, health and energy efficiency of buildings. I would ask the Minister to discuss this. I found his written response very economical. The final motion concerns the involvement of residents in shrinkage problems. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the National Partnership Active residents are severely reduced in terms of their subsidy, with the aim of reducing their dependence on state subsidies;]] [[Whereas the LSA supports people in new forms of cooperation to continue to provide collective services, an important form of organisation for the future;]] [[whereas it is unrealistic for the LSA to find sufficient alternative funding next year, but the progress of its work is indispensable;]] [[calls on the Government to provide funding for the LSA of at least €375,000 for 2017, from the budgets of the ministries with which the work of the LSA is interrelated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u230	I'm having a little trouble with my voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u231	I hear it and a little bit with your breath. Mrs Schouten is going to give you a chance to catch your breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u232	I'd like to make it a little more complete before the historiography. Mr De Vries has indicated that he has protected the VVD from carrying out all the plans contained in the electoral programme at the time. But who needed the PvdA to stop the rent from rising so fast, to stop the landlord's tax from getting so high and to introduce the rent-sum approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u233	I have perhaps spoken a little too quickly about the participation of other parties. That has helped to agree with the VVD as well. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u234	I didn't need any gratitude. It was more that I thought: the VVD might need tightening, but the PvdA certainly needed tightening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u235	Okay. It worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u236	Mr Madlener, you have one minute. You heard your predecessor. I would say: choose clarity!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u237	Mr. Chairman. I'm going very quickly, but hopefully still understandable, to read out four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the rent increases of this cabinet have greatly affected the purchasing power of tenants;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the housing corporations and landlords, to reduce (non-liberalised) rents by 5% by 1 July 2017, to reduce the landlord's tax by EUR 1 billion and to send a detailed proposal to the Chamber for this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Madlener and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u238	For coverage, please refer to our election programme. This should preferably come out of the immigration restrictions. Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas start-ups in the housing market are obliged to repay 100% of their mortgage, while households that already have a mortgage only have to pay 50%;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse this gap and also to require start-ups to pay 50% instead of 100%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many homeowners are unable to take advantage of the current low mortgage interest rate due to over-rigid attitudes on the part of mortgage providers;]] [[Whereas, in Belgium, the penalty in the event of transfers is legally limited to three months' interest;]] [[noting that many homeowners are subject to an extremely high penalty rate in the event of the transfer of the existing mortgage and that this makes it unnecessarily difficult to redeem the mortgage in the meantime;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the banks, to substantially reduce the fine for homeowners in the transfer of mortgages and to use some of the lower monthly charges for additional repayments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Madlener and Mr Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-18]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u239	And then the free construction plots that I have been advocating for years, also for the middle class. I just took a look. Two building lots are currently available in The Hague, for which there are probably long waiting lists and which have been sold for a long time. That offer is simply inadequate. With the next motion, I call again for an increased effort. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of free construction plots for private homes, especially in the Randstad area, is still poor;]] [[whereas many citizens dream of building their own homes and that the waiting lists for affordable lots are often very long;]] [[Whereas private clientship contributes to a better living environment, employment and the flow of housing;]] [[calls on the government, even more firmly, to increase the number of free lots for housing, both free-standing and driving homes, especially in the Randstad, and to take account of the affordability for middle income,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u240	I read the PVV election program. That's not a lot of work, because it's one A4's. I was done in a few minutes. Therefore, I conclude that the PVV does not want to lower the landlord's tax, that the PVV does not want to give it back completely to the tenants. Tenants will pay EUR 2 billion in the landlord's tax. We want to give that amount back in full. However, I note from the PVV election programme that this party wants to reduce other taxes, such as taxes for large companies and multinationals. Tenants are going to pay the bill of large companies at the PVV in a moment. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u241	We reduce the landlord's tax by 1 billion and return it directly to the tenants. That's a big cut in rent. I'm happy about that. In addition, we are going to reduce taxes, for example, car taxes. The driver is of course still the milk cow of this cabinet. Mr Bashir's party is not getting away with it either. So we are going to reduce taxes much more. But 5% rent cut is great, of course. I am also counting on the support of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u242	The PVV election programme states that tenants will receive 1 billion out of 2 billion of the landlord's tax. With us, they'll get everything back. With the help of that other billion, there will also be rentals. There's gonna be construction soon. So I understand that if it's up to the PVV, the tenants are still going to pay 1 billion in landlord tax? The priorities are apparently elsewhere in the PVV. They lie with large companies, multinationals and road taxes. Tenants are going to pay the road tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u243	Of course, we have an eye not only for citizens but also for businesses. As with the SP, it is not the case that we only burden these companies with everything, because those companies provide us with work. That's what we need in our country. But no, we lower the rents by 1 billion, just like the SP. That is what Mr Bashir has clearly said. The SP wants to use other billion to build social housing. We'd rather aim for the flow. The tenant who pays too much rent is as good with us as with the SP. We're the only ones who focus on flow. We do not want to build the whole of the Netherlands with social housing. We also prefer to take care of those free lots, so that people don't have to live their whole lives in a social rental house, but can also move on to a perhaps more beautiful home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u244	I give the floor to Mr Koolmees. He has three minutes to speak on behalf of the D66 Group for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u245	It's gonna work. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the clear answer in his first term. I've already paid my compliments on Tuesday. I'm not gonna keep doing that. I will deal with a number of points, first of all with the average rent. Mr Ronnes has tabled a motion on my behalf because I believe that meters should be made to drive construction. I am very curious to hear the Minister's opinion on that motion. I've prepared a motion on regionalization. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the large regional differences in the housing market, as also noted by Aedes and the NVM, are increasing;]] [[noting that people are currently falling between shore and ship, because they earn too much for a social housing unit, that there is too little offer of medium-priced rent and that they are not eligible for a merchant house due to low or too uncertain income;]] [[Whereas it is also in the social interest of workers, such as teachers and district agents, to be able to live in the place where they work;]] [[calls on the government to identify the possibilities of addressing these regional differences, for example through differentiation in the housing rating scheme, the rent allowance system or liberalisation limits, so that people can live where they work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koolmees and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u246	I had prepared a motion on productivity incentives, but I'm not going to file them because of the Minister's commitment. The CPB is already working on the reference system, which includes the examples from other countries. Thank you for that. I have two small comments to make. I've got a minute and a half left, so I've got plenty of time. As far as zero-to-de-meter houses are concerned, I would like to endorse Mrs Schouten's comments. I think we should have a great ambition in the Netherlands to make the built environment more sustainable, especially when it comes to new construction. If we are now going to create all kinds of'mouse holes' in this ambition, it seems to me that we are going in the wrong direction. I'm waiting for the minister to talk to the housing corporations. I do think it is important that I send this signal, because we will soon be talking about the 2016 National Energy Exploratory, which, of course, includes the built environment. I expect that we will have a heavy burden on that. My final point is this. I would like to ask the Minister if he can tell the Prime Minister that there are quite a few experts in this country who think that something should be done about the mortgage interest deduction. I have already mentioned the expert Klaas Knot, but I am also thinking of the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF and some professors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u247	I call Mrs Schouten from the Christian Union Group. I can offer her two minutes for the second term. I hope that's why she wants to do it. Because I'm not entitled to give her more. That is not as bad as Mr Madlener, who was just using too much time and has to take back the time of Mr Madlener, who will speak next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u248	Mr Madlener has a lot of friends in his group, I think. With us, you'll get into a fight if you go over it, but thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I will make two motions, but first I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment he has made to talk to the Nibud to see whether the mortgage standard can take account of the energy efficiency of the home, more than is currently the case. I await the results of that. The first motion concerns social welfare. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to minimise the obstacles to the transit and exit of social reception facilities;]] [[Whereas the income test to carry out appropriate allocation for people residing in facilities of reception facilities (the administrative declaration) is not properly applicable;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the administrative declaration for people in transit homes through social welfare institutions and to adapt the authorised institutions' housing in accordance with the Decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u249	As far as sustainability is concerned, I have mentioned the root of the amendment I will be tabling to the Tax Plan, but I also have a small stick for the corporations this time, to do a little more about sustainability. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the combined energy consumption of corporation houses currently amounts to 160 PJ per year;]] [[Considering that, in accordance with the objectives of the Energy Agreement, this should be reduced to 0 PJ by 2050;]] [[noting that many municipalities have a living vision;]] [[calls on the government to include the energy targets to be achieved (in PJ per year) in the housing vision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u250	Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for his efforts over all these years. I wish him a good future, no matter what.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u251	And we thank Mrs Schouten for her contribution in the second term. Mrs. Voortman is the next speaker. She has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u252	Mr. Chairman. Having heard the Minister's first term, I can confine myself to tabling one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities has been applicable in the Netherlands since 14 July 2016;]] [[Whereas this implies, inter alia, that the buildings of the State Service must be accessible independently to all people with disabilities;]] [[whereas this is not the case at present;]] [[Calls on the Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst, together with client organisations for people with disabilities in all ministerial buildings, to carry out an accessibility scan and, on the basis of this, to draw up a plan of approach to ensure that all ministerial buildings are accessible independently by 14 July 2017;]] [[also invites the Minister, together with client organisations, to make a plan of approach for the independent access of all state real estate and to forward this plan to the Chamber at the latest in the budget treatment Living and Rijksdienst 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u253	I'll leave it at that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u254	Okay, that's okay. Thank you. Mr Bishop had to leave the meeting earlier. Mr Krol waived a second-term contribution. I give the floor to Mr Öztürk. He has a minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u255	Mr President, that means that I must quickly read out my two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that in the coming years there may be a risk of overheating in the housing market, partly due to the lack of housing;]] [[Considers that the bubble in the housing market was an important reason for the financial crisis in 2008;]] [[calls on the government, to continue to anticipate a possible overheated housing market, for example through a scenario analysis with emergency measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2012, an average of 23.8% of net disposable income was spent by a tenant on net rental expenditure and that this has now increased to 26.7%;]] [[considers that it is essential that tenants know their rights, for example that they know that they can have the initial rental checked by the Rent Committee;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with relevant field parties, to increase awareness of the possibility of having the start-up hire in the free sector checked by the Rent Commission among tenants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk and Mr Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-25]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u256	Mr. Chairman. I do not expect to have problems in my group when I exceed the speaking time, but I will try to be brief. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the answer and for the policy in recent years. In my opinion, the housing market has rested and I believe that this is good for everyone involved. There are two points I would like to make. On the first point, we have already heard half a commitment, but I would like to table the next motion on that point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that the Rent Committee tries to work more efficiently in order to save costs;]] [[that high costs are incurred by dealing with disputes over the permitted or actual rental;]] [[Opinion:]] [[that prevention is better in this area than in subsequent resolution;]] [[that this problem is partly due to a possible difference in information and interpretation of the rental rules;]] [[that many procedures can thus be avoided if, in advance, there is clarity between tenant and landlord on which basis the rental price was established;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how it can be made possible to add a rental calculation form to lease contracts in order to avoid matters for the Rent Commission and to what extent this can also be made a condition for the granting of a rental payment in order to have maximum assurance that no more than the necessary rental payment is being paid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u257	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that the core task of the housing corporations is to ensure adequate supply of adequate and high-quality affordable housing;]] [[that the corporations themselves are responsible for the proper allocation of those homes and have a monopoly in them more or less;]] [[that corporations are given the means to carry out this task;]] [[Opinion:]] [[that the efficiency of the allocation is not good everywhere;]] [[that tenants should have as little additional burden as possible;]] [[the argument that a registration fee should be requested for tenants in order to establish that those prospective tenants actually have a rental question and thus do not create contaminated files with many non-demanding candidates;]] [[that this real need is also to be determined differently, for example by considering whether someone has actually responded to the offer,]] [[states that it is undesirable for housing corporations to apply for registration fees for prospective tenants at those corporations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst--28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u258	Mr. Chairman. I'm having a bit of a fight with the group chairman. He wanted to do this debate, but it has become the spokesperson living. It's not fair, because I'm also a spokesperson for taxes. I have a very hard life here. When I was chairman of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations, I had several contacts with this Minister for Housing and National Service. I look back on this afterwards with great pleasure and satisfaction, because they were fruitful contacts. I have heard him mention an apparachic in certain circles, but if you are as efficient as this minister, I also like to be called apparachic. My involvement with the Netherlands as a country of residence goes very far. I also have contact with the House Union, which represents 1.5 million rental households in the Netherlands. They have a very nice magazine Living Bondig. There are always very interesting people in there. Take a look at the front page. I do not know if it can be seen in the back of the room, but there the spokesperson of the Van Vliet Group sitting on the back of a motorbike can be seen. It's a very interesting article. I'd like to put two cases in a motion. This is, after all, a very specific matter of social housing. One is the transfer tax, and the other is one of my stickhorses, the Authority's housing corporations. I submit the motion on transfer tax because I do not think it is fair that there should be a tax burden on it if, in the context of a legal mechanism, in this case the division into housing market regions, real estate must be transferred, even if it is not at historical cost but at another real value. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as a result of the classification of the Netherlands in housing market regions, the transfer of immovable property, i.e. social housing, may be made by one authorised institution or housing corporation to another;]] [[Whereas the transfer tax involved is an obstacle to such transfers;]] [[Whereas the Minister says that a targeted exemption for this transfer of social housing between housing corporations resulting from housing market regions leads to discussions on prohibited State aid and that therefore corporations can only fall back on the possible exemption for transfers between anbi's, which the Minister, however, indicates that this exemption will not apply in practice;]] [[whereas the compulsory separation of activities in a social part and a commercial part, SGEIs versus non-DAEB, is designed precisely to avoid State aid discussions on the SGEI part;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways of achieving exemption from transfer tax in the case of transfers of social housing between authorised institutions as a result of the division into new housing market regions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u259	The second motion concerns the Authority's housing corporations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the social housing system is to the benefit of an independent integral supervisor, as recommended by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations and subsequently confirmed by parliament and government in the consideration of the new Housing Act;]] [[Whereas subsequently the Authority has been rigged up as housing corporations within the Inspection Environment and Transport;]] [[Whereas, in the case of questions concerning the independence of the Authority housing corporations, the Minister has given a verbatim undertaking on several occasions that the Director of the Authority housing corporations has direct access to the Minister and does not have to go to the Director ILT;]] [[noting that letters from the Authority housing corporations are signed by the ILT inspector-general and that this contradicts the Minister's earlier literal commitment and undermines the independent and strong appearance of the Authority housing corporations as a supervisor;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Authority's housing corporations are fully independent in their supervisory tasks and to return that independence to the signing of all outgoing documents of the Authority's housing corporations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVIII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u260	Mr. Chairman. A large number of motions have been tabled, so I'd like to start with a response straight away. To Mr Van der Linde, I would like to say that I will study the e-mail with my officials, because this is indeed a concrete example of the type I asked for. I also owe Mr Ronnes a favor. I imagine coming up with a total reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u261	Can I respond to that directly? Mr Van der Linde did send you that e-mail, but I don't know if he went around in the Chamber. Can we make sure that colleagues see this e-mail message as well? I can get the spread, but I'll have to get the e-mail delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u262	Then there's the motions. Mr Bashir asked me in the motion for a resolution on item No. 6 to make no cuts on the Rent Committee as long as the discussions on a more efficient working method of the Rent Committee are ongoing. That's an unnecessary motion. I told you, there's gonna be a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u263	The Minister has just said that, but the Minister has entered the cut in the budget that we are now discussing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u264	That is why I am also sending that bill, with the intention that this amount can be entered in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u265	The judgment "unnecessary" is not customary, by the way. I can imagine that there is another opinion to be given, but I would like to hear you say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u266	Then I dissuade the motion, because the Chamber can exercise its normal right. In Mr Bashir's motion to item No. 7 the government is invited to reduce the rents with a cover from an increase in corporate tax. A general rent reduction is very unfocused. Mrs. Schouten told me about one person, or household, from her circle of friends who lives crookedly. She could have a circle of friends of 500,000 people who all meet that criterion. That is not entirely the case, but that is the size of the group of people who live on a high income basis in a social housing unit. They would all receive an even lower rent through this scheme. Besides, I don't share the cover. So I must discourage this motion. In the motion-Bashir/Van Vliet to piece No. 8 is requested to include in the temporary mortgage credit scheme that the LTV limit for 2017 is maintained at 102%. I told you, I don't think that's desirable. This puts people in a vulnerable position, especially people in those parts of the Netherlands where the housing market is not as fast as in the big cities. This immediately gives rise to uncertainty, both for consumers and for financiers. I must also advise against this motion. In the motion-Ronnes c.s. in piece No. 9 is asked to draw up a concrete action plan in addition to organising the cooperation table. If I may explain this motion in such a way that, on the basis of the findings of that cooperation table, which starts on 1 January 2017, I can report to the Chamber what actions we are going to take, I will leave the judgement to the Chamber. However, I think it is so pure that the cooperation table should take the first steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u267	Is that the case? We would like to hear that. Then we know where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u268	I can confirm that I agree with that explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u269	Then we know how to interpret the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u270	Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the Ronnes motion in part No. 10. calls on the government, in consultation with the Nibud and the AFM, to seek to update the Nibud standards, taking into account at least income prospects and energy costs. This calls for precision. I told Mrs Schouten that I would like to make calculations of the effects of the various energy labels on spending capacity and to share those findings with the Nibud. At the same time, I said that I am politically responsible for setting mortgage standards, but I do not want to exert political pressure on Nibud to set those standards. This motion is too much for that. In the first recital, it states that the application of the Nibud standards may lead to unreasonable situations. I think that's quite a statement, knowing that there really is an expansive possibility. Because the motion hangs too much on me for political pressure on the Nibud, I dissuade it on balance. However, my commitment that I will make calculations about the energy part, which is also mentioned in the motion, and that I will share it with the Nibud, remains. In the motion in part No. Mr Ronnes spoke about regional development. It calls on external experts to draw up a report on the way in which regional development has been established, on the role played by corporations and on the extent to which the interests of house seekers and tenants have been considered and served. I have left the initiative for regional development with the municipalities. They have involved not only housing corporations on a large scale, but also tenants and, of course, their own parliament. It is difficult to say that a rebellion or mass resistance has now broken out or that it has lasted endlessly. That procedure really went well. In order to have an external expert report drawn up, I think that is a very serious instrument. I also find that rather distrustful of those who have formed these regions in good conscience, and it is also a waste of money. I therefore advise against this motion. I'm coming to the Ronnes motion in part No. 12 about the followers. It calls on the government to give a concrete picture of the extent of the housing problems caused by travellers and to inform the Court of Justice about them. What is called for in the motion is already settled, because the Chamber always receives the estimates of the influx from the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. We translate them into the housing statement per municipality. These estimates also include the expected numbers of follow-up passengers. Municipalities themselves can also find information about the possible arrival of these passengers in the task tracking system. They can see, per licence holder, which of the following family members are to be expected. I therefore consider this motion superfluous. The President has pointed out to me that in that case I should advise her not to do so, which is what I am doing here. The Ronnes/Bashir motion in part No. 13 is about the state service. In that motion, the government is asked to inform the Chamber every two months about the nature and extent of the hiring of former employees of state officials. Again, a heavy reporting obligation is required. I say 'again' because the same applies to the motion for a resolution on regional development. It is a group which is not explicitly mapped, but which must be extremely small, as I have already explained. The integrity rules and purchasing rules already make it very difficult to hire former employees. So now we are asking for a reporting obligation for a group that we know is very small, but which we do not label separately somewhere in the administration. I think that too is out of proportion. We'll never get a small, efficient government. I therefore also advise against this motion. I come to Mr De Vries' motions. In his motion in part No. 14 the government is invited to have periodic housing needs included in the regional accounts and to impose an annual reporting obligation on housing market regions containing data on planned building production by segment. The government is also called upon to create a power that allows municipalities to provide a compelling indication of construction in the event of major social housing shortages and housing in the middle hire. When it comes to information to the regions, I will come up with an estimate of housing needs per region, as I said, so I share that part of the motion. The motion becomes very radical when it asks for a reporting obligation for housing market regions. The possibility of forcing municipalities to build would require a legislative change. I do not think this is in line with the way in which we have shaped the Housing Act, with greater powers for the municipalities, together with tenants and housing corporations, because there is the information about what is needed and what can be done. This also does not fit in with the whole way we organized it in the Netherlands. We have municipalities, with their own auditors, in the form of municipal councils, in which almost all parties in this room are represented. I find it very difficult to introduce national reporting and designation powers. That's a bit of a vote of no confidence towards the municipalities, so I have to advise against this motion. De Vries/Houwers motion in part No. 15 deals with the link between shrinking and growth regions and calls on the government to adopt an integrated approach to growth and shrinking and, in this context, to develop the plans of the Netherlands in balance sheet, together with the shrinking regions, into a plan for strengthening the structure of the regions. I promised the Chamber that with the shrinking regions, the authors of the Netherlands report in Balance, I would sit around the table about their plans. For my opinion on the motion, it is important to repeat the addition that the plans of those shrinking regions contain a very large financial claim, which I believe is 380 million. This cabinet doesn't have that. We are going to wait for the electoral programmes to see which parties would like to reserve large sums of money for this. In the elaboration, which I want to work on, I can't honor this kind of big claims. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that I am going to work with those regions on these plans, then I will leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I will make an explicit reservation on that financial claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u271	I can live with the fact that no financial agreements are made. They're not in this motion either. I would like to make the connection to urban policy. An opinion from the Huizenprijs Committee is to look in solidarity in the country where there is earning capacity or which can be used to maintain vitality at the borders of the country. I do not know how big this source of funding is, but I would like further research to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u272	This is about the capacity of the various regions. We have several instruments for this through the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund. I think it is right to include the question of whether they are sufficient in further research. Then I come to the motion by Mr De Vries/Vortman on part No. 16 on the financing of the National Partnership Active Residents. The motion calls on the government to ensure the financing of the LSA with a minimum of €375,000 for 2017, to be covered by the budgets of the ministries with which the work of the LSA is interrelated. I have a very warm heart for the LSA. Thanks to the mediation of the LSA, I have been allowed to walk and watch in the Schilderswijk for 12 years as I have already shared with the Chamber. I found that incredibly interesting. With every subsidised organisation, no matter how dear it is to me, I think we should continue to look critically at what amount is needed and what the organisation's ability to raise funds itself is. The LSA will receive €250,000 in 2017. So it is certainly not the case that we leave it to its fate. However, we have agreed that the subsidy will be reduced and that the LSA should look for other sources. This motion calls for that subsidy to be raised again in 2017, without indicating where the money should come from. I can only conclude that this motion is not covered. I have to dissuade her. I shall now come to Mr Madlener's motions. In the motion in part No. 12 is requested to reduce the rents and to reduce the landlord's tax. This motion is very similar to Mr Bashir's motion, which I have advised against. The effects of this are to a large extent felt by people who actually live too cheaply in a social housing unit. Those are the cheap crooks. Besides, the motion isn't covered. In the motion in part No. 13 Mr Madlener asked for the full repayment of mortgages to be reversed for start-ups and brought back to 50%. This measure, like the loan to value, was deliberately introduced a few years ago. We saw way too many people get into trouble. Interestingly, in the report by Bouwend Nederland on the Nibud standards, it is also explicitly stated that annuity redemption leads to lower risks for property owners. That's an unexpected compliment. In short, this policy works. It has also really led to a decent way of letting air out of a bloated housing market. So I really have to discourage this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 14 by Mr Madlener. It calls on the government, in consultation with banks, to substantially reduce the penalty on transfers and to use some of the lower monthly charges for additional repayment. As Mr Madlener knows, the rules on the amount of the fine to be calculated have already been substantially reduced in the case of interim repayments. That is what European legislation has come about. I see no reason to impose additional regulation on that, knowing that this kind of restriction also means that interest rates will increase for everyone because banks will increase that risk. I must therefore also advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 15 by Mr Madlener. It calls on the government to promote even more strongly that the number of free lots for both free-standing and driving homes in the Randstad increase and also to take into account the affordability for middle income. I have already pointed out to Mr Madlener that I share his ambition to increase the share of self-building and that I also use many instruments. In fact, I find this motion to support policy. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u273	I am, of course, very pleased with this judgment, but the motion is a little more than support for policy. This motion says that there is a need for a little bit of change in policy. She is a supporter of policy, but I assume the Minister means that, if the motion makes it, he's really gonna do his best for a tooth, so that there aren't two lots for sale in The Hague, but maybe 200.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u274	I'm not going to explain the motion that I'm not doing well right now. There are limits to what Mr Madlener can expect from me. What he can expect from me is that I continue this policy with extra energy. I appreciate that Mr Madlener is drawing attention to this. He was the only one who did. I think it is an important subject. It was not meant as a reproach to the others, Mr Koolmees. I think it is an essential part of the housing market. It's a sympathetic incentive. I shall now turn to Mr Koolmees' motion for a resolution. 21, which he submitted together with Mrs Schouten. This motion calls on the government to identify the possibilities of addressing regional differences, for example through differentiation in the housing valuation system, the rent allowance system or liberalisation limits. During the debate I told Mr Koolmees that we will probably be helped by the ibo. I would actually ask Mr Koolmees and Mrs Schouten, who co-signed the motion, to hold this motion until the ibo arrives. That's coming this fall. There's no final version yet, but I've seen some of it. That ibo is undoubtedly going to offer us some extra handles. That gives the Chamber the opportunity to take it a little further, and it gives me the opportunity, probably after a debate with the Chamber on that ibo, to look at the direction in which we should look further. Then we're really a step further than we are now. In short, this is a long introduction to ask the authors to hold this motion until the ibo arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u275	In itself, I am prepared to do so. When exactly is that gonna happen? It is now October 13th, almost October 14th. So it's already in the middle of the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u276	I'm going to do my utmost to get it to the Chamber in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u277	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u278	At the request of Mr Koolmees, I propose his motion (14550-XVIII, No. 21). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u279	I shall then turn to the Schouten/Bashir motion on part No. 22. This motion concerns the declaration of governance for people residing in social welfare institutions. It replaces an income test. This declaration of governance was made because I had indeed received signals that it is very complicated for people living in social welfare institutions to issue a statement of income. This declaration of governance has been drawn up in consultation with the Federation of Reception and the MO Group. It is evident that at that time it was assessed as workable for people living in social care institutions. For people who end up living independently, an income statement remains necessary, but for those who stay in social welfare institutions we have offered the administrative declaration as a relief. Since we have met and discussed this, I do not think it is logical to allow it to lapse altogether. It is not for nothing that we have agreed to keep an eye on the fact that social housing is also available to low-income people. I agree with Mrs Schouten that there is a group of people for whom this becomes very complicated. We are helping them through the declaration of governance, but it does not do justice to what we have done with it. In short, I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u280	I know what the Minister's saying. There are more discussions on this dossier, which are mixed up. This also concerns independent housing units offered by corporations, for which an income test is required. In particular, the statement of completeness is really a hiccup for most corporations. In order to do so, they must seek secret information from an institution. If I change the motion so that the Minister could set up a somewhat enlightened regime not only for the housing that is considered to be sheltered, but also for the housing offered by the corporations as a transit residence for the target group of social care, would the Minister be prepared to reconsider his assessment of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u281	I can't really see what the problem is with these transit homes, which are a separate part of the solution for this group of people. I propose that Mrs Schouten give me the opportunity to respond to that and to send a letter on that. I will not wait too long, so that letter will be received at the beginning of November. Then I can judge Mrs Schouten's question. I summarize this question as follows: is it possible to also work with an enlightened income statement regime for transit homes? Mrs Schouten gets a reaction from me and can then judge whether that is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u282	I thank the Minister for this commitment. I also ask him to look at the statement of completeness. I think there is a certain administrative burden and a bottleneck there. That is the direction in which I think the Minister should look. Again, thank you for this pledge. I'm holding this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u283	Then I come to the motion on part No. 23, also tabled by Mrs Schouten. In this motion, the government is asked to include the energy targets to be achieved in petajoule per year in the housing vision. I will report to the Chamber shortly on progress in energy saving in housing corporations. On that basis, I will consider, and I am sure the Chamber will, whether we should take additional measures. To say now that it is mandatory to include in the housing visions how much petajoule is to be achieved a year, I find a very heavy procedure. I think that would also require a legislative amendment. Here too, we have deliberately placed responsibilities on municipalities, corporations and tenant organisations. Energy saving is one of the key issues. On the basis of the motion, while we are only just working on the Housing Act and the performance agreements are still very early, we are immediately going to intervene in that by saying: you must do so in this way. I really think that's going too fast. So I'm going to have to make the motion in part no. 23 currently dissuaded. Once again, I am happy to enter into the debate after I have shared the progress report on energy saving with the Chamber. That will probably be by the end of October. Mrs Voortman spoke about the accessibility of state buildings for disabled people. It has the motion for a resolution on item No. 24, in which I am asked to make a plan of approach for the independent access of all state real estate and to forward that plan to the Chamber at the latest in the examination of the Housing and National Service budget 2018. This is gonna be a few steps too fast for me. The motion talks about "all the state real estate," but that is incredibly many and diverse; that goes from prisons to ministries and there are also monuments. So I can't just commit to the request in the motion. However, I can say that the Secretary of State for Health is preparing a General Measure of Management on the implementation of the Disability Convention in the built-up environment, following amendments adopted by the Chamber to the draft law on the implementation of the Disability Convention. I am happy to inform the Chamber on the basis of this General Measure of Management how we deal with it in the state buildings. My ambitions are high, but on this late evening I cannot promise that all buildings, regardless of the type, will always be accessible to everyone. I hope I will meet Mrs Voortman by saying that I will let the Chamber know how we will deal with this once the General Measure of Governance is in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u284	The motion contains two requests. I am prepared to delete the second request that the Minister has accepted. Then only the accessibility scan of the ministry buildings remains. That's 15 buildings. That's gonna work, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u285	Let me make a promise that I will come up with a letter on the implementation of this. I do not want to bind my hands now as to how I will do it with these buildings. Not all ministries are in apartment buildings. The term "ministry' may be correct as a word, but how should I deal with the establishment of the Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland outside the Randstad or with my own real estate company in Assen? It is all very scattered across the country, to the great joy of Mr De Vries, who I see nodding. Once again, I really want to meet you, but I can only do that if you do not bind me now to the way that that should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u286	I also come to an enormous end to the Minister by dropping my second request. All I'm asking him to do is take a step of my own. Don't let him wait for the Secretary of State. Let him say he's gonna do this for those 15 buildings at least. In doing so, he shows that he wants to take steps of his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u287	I've already indicated that those 15 buildings are wrong. The term "ministry buildings" refers to incredibly many buildings, in many places in the country. If I send Mrs Voortman a letter on how I am going to implement this, I think she will be served. I therefore ask her to hold her motion, because with this text I must discourage the motion. If she finds my letter, which will come in spring, insufficient, she will undoubtedly find me. In the motion in part No. 25 Mr Öztürk asked the government to continue to anticipate a possible overheated housing market, for example through a scenario analysis with emergency measures. I share the desire to continue to anticipate a potentially overheated housing market; hence, I have responded strictly to motions on relaxing loan-to-value or loan-to-income standards. But I find it a little bleak to take all kinds of emergency measures. That's why I have to discourage this motion. The second motion tabled by Mr Öztürk, which was adopted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, was adopted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 26, calls on the Government, in cooperation with relevant field parties, to raise awareness of the possibility of having the initial hire in the free sector checked by the Rent Commission among tenants. I come up with a bill on the Rent Committee, which Mr Bashir is somewhat unhappy about. I would be happy to discuss this proposal with the Chamber and with the parties concerned, when we are talking about the financing of the Rent Committee and its operation. If that is possible in the context of the legal process, I will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I see Mr Öztürk nodding. Mr Houwers asked me in his motion for a resolution on item No. 27 to consider whether a rental calculation form can be added to rental contracts, thus avoiding matters for the Rent Commission, and to consider how this can be made a condition for the award of the rental payment. Actually, the idea here is that every rental contract should have a separate calculation form. This means that you impose an additional obligation on every housing corporation and landlord, while we, I think, share the ambition of being reluctant to impose rules on housing corporations and entrepreneurs. We prefer to reduce the number of rules. The President of the Netherlands has made a clear appeal to this effect this morning. I am not too excited to introduce a new rule on the evening of the same day that will affect housing corporations and landlords. We have the Rent Commission for this. I just promised I'd check it again to see if it's enough. Let us not immediately re-establish a new rule, nor let us investigate it, because that is what Mr Houwers is asking. On balance, therefore, I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u288	I do not have the impression that I am asking for a lot more, because if the landlord determines a rental price, there is a calculation below. Then it's not so crazy that he adds that calculation, even if it's very brief, to a rental contract? So I ask the Minister to look at it again with this look. It's not about a lot of administrative work. It's actually adding something you're already doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u289	If it does, it doesn't require a motion. If it's something extra, you're going to put an extra action on the organizations and people who have to do that action. I am surprised that Mr Houwers, of whom I think he wants to impose an additional obligation on the entrepreneurs who are active in the rental business. Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u290	That obligation is really marginal, because that calculation must already be made. It's not like you're gonna meet one person, it's just adding something you've already calculated. It's really not that complicated. I think the Minister's a little over-thinking about it. I share his view that we should try to reduce administrative burdens and rules. On the contrary, I believe that we can limit the number of cases of Rent Committees. That's what it's about; that's what it's about. That's what it says. So I ask the Minister to look at it a little less critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u291	The draft law on the financing of the Rent Committee already contains a strong financial incentive to reduce the number of procedures. So that's what's been thought of. The statement that this is a small addition to the regulatory burden leads me to think that the regulatory burden will increase enormously if one Member of Parliament adds one small line to each budget debate. Mr. Houwers is laughing now, but add up. I cannot now blame the Chamber for such a massive accumulation, but let us say that in each budget one Member proposes an extra rule, every year. Then we can fill this building with all the extra rules. Let's not do that. In his motion in part No. 28 Mr Houwers does not ask me, but he says that it is undesirable that housing corporations apply for registration fees for prospective tenants at the corporations. I have already indicated that there are a lot of people on waiting lists who are not actually looking and that this pollutes our image very much. So I do not think it is unreasonable to ask for a small contribution. So I'm not suggesting this motion. In his motion in part No. 29 Mr Van Vliet asked the Government to examine how exemption from transfer tax on transfers of social housing between authorised institutions could be achieved as a result of the division into new housing market regions. This motion is based on the false assumption that a housing corporation should not have housing outside its own region. However, the Housing Act states that you cannot expand outside your own region. The property that's there may be held. It may also be sold, for example to another corporation, to residents or to investors. That is why I see no reason to introduce an exemption from transfer tax, apart from the question of possible state aid, which I mentioned earlier. Interested other buyers could really say: what is this nonsense, I would have liked to have that place, but here is the exemption. So I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u292	The State aid debate is theoretical, as it concerns the SGEI document. There is no state aid discussion with Brussels on this, precisely because we have clearly separated ourselves from the non-DAE document. As for the housing market region classification: you are not obliged to sell houses.... you are limited to a certain region..... but in the context of optimization, there will certainly be movement in the sense of transfer of real estate. Then I find it unreasonable to go into the full amount of transfer tax for that, especially since it is not in any fiscal estimate. So I'm definitely going to put that motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u293	Just for the people listening and who may not know these kinds of abbreviations: what does SGEI stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u294	SGEIs represent services of general economic interest. That's a social rental house. That is certainly not a state aid discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u295	Okay, so we can all follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u296	Because a very large part of the property of corporations is liberalised or to be liberalised, you will also have the discussion there. With this explanatory statement by Mr Van Vliet, too, I continue to dissuade the motion. Then I come to the last motion by Mr Van Vliet and at all this evening, the motion in part No. 30, inviting the Government to ensure that the Authority's housing corporations can proceed fully independently in its supervisory function and to return that independence to the signing of all outgoing documents of the Authority's Housing Corporations. As far as "can proceed independently" is concerned, I have always indicated that housing at the Leefenvironment and Transport Inspection means combining business operations with efficient management, and that it may well be that the Authority really has to participate in this area and therefore has to accept instructions. With regard to the supervisory task and the signature of outgoing documents, this motion supports policy. I can therefore leave the judgement to the Chamber. I hope I have answered the motions and also the questions in the second term. But I don't think that's quite the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u297	I asked another question. I had not tabled a motion for that because I did not think that this is really necessary. That question was about the proposal of Bouwend Nederland, FME and UNETO-VNI for a database. I think that only brings benefits. I'm asking the Minister to talk to those parties, that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u298	I am, of course, prepared to do so. Mr De Vries has not yet asked for this, but I am sure he expects the outcome of that discussion from me. He's gonna get it, too. That brings me to the end of my reply. Then I have to conclude that we are not finished. Every now and then I have heard a farewell speech in the contributions of the Chamber, but fortunately that is not yet the case. I hope that you will continue to work extensively in the coming months with further legislative proposals, as well as with the homework you have given me this evening. I hope that in the coming months, including with the elections in sight, we will still be able to reach good decisions on a number of important issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-17.u299	I would like to thank the Minister for his second-term reply. I would like to inform you that on 25 October, the first day after the autumn recess, we will meet again and also vote on the motions that have been tabled this evening. I would like to thank all those who are here, particularly the staff of the Chamber who have given us the opportunity to have this debate up to a quarter to twelve, not just midnight.
