ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u1	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the written questions. Asbestos is repulsive matter, literally and figuratively. That's why we have this VSO tonight. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas small asbestos roofs within the built-up area pose a risk to residents in the event of fire, but also by weathering;]] [[noting that the high costs of clean-up constitute an obstacle to the replacement of these roofs;]] [[noting that owners of buildings with small asbestos roofs have little entitlement to grant schemes;]] [[Considers that a higher reduction in costs appears necessary in order to meet the prohibition deadline of 2024, which does not lead to a large collection of poignant cases in due course;]] [[calls on the Government to seek additional room for manoeuvre in the 2017 budget and thereafter to achieve the objective set in a timely manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u2	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a partnership of local authorities, LTO, the asbestos sanatorium and the Association of Insurance Companies is involved in a programmed approach to the rehabilitation of asbestos roofs;]] [[Whereas, however, there is a feeling that the necessary acceleration in the rehabilitation of asbestos roofs requires more direction from the national authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to shape this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u3	We've been out in the field looking at what's going on. In general, I note that there is a fear that 2024 will not be reached. There's a legislative process coming up. That's fine, because the Council of State has also advised. As far as my group is concerned, however, there is still a gap between now, the date of the ban, and when the funds can be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u4	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. I forgot. Apologies. I would have welcomed her, but not yet in public. So I'm doing that on this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u5	Welcome to the chairman. Mr. Chairman. My first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to formalise the partnership and to give it a clear mandate, building on the knowledge and experience already gained;]] [[In addition, the Government invites the House of Representatives to submit to it a clear programme of action on asbestos rehabilitation, which will identify, inter alia, the moments for evaluation of the current subsidy scheme, information and communication and identify the problems that still exist or are to be expected in the course of asbestos rehabilitation towards 2024,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u6	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the waste tax on asbestos is at odds with the priority policy objective of restoring asbestos roofs;]] [[calls on the Government to identify, identify and inform the Court of Justice of the possibilities of exempting asbestos waste from the waste tax and of identifying and replacing asbestos inventories and renovations and roofing below the VAT rate of 6%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u7	I don't think there is any party here today that doesn't want to get rid of asbestos. We therefore support initiatives for a programmed approach. However, this approach needs to be strengthened and broadened. I think the Secretary of State agrees with that, too. All interested parties should agree to this. Is the Secretary of State talking to the parties concerned about this? Maybe she can say something about that. Structurally more co-ordinated financial support is needed. In addition, the CDA does not want endless inventory and exploration. When will the Chamber be informed about the optimisation of the reorganisation rules as discussed between ministries? I am also curious when the TNO report will be delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the clean-up of all Dutch asbestos roofs before the entry into force of the asbestos roof ban in 2024 requires a considerable effort by both the government, the market and civil society as well as the owners of asbestos roofs;]] [[Whereas an approach can only be successful if the forces are combined;]] [[Considering that the provinces of Overijssel and Limburg have already had a lot of experience with this at the decentralised level and that the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment has also made a good start with this by appointing a partnership;]] [[Considering that in the coming years the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment will have an important role to play in the field of:]] [[the mapping by competent authorities of the overall statement and monitoring of the development of roof restoration;]] [[the joint examination of acceleration possibilities through, inter alia, scaling up, optimising the reorganisation process and the resulting cost reduction;]] [[identifying the need for accompanying measures, such as the relaxation of legislation and regulation and the promotion of financing structures;]] [[raising awareness among asbestos roof owners;]] [[calls on the government to instruct the grouping to draw up a national plan of approach taking into account the above elements by the end of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Cegerek. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u9	We are very pleased with this arrangement, which entered into force on 1 January 2016 and runs until 31 January 2019. The amount of 75 million has been spread over the coming years, up to 2020. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if there's been a prioritization. Is priority given, for example, to situations where health risks are greatest? I'd like to get an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u10	I hear Mrs Cegerek talking about a plan of action and cooperation. Does she consider that there is no plan of action yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u11	A partnership has been established. I believe that this can be strengthened on a number of points, as I said in my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u12	Clear. I am curious to know what the Secretary of State thinks about this and whether she believes that she already has a plan of action or that this is something that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you. Mr Dijkstra may now come to the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr. Chairman. I'm in politics to solve problems and I foresee a problem with asbestos. In our written contribution, I have already indicated that asbestos restructuring should be more effective, faster, cheaper and easier. That must be possible, especially given the task that lies ahead, if you take that task seriously. Despite the answer given by the Secretary of State, I am not reassured that we have achieved the enormous restructuring exercise that remains, with this budget and at this rate in 2024. The subsidy scheme available does not appear to be proportionate to the total amount of funding. It's gonna be in the billions. So society is faced with this by the entry into force of this ban last year. The VVD supports the target. Asbestos is dangerous and there is no discussion about it. But the approach chosen does not really believe the VVD is credible. The ban already poses problems, because many asbestos-containing objects are and are unsellable. Many owners do not have the money to replace their roof and insurance will also be difficult. I have an example of a family from the north of the country that wrote me. That family has a nice, nicely renovated farmhouse, but that farmhouse has an asbestos roof. These 67-year-olds and 75-year-olds are faced with huge costs and contributions, because they must have replaced their roofs by 2024. That's a big problem, even if you sell it against the mortgage and the World War II. The investments are substantial. I see such a problem and I want to solve it. However, I do not want to clean up all farm heirs or farms. I will wait for progress next year to give the Secretary of State the chance to prove to me that her plan of action is right. How will the Secretary of State inform us about the progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u15	Mr Dijkstra started in a way that appealed to me. However, I have tabled an amendment to the budget to increase this budget. I have done so in the same fear: we are not going to make it before 2024. That amendment, I believe, did not support the VVD at the time. Was there a special reason for that? If I listen to Mr Dijkstra now, I think we are on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u16	I see a very big task coming towards us. At the current rate of 4 million square meters a year, versus the 120 we have to do, we're not gonna make it. With the years we have left, we won't even make it halfway. However, I think it is a little early to say that we need money. The Secretary of State stated in her reply that there is 75 million. The total cost may well go to the 3 or 4 billion. I don't think the government should pay for everything. People have absolutely a responsibility in that too. However, I do not want a cold clean-up. I'd like the Secretary of State to convince me that we're moving at a higher rate. So I want us to be able to make it easier to clean up. In 2024, we should not be faced with the fact that people are no longer allowed to live in their own homes or that the cattle have to leave the stables, purely because the asbestos is still there. How are we going to maintain this? It is not for nothing that the decision taken by the cabinet last March has to be legally repaired. That's not for nothing. I have the feeling that this ban is not well thought out. I don't want to make extra money for it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u17	Mr Smaling, do you have any doubts as to whether you would like to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u18	Yes, because this sounds a bit like speaking for the stage. Mr Dijkstra sympathizes with the people who may not be able to afford it all themselves, but if there is butter in the fish, Mr Dijkstra does not give at home. I find that a little easy. If he does not support the amendment, this means, for example, that he considers more asphalt more important. He finds this more important than getting rid of something that we have done to people, at first without knowing it and then shoving it under the carpet. Now is the time to say goodbye once and for all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u19	No, I'd also like to say goodbye to asbestos, but I don't think it's easy to find the amounts needed in the government. Politics is making choices. There is now a budget of 75 million, which has to work as a kind of flywheel and that should stimulate people. The Secretary of State has previously indicated in a general consultation that this is starting to happen. She's confident. I'm not convinced yet, but I'd like to be convinced. As far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State has a year in which she can show how things are going. If the time comes when it is not fast enough and additional resources are needed, then that is a political debate that we can absolutely have in the next budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u20	I find Mr Dijkstra's contribution very acidic. Doing nothing is not an option. I am very pleased that the government is allocating extra resources. This will start on 1 January 2016. I hear no alternative from Mr Dijkstra. How else could we solve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u21	In our written round I made a number of suggestions to make it easier to clean up asbestos. Now, for example, there is a restriction on individuals. They can do it themselves up to 35 m, but why wouldn't you raise it? Is it necessary, in every situation, to repeat: in every situation, because it is a dangerous substance, to take so many protective measures? Are there no innovative methods that can be used more quickly, for example the coating we have heard in the round table that we organised together? Are there no methods that allow the reduction of asbestos to be cheaper, easier and faster in regulations, in costs or in working methods? The VVD has absolutely ideas about this. Yeah, well, we've done that, too. I myself find the Secretary of State's reaction somewhat disappointing, but I would like to give her the opportunity to prove that it is faster and easier and that we can get this going, to solve the problem without pulling our own wallets right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u22	Mr. Chairman. Asbestos is indeed a problem. We should want to do something about that. That is what we want with each other, but the question is whether we have enough money and whether we have enough rules and sufficient freedoms. Mr Dijkstra has already said something about this. I think we can add a little more incentive to it, for example by combining the clean-up of asbestos with energy measures or by encouraging people to start it more quickly. I ask the Secretary of State not to wait a year, as Mr Dijkstra wants, but to inform us, for example, before the summer recess, of what has happened and what can happen. Then we can look, perhaps together with Mr Smaling in the budget, at whether extra money is needed. I think it needs to be widened. It should apply not only to farmers, as in some provinces, but also to citizens. We need to put our hands together to actively clean up asbestos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u23	The Secretary of State has indicated that she can respond immediately and comment on the motions. I'd be happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u24	Mr. Chairman. I'd be happy to. First of all, I would like to make a few general remarks. Asbestos is indeed a dangerous substance, which unfortunately was applied on a very large scale in the last century because of its attractive properties, as was thought at the time. The hazard characteristics are known. We all know him. This means that we must now also work on solutions. I do not think there is any discussion about this either in society or in the Chamber. The question is what is a sensible approach. Do you believe in what's in store? That is how I understand part of the Chamber. At least I'm focusing on a number of tracks. First of all, I would like to mention the approach at source. This means that fortunately the use of asbestos has been banned since 1994. This also means that no new asbestos has been added in the last 20 years. In addition, we need to address in particular those situations in which asbestos fibres can enter the living environment. This translates, for example, into the already achieved phase-out of asbestos-containing brake lining in cars, the completed approach to private asbestos roads around former asbestos factories and the elimination of resistant asbestos roofs. That's what we're mainly talking about today. Where asbestos is safe, so without any risk of fibre spreading, we are not going to do so. This is particularly true in those buildings in which there is no renovation. If that is the case, we must, of course, identify precisely where the asbestos is. That must then be removed responsibly. Now I'm getting to the point of the rooftops. That's what the Chamber got information about. I think I can assure Mr Houwers that we will indeed make progress in mid-May, at least before the summer. A number of Members have said that it is wonderful in itself that there is 75 million available and that it is a good thing that there is a partnership. However, they also wondered whether we would step up the pressure with each other to make the approach a success. Eventually, the approach has to prove itself. I think this will have to be proved in practice. On the basis of the answer to the motions, I would like to show what level I would perhaps like to take with the Chamber another step, and which I am telling you at this point that you should not do it already. Perhaps it would be best if I were to show you how I feel about it by responding to the motions. I would like to see Mr Smaling's motion on item No. 106 in which he has already said that there should be extra room for manoeuvre in the budget. I really think it would be better to start by giving the 75 million available, which is what applications are for, a chance to prove themselves and not to look for extra space in advance. For starters, that space just isn't there. That's an important fact. Moreover, I agree with Mr Dijkstra that the task is much more expensive than the amount of funding available and that all this can never be achieved from the government. In any case, we will have to work creatively, with the responsibility of the owners. There's no other way. That is what we need the partnership to do. That is why I want the Smaling motion in part No. 107 to the judgment of the Chamber. I believe that the direction that Mr Smaling is asking for in this motion has already been taken by us in fact, including the documents that we have already sent to the Chamber. So this motion is basically policy support. We are already doing this, but if Mr Smaling thinks that this should be said again, I have no objection to it. I do not consider that to be something that I consider to be different from Mr Smaling. In that sense, the judgment on the motion in part No. 107 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u25	That's good, 'cause I'm trying to double-cross here. In my first motion I asked to "search for." I deliberately did not draft this motion as an amendment, because that is not the issue at this time of the year. What worries me is that we are going down the path of legislation so that it can be maintained, even though we already know that the budget will not be sufficient to complete the tasks by 2024. That hole bothers me, because then you will transfer the hot potato to a government that will be there by 2020. It has a very short period of time...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u26	What is your question, Mr Smaling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u27	That government will have only a very short period of time to realise what needs to be achieved. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it would be better now to see if you could raise the amount of 75 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u28	No, I do not agree with Mr Smaling because I really believe that the partnership and all the creativity we need will have to prove itself. At the moment we live in 2016. It is really not necessary to take this step now. I don't rule out that you can or have to take this step at any time, but you certainly shouldn't now. That would also assume that we are actually investing every financial problem that arises on this file with the government. I don't think that's fair. That's not a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u29	Shortly, Mr. Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u30	Surely the whole asbestos issue is of a different order from many other things that we also spend money on? I can imagine that within I and M you have in mind certain expenses for 2017 that are actually losing out against the need to do so very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u31	We have, of course, also made a substantial sum available for this reason. In our budget, 75 million is not a small amount, really. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 108 by Mr Geurts. We'll do whatever he asks in there. The request is therefore for me to support policy. It is good that we are presenting a clear programme and a clear approach, in which we are also creating evaluation moments. What is being proposed here is, as far as I am concerned, just an ongoing policy. The motion can therefore be left to the discretion of the Chamber. I hope she'll back her up, or I'll have a problem. The motion in part No. 109 I must advise against. The Secretary of State for Finance is about the waste tax. The proposal in this motion should also be covered. There isn't one. Apart from that, there are substantive reasons not to go down this path. The waste tax is a generic tax, which applies to all waste that is landfilled. It is a simple tax, which avoids all kinds of exceptions. This avoids additional administrative burdens, a subject for which Mr Geurts is usually very sensitive. In 2015, we reduced the rate for landfill waste. We also see that a possible route to fraud would be opened if you created an exception. It then becomes attractive to mix asbestos with other waste in order to avoid having to pay. So this would introduce a danger that I wouldn't want to run. Apart from all the reasons I have just given, namely that it is not my subject but that of the Secretary of State for Finance and that we have no cover for it, we therefore have good reasons for not wanting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u32	The Secretary of State just appointed three elements. I'll limit myself to one. There is no need for cover. I would ask that we get ahead of the fact that we are not going to achieve asbestos remodelling towards 2024 in the way we are now putting in. So the CDA thinks ahead and asks the Cabinet to consider how we can improve that towards 2024. Why doesn't the Cabinet want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u33	I appreciate the charm with which Mr Geurts is making his contribution, but in the meantime he will have a gap in next year's budget. I don't quite know if that's pre-thinking by his own rules. I don't think so, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u34	I'm a little stunned. If you're mapping something...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u35	You just received a compliment, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u36	Yeah, I know. That compliment already confuses me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u37	Mr Geurts hasn't been used to that since I moved to another department.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u38	I can even see Mr Graus coming in, so now we are going to have a lot of experience. But no, the point is that we cannot in any way make a hole in the budget if we want something to be mapped out. I'm not asking for money, I'm asking for a map. I think it's a compliment that the Secretary of State thinks that if she charts it, she'll be right on the hook because the CDA's gonna push it through. But no, I'm just asking you to map it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u39	I'm gonna stick to the answer I just gave. First of all, it should not be I and M's stasis but finance's. If I were him, I wouldn't. I do not have the resources in his situation, but it is not a good route either. I understand that Mr Geurts is not going to go into that now, but I would like to say that he is opening the door, actually a Pandora box, for mixing waste with asbestos, because it makes it financially extra attractive. You shouldn't want that. Apart from my colleague's responsibility, I therefore feel that, on the basis of my responsibility, you should not explore it either, because it will simply cause misery. I'm afraid I can't say it much more clearly. I now come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 110 by Mrs Cegerek. It seems to me in itself fine to do this this way. I am also prepared to come up with a national plan of action before the end of the year, together with the partnership. So we will all have to play our part in this. That's the only way we can get the schedule. So it hasn't been said that this is easy. I see with the Chamber that there is a great deal to be done about it. We can still adjust on the way, but this joint effort must be made. For this reason, I will leave the Cegerek motion in part No. 110, please, to the judgment of the Chamber. Mrs Cegerek has asked a number of questions. She's asking if we can deal with the most weathered roofs first. That is not wise, because that means that we must first map out exactly what the situation is all over the country. After that, we could only make a choice. This would not bring the main objective of removing all asbestos roofs by 2024, but would cause a great deal of delay. In the end, it is very important for the scheme to take place in order of entry. Those are the promising proposals. That's what keeps us going. Mrs Cegerk's follow-up question was whether I am talking to all the stakeholders. The programmed approach that we have in mind and the partnership are, of course, aimed at this. We really need to do it together with the partners. I say to Mr Dijkstra that we will have to think about creativity in the solutions. We will also need to explore innovations. Mr Houwers spoke about this. The next few months will have to be used to look further at the possibilities. Then you shouldn't lock the mind in advance. We will send a plan of action to the Chamber before the end of the year, in accordance with Mrs Cegerek's motion on item No. 110. I will inform the Chamber about the progress of the subsidy scheme in its responsibility for 2016, I say to Mr Dijkstra. I think it is important that in May, before the summer, we give the Chamber a first step forward so that it can keep its finger on the pulse together with me. It is up to all of us to do this difficult project, because I also see that it is, to succeed. That's what we need each other for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-11.u40	I thank the Secretary of State for the answer. The motions tabled today will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
