ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Sunday night I watched The Monitor. I was shocked by the way the Tax Administration seems to deal with our personal data. It seems to be a reasonable chaos. People are linked together as payment partners and can therefore see the data of strangers: income data, bsn and you name it. Privacy is at stake, and my group really does not think that is acceptable. In addition, the victims have an additional problem. Because previous residents do not write themselves out at an address for any reason, a new resident suddenly becomes a two-earner and thus misses hundreds of euros in supplements. The National Ombudsman and the Personal Data Authority have also expressed serious concerns about the way things are going in the transmission of The Monitor. First of all, people in financial difficulties must be compensated. That is why I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Can all reports of privacy violations and errors be adjusted, and immediately? How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that those injured, who sometimes have to submit six to eight months' notice of objection before they finally receive an answer, are compensated immediately or as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The broadcast showed something that originated in haunted habitation. That means there are people registered to your address that you don't know at all. It may also be that your property was split, but it wasn't split in Basic Registration Persons. Then all of a sudden there are people at your address that you may not know at all. The Tax Administration uses the Basic Registration Persons through a fully automated process. It is our most modern process, with which we arrange 8 million surcharges per month. However, if you insert incorrect information from the basic registration, that information remains incorrect and a lot of things can go wrong. For example, you can suddenly no longer get a supplement because there would be no independent residence. Mrs Oosenbrug is quite right about that. Indeed, there are occasional conflicts of privacy. So far, we've corrected that, but it's only possible if someone put it on themselves. After all, there is no other way for the Tax Administration to find out at all. People can only report it on their own. In the basic registration, it looks like they're living together. That was then changed in the automated systems. But those systems often changed back. This was because the municipality had not yet adapted the basic registration and if this was done, it would not have done so retroactively. Then the problem blew back again. Of course, that's very annoying. That has also given some people the feeling that they had an anonymous fight with a large administratively anonymous device: a kind of Kafka. Well, that's my favorite literature during the gloomy Christmas days, but when it comes to the payment, that's a highly undesirable feeling for a lot of payment recipients. Since the last quarter of 2015, we have been doing this differently. The Tax Administration is still unable to adapt the Basic Registration Persons independently, but we do adapt it in the internal systems and we don't put it back in the automated process anymore. So we process it manually. If it is reported or marked, it is immediately passed on to the supplement department, rather than much later, as sometimes happened. These cases will be cleared up much faster. Furthermore, it is of course immediately reported to the municipality, which then has to change the basic registration. It happens a little later sometimes. So you can solve it faster, but there can still be a privacy problem. After all, people have to report it themselves. They noticed it themselves, so something's already wrong. Mrs Oosenbrug is quite right about that. As far as that goes, we're really in a split. I'll explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u3	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u4	The law makes demands for privacy. Mrs Oosenbrug is quite right about that. At the same time, the law says that if you do not live independently and reside with others, the Tax Administration must refuse the supplement and also state why the supplement has been refused. The Tax Office must give the name of the fellow residents. The law also states that the Tax Administration must give the assessment income. That makes sense, too. If damn your supplement is rejected, it makes sense for you to hear from the Tax Administration what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u5	I would now like to reply to Mrs Oosenbrug's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u6	This means that we have been much closer on top since the fourth quarter of 2015 and are much more likely to prevent these cases from occurring. We can also make sure that they are solved much faster. But it is not entirely possible to prevent the occasional sighting of data that is not at all intended for those. That is less with the new method, but I do not have the solution to get out of this legal gap. Removing one of the two laws would be much worse, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u7	The Secretary of State actually states that these are system errors arising from a processing in the Basic Registration Persons and that privacy is therefore at stake at some point in time. He also says, "You have to, because it's no different." I don't agree with that because we have a law on privacy for a reason. According to that law, you're entitled to the government's careful handling of your personal data. This is not a careful way of handling personal data. I've received payouts from people who just see the details of their supplement partners; they can see their bsn and income. The beauty of being on a radio program is that people find you very quickly. It's not about one or two people. This is about hundreds of maybe thousands of cases. This isn't a little thing, not a little weave error. I want to hear from this Secretary of State who's in charge. Who's to say that the moment I discover that privacy breach, the system will be shut down immediately if necessary manually? If it says in one law that this privacy violation is allowed, then it says in the other law that this privacy violation should not be allowed. How do we ensure that people who have been waiting for six to eight months, because they are still there at the moment, still receive their allowances? I'd like a clear answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u8	They're not system errors. There's nothing wrong with the system, there's something really wrong with the Basic Registration Persons in some cases. This means, for example, that someone is registered as a fellow resident, whereas that person is not. The law states, and that makes sense, that you have to process the income of all residents at an address in order to determine if someone gets a supplement. Mrs Oosenbrug will agree with me that it is reasonable for the Tax Administration to do so. So my answer to her question is: once the Tax Administration receives a notification of this, it is taken out of the automated process and corrected as quickly as possible so that the data is no longer visible. Nor will they return as was the case in the past. There's no more flopping back. Because the Tax Administration has been better on this since the fourth quarter, it is now trying to recover all cases that have suffered in the past, in this way, whether manually or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u9	I would like to hear a time limit when those who object today will still receive their allowance. In addition, I ask again: how can someone who according to an old decision is completely settled still see the data in the account? If your decision is approved and you win and you're right, how come the supplement partners you don't have, in this case even three, are still in your account at My surcharges? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u10	This is possible because we did it in a different way for the fourth quarter of 2015. Then we put it back in the automated system. This is again reflected in the outdated basic administration and then there is another wrong conclusion. That doesn't happen now that we're pulling it out manually, so that danger has passed. But it is important to deal with the old cases as quickly as possible. I cannot promise a deadline for this now, because we cannot even identify the exact cases. In the past, there was no record of this either. So I don't know if it's thousands of cases. I know that a small 90 people have joined the programme, but that will not be all of them. With them is now being made speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mrs Oosenbrug, of course, has a point. We must appeal to the negative signals about the implementation of all kinds of rules by the Tax Administration. Soon we'll have an AO on the IRS. I think that digitisation and ICT will prevail with the Tax Administration during that AO. We are having a plenary debate this evening on the flow in the rental market. One of the most important issues is the assessment of income. According to the Secretary of State, is the Dutch Tax Administration able to carry out an annual income test? That's linked to this, because this is about files and automation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u12	This question comes as a completely new debate in the Chamber. I know that the questioner would like to have precise and tested answers to his questions. I will therefore first look closely at this and provide a test answer. That is not possible during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u13	Can we do it for tonight's debate, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u14	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u15	I'll see if I can give the answer to the question for tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u16	I have always advocated cooperation between public authorities. Now that doesn't seem to go well. Is it clear for the future that things are improving and that these kinds of crazy cases no longer occur? Apparently, this also plays with retroactive effect. How many cases are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u17	This is not, in essence, a question of inter-agency cooperation. If the Basic Registration Persons works well as a base file for the Tax Administration, the process of surcharges goes well at this point. This is about the fact that the basic data are not in order. Unfortunately, the weakest link is the resident who gives up a wrong address, forgets to unsubscribe or split the house but forgets to pass it on. That's always the weak link. We're the weak ones. I myself am not so strong administratively, so my sympathy goes all the way to those who forget to give up. But here's the problem. This is not about cooperation between the authorities. It doesn't mean we can stop it from ever happening again. It just means that if it happens, we'll jump on top as soon as possible, get it out of the automated process and make sure that people don't have any more problems with it. We can do that. Furthermore, Mr Plasterk is working on improving the Basic Registration Persons as best as possible, but people always play a role in this. As I said in my reply to Mrs Oosenbrug's question, I am not aware of the number of cases. So far we have not kept that separately. However, there is every reason to do so from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you. This brings to an end oral Question Time.
