ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The reason why the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants to discuss the external trade and development cooperation budget is that our group is very concerned about the commitment that the Netherlands is making in the coming years in development cooperation in the places where it matters most: in the developing countries. More than ever, there is a need to invest in the root causes of poverty, instability and migration, writes the cabinet itself in the 2017 HGIS note. We share that view. Achieving the global goals for sustainable development in 2030, which the Netherlands has fully committed itself to with the strong agreement of my group, requires an unabated commitment. Fortunately, the number of people living in extreme poverty is falling, but we are far from there. And extreme inequality is only increasing. In short, there is still a lot to do! For GroenLinks, it is self-evident that we from our rich part of the world make a substantial contribution to the further eradication of poverty and a just distribution of prosperity, for ideal reasons, but also because development in fragile states and unstable regions ultimately provides the best for people and countries to shape their own future. It is not only economic and political instability, but also climate change with unpredictable droughts or unforeseen long-term rainfall, which create enormous additional challenges in large parts of Africa in particular. Climate change disrupts economies and societies and hits the poorest, especially women, hardest, we see with the cabinet. Development and mitigation of the effects of climate change must therefore help people in their own environment to see hope and to have a better future and not in rattling cars through the desert and crumbling boats at sea seeking their salvation elsewhere. The Netherlands cannot do this alone, but in our view the Netherlands, together with other Western countries, must continue to take the lead. The current efforts of the cabinet do not underpin the urgency which the government itself calls in words. The budget for development cooperation in 2015 was 5.1 billion, fell to 4.7 billion in 2016 and is only 3.9 billion in the 2017 budget. With unchanged policies, this will go further down to 3.4 billion in 2019. In percentage terms, we are only at 0.56% of GDP in 2017, and that share is falling further to 0.46%. Next year, in 2017, we will end up with a structural cut of 1 billion. In this context, it is almost cynical that the Netherlands is at risk of becoming the largest recipient of its own development aid, because we are paying for the reception of first-year asylum seekers here in the Netherlands. That's where almost a quarter of the ODA funds are headed. We ask the Minister to clarify the estimates, expenditure and different coverage of the funds for first-year reception of asylum seekers. What possibilities does it see to relieve ODA funds as much as possible? The basic question to the Minister is whether she does not agree with my group that ODA funds are not there to spend in the Netherlands, but in countries that have the highest priority. As far as we are concerned, it is much wiser to pay for the first-year reception of asylum seekers from the general funds, especially now that the windfall is being piled up. In this way, there will be more stability and certainty about the budget available for genuine development cooperation on the ground. I would also like to draw attention to another distortion that we see emerging. Does the Minister recognise our observation that the political choices made by the government for the use of development funds mean that the emergency aid budget is falling compared with previous years, whereas for example, export financing for Dutch industry is increasing? Does the Minister think that's a lucky choice? We borrow part of the budgets for development cooperation through a cash drawer in 2017 from the funds of future budgets. Does the Minister share GroenLinks' conclusion that this will lead to a 1.2 billion hole in the OS budget after 2020? What possibilities does the Minister see to fix this gap? To help determine the direction: my group, like the minister's party, wants to move quickly towards a budget of 0.7% of the gross national product for development cooperation, regardless of sufficient climate finance and regardless of the reception of first-year asylum seekers. We are far from that now and the direction is wrong. This makes it difficult for our group to agree to this budget. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are facing a real reversal. My party aims to ensure that the budget continues to grow to 1.0% of GDP in the future. Then we really show that we stand for a more just world, not only with words, but also with deeds. We would like a response from the Minister. Finally. We appreciate the efforts of the Minister and her foreign minister to tackle the causes of migration. However, my group looks with mixed feelings at the migration deals that are concluded from the EU with countries from which much migration is taking place. Is it true that this is not about improving conditions for refugees, but about blocking escape routes? And is this made a condition for European Union aid? We would like to hear from the Minister the content and conditions of the migration deal with Mali which the Netherlands has taken the lead in the European context. Furthermore, we strongly support the Netherlands' leading role in this. However, we also wonder whether this migration deal is primarily aimed at obstructing escape routes. Or has the Netherlands also taken the lead in getting a better deal for Mali and for the people involved? We would like to await the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group shares with the applicants for this plenary debate the concerns about the pressure from the first-year reception of asylum seekers on the external trade and development cooperation budget. It is known that D66 likes to see a different system than the current design, in which this reception is covered by the ODA budget. Currently, around 25% of the ODA budget is spent in our own country, making the Netherlands net recipient of development cooperation funds. That is quite cynical, because the contributions of the Netherlands to the reception in the region through emergency aid and the Dutch Relief Fund are now lower than the expenditure for the reception of first-year asylum seekers in our own country. We would like to see that again in the years to come, in order to maintain our credibility vis-à-vis the countries of the region. After all, the majority of refugees still live there. How does the Minister himself see this crooked relationship? My group can imagine that it is difficult for the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation to pay the bill for this first-year reception of asylum seekers, but that Secretary of State Dijkhoff determines how that money is spent. The Minister cannot therefore change the fact that the Netherlands has lost on average the highest amount per asylum seeker internationally in all DAC countries: no less than USD 31,933 per year according to the latest OECD figures. The question of whether this could be done better and more efficiently is a question which, my group fears, cannot be answered by this Minister. This leads to a bizarre situation in which the Dutch government rightly keeps Dutch funding organisations, their partners and other international organisations very sharp, for example through extensive expectations about the proper application of the Theory of Change to programmes and projects, monitoring and evaluation and expenditure, but cannot do so in its own country for the ODA funds spent on asylum seekers. We would like to hear a response from the Minister. The way in which the budget for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is presented to both Chambers makes it difficult to understand enough how asylum expenditure and its coverage in relation to the Development Cooperation budget are exactly the same. In response to a request from the Lower House, the Minister last September. tried to clarify this in a letter. This letter sets out the costs of first-year care and its coverage in the years 2014-2018. That these figures cannot provide any real certainty, the Minister himself underlines in this letter. "The estimate of asylum entry and reception costs is surrounded by substantial uncertainty as they depend on difficult-to-predict developments in the countries and regions of origin," said the Minister. The implications of this substantial uncertainty have recently become clear, as the estimate for the 2016 asylum influx has been adjusted from 58.000 to 32,000 in the Autumn Note. This downward adjustment of the number of first-year asylum seekers will also reduce the corresponding first-year expenditure, at least for the time being. We understand very well that the minister works in a volatile context. You do not always know when large numbers of asylum seekers will call for reception. However, my group is not satisfied with the lack of transparency that is constantly emerging about the extent to which asylum expenditure is being spent on the external trade and development cooperation budget. We have also taken note of the latest letter to the House of Representatives of 15 December 2016 concerning the written consultation on the 2016 Najaarsnota. However, my group would appreciate it if the Minister could explain briefly in this House what exactly is happening with asylum-related changes and estimates for the 2017 Budget on the basis of the latest state of affairs. To be honest, it is quite difficult for both our Chambers to exercise proper control over this, because the shifts are always determined and overtaken by the time and the budget failures or setbacks. The latter is the worst. In line with the substantial uncertainty about future asylum applications and related expenditure, it is remarkable that the Minister expects a very significant reduction in the costs of first-year reception in 2018. This also works on the coverage of these costs. My group fears that this may lead to unpleasant surprises in the future. What would happen, for example, if the deal between the EU and Turkey ceased to exist, or if the situation in Turkey became so bad that not only Syrians, but also many Turks felt so unsafe that they fled the country? I am not talking about the situation in Lebanon and Jordan, and certainly not about the possible increase in asylum seekers from African countries. How does the Minister himself see this? We can imagine the Minister wishing her successor to arrange this differently, either by making a separate budget article for asylum reception or by putting maximum amounts on the OS budget and financing the rest through general funds. The decision taken earlier this year to make the allocation of the costs of first-year reception of asylum seekers from DAC countries visible to ODA in the HGIS note is a good step. This also applies to the agreement with the Minister of Security and Justice to indicate in his budget and annual report, starting from the 2017 Budget, which part of the reception costs for asylum seekers is financed from ODA funds. We would like to hear from the Minister whether, in her view, this is also a way of better planning and avoiding cash slides to the future. Given the financial implications of major changes, we consider it important that estimates are carefully made. Now asylum spending is lower, but that does not guarantee future budgets. Why doesn't the Minister think it's bigger? Why does it not provide that unspent amounts may be attributed to emergency aid? After all, in the 2016 Spring Paper, money was brought out again as cover for the increased asylum costs at the time. These costs were covered from the space created by higher estimates of gross national income for 2017 too optimistic again. Of course, governance is forward-looking, but taking such a mortgage on the future does not make sense to my group. We would like to receive a response from the Minister. We are also, of course, looking forward to the Minister's answer to our other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u4	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the debate until later in the evening.
