ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. We have arrived at the reply of the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to one of the more enthusiastic spokesmen, Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his written answers. I thought it was a neat and clear-cut letter. The letter covers about 90% of the shipment of what I brought in in the first term. I now turn to the coverage of the open 10%. I listened very carefully last time to the State Secretary's response to my story on the amendment of Article 15ad on the transitional right for acquisition holding companies in tax units entered into before November 2011. He said he'd come back to that in the actual treatment of changing Article 15ad during the Tax Plan. I'm gonna keep an eye on that, because I had prepared a motion on that point. There can be no material retroactive effect by retiring a transitional regime afterwards. So I'm keeping a close eye on that. There is one point left for me in the debate on fiscal unity. I am very much in favour of this tax unit, let us be clear about that. When I called it a tax planning instrument, I immediately said that this has nothing to do with tax avoidance, but with the prevention of unwanted tax side-effects of intra-group action. In practice, we referred to this as a tax planning instrument. It's similar to the tax partnership when you're married, because that's what you use for your tax planning. So I didn't mean any harm. The technical open point is the 10% I have just referred to, namely Article 15ac (8). This involves avoiding abuse of the new possibilities through double loss on intra-group claims. The answer of the Secretary of State, Mr Merkies, to which Mr Merkies also referred earlier, was quite literally: "First of all, I have no signals that claims are to a large extent used outside the group, involving loss in both the tax unit and the non-attached subsidiary'. He says he doesn't receive any signals that it's being used to a large extent, but that's a misguided reason not to have to do anything about it. I have received signals that it is being used. I am not saying that this is happening to a large extent, but there is a leak in the law at this point. Now that the Secretary of State is stirring Article 15ac because of the judgments of the European Court of Justice, let him take this opportunity to close that leak. I read and understand the Secretary of State's answer on this point, but I think it is insufficient. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the legal regime for corporate tax units is supplemented and amended on the basis of case law of the European Court of Justice;]] [[whereas the government is right to propose only amendments necessary by the case law mentioned above and based on the principle that the Vpb tax unit should remain intact;]] [[Whereas the new Article 15ac (8) of the Vpb 1969 Act provides for the prevention of the abuse of new possibilities through double loss on intra-group claims;]] [[Whereas, however, the existing situation already gives rise to a leak in claims outside the fiscal unit but within the group, which leads to a double loss in the event of the write-down of such a claim;]] [[Whereas this unnecessary erosion of the tax base could logically now also be repaired;]] [[calls on the Government to close the above-mentioned loophole in the law on the basis that write-down of claims charged to tax profits remains possible but does not result in double loss,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34323-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for his written reply. I agree with Mr Van Vliet's remarks on the questions that I have also asked. In general, my concern is that fiscal policy is becoming more and more a plaything of the many legal cases that multinational companies are pursuing and with which they are targeting the European Court of Justice, occasionally with success. The budgetary consequences of the loopholes that result in the legislation are enormous. We've seen that before. I believe that we should not reward this by raising these gaps to legislation. Here too, it appears that there is uncertainty about the new possibilities of tax planning. There are undesirable consequences and tax avoidance occurs. That is why I have tabled an amendment, which has just been distributed. I propose that we have an evaluation period of at least four years from now, because we know that there is uncertainty. Then we can look back at whether the law has been effective and whether any undesirable effects have occurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	The amendment referred to by Mr Merkies has the text No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	Finally, there is still uncertainty about the budgetary consequences of the fiscal unit as a whole. I think it is good to say something about this, also because we have a much more far-reaching system than other countries. So it would be good to know a little bit more about that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the financial consequences of the fiscal unitary regime are unknown;]] [[whereas only the Dutch regime offers full fiscal consolidation and thus goes beyond such regimes in other Member States;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the budgetary implications of the fiscal unitary regime and to share the outcome with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34323-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers to the questions. I'll come back on the first term. I share Mr Omtzigt's view that it is regrettable that the gaps in corporate tax have initially been covered in the legislative proposal by increasing employers' labour costs. We would have liked to see that different. Fortunately, structural coverage does come from the Vpb domain itself. I would also like to say that the Labour Party would prefer not to repeat this course of action. Does the Secretary of State share that view? I raised the issue in the first period of time that the freedom to choose whether or not to enter a tax unit can offer the opportunity to go shopping at the expense of the taxpayer. For the record, I did not advocate imposing an overall obligation on a group to establish a tax unit for all companies belonging to the group. I did not, but that is suggested in the answers. What I have done is indeed to consider whether the choice for a tax unit can not be made less non-binding, so that there can be no intermediate shopping. For example, if a group of companies sees bankruptcy with a subsidiary, it should not be possible for that subsidiary to be removed from the tax unit, so that the parent group is relieved of the tax debts. Unlike the Secretary of State, I am not talking about corporate tax debts. Right, I'd say not, because a loss-making daughter doesn't pay Vpb anyway. I am referring to other tax debts, such as VAT or payroll taxes. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the parent company will also remain liable for tax debts other than the Vpb if a subsidiary is released, so is removed from the tax unit, and the subsidiary goes bankrupt shortly afterwards? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	You've run out of time, but this is legislation, so just finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'm done with that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his first-term answers and for the written answers. The first advantage of this law lies with multinational companies and with companies investing in the Netherlands through different subsidiaries. But the real winner of this bill is SMEs. The maintenance of fiscal unity, without limiting it, is very important for small and medium-sized enterprises. In the meantime, I understand that a court ruling no longer has any interest in a Stichting Administratiekantoor (Stichting Administratiekantoor) in the middle of the fiscal unit and that the notarial solution of the Secretary of State therefore works best for groups. I will not table the amendment I spoke about in the first term, because the Secretary of State and the judge have actually solved this problem. Then I have the only drawback of naming this law. It really doesn't get much easier. I can imagine that the Secretary of State himself is not entirely happy with that either, but it has to be that way. I agree with Mr Groot's comment on WW coverage. We had asked to list how often it was used, because the WW funds are used very often. Especially now that unemployment is falling, there is a premium left. Then you should lower the WW premium, but it's now being used to cover other holes. That's not what the bounty's for. In the eyes of the CDA Group, that is an insurance policy. That money is paid by employees to get through a period of involuntary unemployment. It's not meant for anything else. I would like to see, in the written answers to the questions on the Tax Plan, a list of how often WW funds have been used in recent years for purposes other than the distribution of WW. Finally, I would like to make a comment. There is also a tax unit called Tax Administration. That tax unit Tax Administration turned out to be able to impose a fine on itself yesterday, an RVU tax. An early retirement pension has been accidentally granted for which 52% has to be paid. Can the Secretary of State forward the order of that fine to the Chamber? We are therefore happy to receive the order of the fine imposed by the Tax Administration itself. The Secretary of State will say: the Tax Office is subject to Article 67 Awr. The tax authorities are bound to do so, but Article 67 Awr does not apply to the receiving side of the Tax Administration. I'm just asking for that decision to be made public. That's a serious question. Can the Secretary of State send that decision to the Chamber next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	This brings us to the end of the reply. It appears to me that the Secretary of State can use the rejoinder immediately. I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Van Vliet's motion on item No. 14 on double loss. I have already said during the debate that this concern has been accepted in the theoretical sense. It's true, but this isn't ahead of us with this bill. It doesn't change anything. Furthermore, there is no impression that this is to some significant extent a problem. However, it is very difficult to repair, because this really goes to the elbows in the structure of the Vpb. If we decided to implement this motion, a highly trained professional with rare knowledge in the field of e.g. avoidance and abuse would have to spend time on this. He wouldn't do anything else at the time. However, we are at our waist in Panama and you name it, and every year new judges and entrepreneurs come up with new ideas. We wouldn't be working on that. The question is not whether it is useful to tackle what could be a small leak, but is not so experienced. Theoretically, there's a hole here, but there's nothing leaking out. Mr Van Vliet is theoretically right, but the question is whether the world is getting better, namely whether this evil is worse than the average evil that the highly educated professional could close, and that is certainly not the case. If we share the view that everyone has to pay a proper tax according to the rules and according to the law, we should not put our abuse fighters and hole poets to work here; we should let them do other things. We all know in this Chamber that there is a great deal to be done about this every year. That's my plea. Mr Van Vliet is right when he says that strictly speaking it does not fully cover. At the same time, I have the clear impression that this is not structured and that this possibility is not being used significantly. We should do other things in the area of tax avoidance that we are concerned about. I therefore advise against this motion with respect for the author and his find.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Merkies, do you have a question about the State Secretary's opinion on another member's motion? It's not very common, but it's not illegal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	That happens all the time, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State says there's theoretically a hole, but nothing leaks out of there. However, I have heard something else before, namely that he is not getting any signals. Those are two different things, aren't they? So it may leak out, but the Secretary of State is not getting any signals about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr Merkies refers to one of my favorite statements: you never know what you don't know. He is right about that, but in other areas we know it and we do have those indications. There have been developments throughout the day in many areas. A whole profession is making things up all day, and we are getting signals about that in some cases. That is what we need to focus on. The IRS is pretty good at picking up signals, and here there are no signals. Here too it is theoretically true, you never know what you do not know, but it is my firm impression that this is not the best use of our resources. Moreover, I keep saying that it is theoretically true what both spokesmen have put forward here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	The Secretary of State says that this grand tax game is something that needs thinking power and he does not think it is efficient. I can't judge that, but thanks to my long-term fiscal career, I can judge that this kind of potential leaks were always closed by Finance. This is a very specific situation and one can put a very specific rule on it which does not affect an ordinary tax unit. So I'm holding on to the motion, even though I understand the Secretary of State's story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	Bon. Mr Merkies has tabled an amendment and a motion. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 13, on the evaluation. I said earlier that an evaluation is really not the best way to combat abuse. In fact, it might give the impression that we are waiting to combat circumvention until an evaluation is made. I see Mr Merkies shaking no: he does not mean that. No, he doesn't mean that, but other people shouldn't mean that. Ensuring compliance with the law is a permanent and daily task. This is done on a case-by-case basis, but if, after three years, you put all the cases considered on a pile, then you will not learn more from that evaluation than from all the individual cases already learned. It is the duty of the Tax Administration to seek compliance with the law and any elements that are not compliant. In this case, such an evaluation does not add much to that. Moreover, I do not say a bad word about the instrument evaluation in general, because sometimes you can measure social effects, for example, but here it is simply a question of whether or not there is going to be some form of different use, and we simply have to be on top of that every day. That is also my position in the direction of the Tax Administration on the mission that is felt heavy there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	Have I heard a judicum on the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	I would therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	It is a good thing that the Tax Administration does this every day, and I assume that there is lessons to be learned from it, if it is perhaps disappointing and perhaps more use is being made of unwanted tax planning opportunities. The IRS sees that. We don't see that. It would therefore be nice, in my opinion, if it were not to be a great deal of work if it were to be summarized and shared with the Chamber after four years, so that the Chamber could also look back at how things were going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u20	I have said that every spokesperson is free to ask the government again and again. After three years, I don't think it's weird to give a list of what's been discovered. But it is a bit strange, because when a certain form of abuse suddenly comes into play, we must naturally intend to close it in the subsequent tax plan, if that is feasible. That's the way it's gotta be. That is why I do not think that evaluation is adding much. In withdrawing the amendment on the moment of evaluation, I am prepared to agree to mention after four years the cases in which an attempt has been made. But of course these are the cases discovered, and that must be anonymous. It's a pretty abstract whole. I do not think that Mr Merkies or any successors of his will be very helpful. I think we should stick to the practice of looking at the cases and constantly combating abuse, and if it really turns out that there is a need for a legislative change, in whatever form, we should always try to regulate this in the Tax Plan. That is also a tradition every year, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u21	You're sticking to your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u22	I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u23	We'll continue with the motion in part no. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u24	This motion concerns the budgetary consequences, and I think this is a logical question from Mr Merkies. I told you last time you could look at it one way or the other. I've been talking about a philosophical view of the costs, and I've put them at zero. I think that the company put together is the natural situation, and I do not want to impose any additional burdens on its division. I don't think it's gonna work. I don't think it's gonna cost. However, I understand from the discussion that Mr Merkies looks at it differently and that he wants to estimate the costs from the other side. In this sense, it is nice that the Department of Finance also likes to reflect the cost of all these arrangements, from any angle. This is happening more and more, and there are also more and more thicker annexes in which we can see what costs something, and I am very sympathetic to that. Before the first deadline and also before the second deadline, I discussed with the rams whether what we are talking about here would be possible, but they call it 'unfulfilled'. I find that disappointing in the sense that I share the desire to calculate figures and make them public, but where I can't, I have to be harsh and say that. In other words, I think it is a nice appeal, but because of its feasibility I must seriously discourage it. Because what you don't know, you don't know, but what you can't do, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u25	I almost tend to deliver the tiles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u26	"Undoable" can be understood in two ways. Does it mean "it's so much work that it's unfeasible" or is it practically impossible? That makes a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u27	The latter. On the previous item on the agenda, it was a lot of work. I've been honest with you about that. I said it would be a huge amount of work, which I think we should spend that time on. I'll be honest with you about that. Here I used the word "undoable" in the sense that it is not possible to do it. Mr Groot is right to say that the extra budget for enlargement is temporarily covered by what goes through life as a 'burden on labour'. He wondered whether this could be repeated. In general, we have the rule that we first look inside the domain. I must agree with Mr Groot that this must be covered within the domain of the Vpb. That's what's gonna happen. That's the rule. At the same time, I strongly say that if the reverse occurs, so when repairs such as the fight against abuse or avoidance increase Vpb revenues, we want that money back to the Vpb. That discussion is still ongoing. Because I find one, I find the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr Secretary of State, we have a public gallery here and are doing a bit of our best to avoid terms like "Vpb."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u29	The corporation tax! The question about the parent company, I fear, is that we are getting very much into this case. Since it's not related to the bill, I imagine we're taking it out of this second term. Mr Groot can do that by asking a written question, or I can undertake to answer the question in one way or another, perhaps in a letter of motion or commitment. Since it is not related to the present legislative proposal, I can imagine that Mr Groot's haste is over and that I will simply give him an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u30	The question does, of course, relate to the doctrine of the fiscal unit. I would therefore like a written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u31	Here's to it. It is undoubtedly related to the fiscal unit, but not to its modification, which is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u32	By what date do you give the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u33	By what date... We'll find a date. There must be a responsible answer. If that's after an hour, it's after an hour. If it's after a week, it's after a week. Can Mr Groot live with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u34	Let's just say, for the notebook meeting on the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u35	Look, I'm making that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u36	Very good. I am quite right in saying that because the Chamber is sometimes promised all sorts of things that will not come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u37	What an evil thought there is about the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u38	No, no, they're based on facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u39	They asked for a list of the number of times that was taken to this jar. I'm willing to find out. I do not know whether the answer is ready or whether it is feasible, but if it is, I admit it. An intelligent question was asked about the final levy, which is not a fine. I'm going to see if there are any objections. In principle, I stand for openness, so wherever I can, I will do so. I should like to take a closer look at whether there are any legal objections to this. I don't see them now, because I thought Mr Omtzigt's reasoning was intelligent, but I'm going to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u40	I would like to be clear within a week or hear the legal objections. However, I have already explained why I do not think there can be any legal objections. It is indeed the decision at the RVU...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u41	The point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u42	... where the Secretary of State can immediately state whether he objects or not...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr. Omtzigt! The point is clear. We have a very overloaded agenda. If the point is clear, it does not need to be said three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u44	I'll find out. One of the basic questions is, of course, whether this decision exists at all. The moment of imposition may still be different, from the moment it becomes certain that you have to ram it in. It may therefore not exist, but that is what Mr Omtzigt is hearing. I undertake to provide clarity within a week or to carry out the call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u45	If there is another point that is not clear, Mr Omtzigt, you can ask for it quietly. However, I can see that the point is now clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u46	I thank the Secretary of State for the answers given. On Tuesday 27 September the vote will take place on the motions tabled, the amendment and the legislative proposal.
