ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u1	I call Mr De Vries. I say to Members that there is, of course, the possibility of interrupting, but I would like to be brief and concise, because the agenda is under considerable time pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the general consultation on 6 July, extensive attention was paid to the evaluation of the landlord's tax. We do not want to repeat this law. In any case, it seems better not to keep looking back. The economic conditions and the situation on the housing market are now drastically different from in 2011, when the Rutte I cabinet introduced the landlord levy. This levy was continued by the parties to the Spring Agreement and Rutte II.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u3	I heard a telephone, which immediately gives me the opportunity to give Mr Madlener of the PVV the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u4	That phone call must have come from an angry tenant, who now hears from Mr. De Vries that he doesn't want to look back. But of course he has to look back! In fact, he saddled all those tenants with 4% rent increase in 2013 and 2014, and they still pay those people. The PvdA has thus increased the rents with this cabinet in such a way that many tenants no longer have any money in their wallets. How can Mr De Vries say that we should not look back? We're here to look back now. How is Mr De Vries going to recover those rent increases by the PvdA in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u5	The Labour Party has already contributed a great deal to it throughout the process by adding a huge bonus to the rent. As a result, the people with the lowest incomes have noticed very little of the rent increase. In the debates we have had later, you have also noticed that the Labour Party has tabled various motions to repair unintended effects for people. These motions have sometimes reached a majority, but unfortunately have not been carried out by the Minister. The Labour Party recognises that improvements are needed in some areas. I'll tell you in a moment what our vision of the future is, how we make sure we handle the affordability of renting very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u6	A lot of people have gotten those rent increases, but are not compensated at all with rent subsidies. You're only helping a few people with that. Most people have just received a significantly higher rent, thanks to your policy. It's all gonna cost you purchasing power. The shopkeepers can sell less because the tenants have no money left. That's bad for the economy. You've raised the rents. I expect nothing less than that the Labour Party is now coming up with proposals to reduce these rents again!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u7	I didn't raise anything, Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u8	You're also in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u9	No, no, no, I'm the independent chairman here. Could you please speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u10	I assume Mr Madlener meant me. I will tell you how we intend to proceed with the landlord tax and how we see it in a broader context, also in relation to affordability. We have seen that there have been some nasty effects for people who have received rent increases and then fallen in income. We wanted to fix that. Motions have also been adopted on this subject, but they have not been implemented so far. The extra rent increases that there have been were for the people with the strongest shoulders. As far as we are concerned, they can also bear the most serious burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u11	I see that Mr Bashir is addressing Mr Madlener's urgent gestures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u12	No, Mr President, I was mostly triggered by the words of Mr De Vries himself. He started by saying that the Rutte I cabinet introduced the landlord levy. I couldn't agree more. That was a bad decision. However, this cabinet has only increased and increased the landlord's tax, while I think the PvdA's supporters also want us to get rid of that landlord's tax. It is a tax that only social tenants pay. Can't we make it easier? Can we not stop this landlord tax and taxing social tenants instead of putting all these exceptions in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u13	I think there's a period now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u14	I'm sure you've had this discussion before. Let's try not to repeat too much. Mr Bashir, I know that I say this already after your first interruption and that you are generally quite reluctant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u15	I also made a call not to look back. In general consultation, we really spent hours thinking about it. Then we had exactly the same change of words. I'm in favour of looking ahead. I would like to tell you what the Labour Party has in its election programme to show that we want to change course with the landlord levy and with the affordability of living. At the time this landlord levy was introduced, the country was in very bad shape. You know that, too. This cabinet has cut 51 billion. It had to come from all over the place. It is really naive to think that no one will notice when such sums need to be cut. The Labour Party has always tried not to put the burden on the lowest incomes. That is why we have been very committed to supplementing the rent allowance. That also worked year after year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u16	I also asked this question because of the contradiction between Mr De Vries' speech and the legislative proposal. The bill increases the landlord's tax for a lot of homes, for a lot of housing corporations. They're gonna pay more instead of less. Of course, there are also housing corporations that are going to pay less, but the landlord levy is being increased. There is therefore a contradiction between Mr De Vries' speech and the legislative proposal he is going to vote for. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u17	After the elections, we also want to change course, but now we are looking at this moment. We see that what the SP has always advocated is actually happening, namely that part of the landlord's tax is now being used as an investment incentive. We are in favour of this, because it can stimulate important things. I shall, of course, return to it in the rest of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u18	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u19	The Labour Party wants to stop pumping money around. The tax has increased the rents. This has been compensated for households with the lowest incomes by 560 million extra rent payments. We believe that we should not continue to raise on the one hand and compensate on the other. We want to ensure the affordability of living better. Despite the repair with rent surcharge, too many households have been in trouble, because the rent allowance scheme has some unreasonable limits and because the income-dependent rent increase in the event of a decrease in income has unreasonable effects. We choose to make household income play a more direct role in determining the rent. We want to do this through a rental quote system with correction factors for the quality and energy efficiency of a home. By removing rent and landlord tax from each other, there will be financial scope for transitional policies and for the re-establishment of a national housing fund, which will encourage necessary investments by corporations. We want to differentiate the income threshold under which households have access to the social sector regionally, and which in scarcity areas are somewhat higher than is currently the case, for example at €50,000. We want to make the flow easier and ensure a real connection to the free sector, by setting rent regulation, for example, above the liberalisation limit, up to 200 points. Finally, with an offer standard, we want to ensure that sufficient affordable social housing is available in all municipalities. I'm going into the bill now. Last week I argued in general consultation on the State of the housing market that the new building is far behind the housing needs. I made a passionate plea to promote the construction of enough houses. The measure to encourage the construction of cheap rental houses with a rent below the first capping limit in this law is very appealing to us. This measure gives effect to a number of motions tabled by us and will contribute to the implementation of our 100 000 housing plan submitted to the budget. There will be a deduction of €10,000 per house across the country, and even €20,000 per home in the scarcity areas. In order to avoid a budgetary gap, this will be compensated within the levy. Thus, the landlord tax becomes an investment incentive and the money ends up in the regions that need it the most. We have a further comment to make. The housing market region of Haaglanden/Midden-Holland/Rotterdam is not included in the scarcity areas. Of all nineteen recently formed regions, it is the region with by far the least investment capacity, while there is a relatively large task for new construction, replacement and sustainability. The scheme for shrinkage areas is now also open to the shrinkage regions Achterhoek and Noordoost-Friesland, which are added with motions from the Labour Party. It is also good that the period during which applications for tax reduction can be submitted for the demolition and merger of houses is extended until 21 December 2019. The implementation of our motion on the Rotterdam Zuid National Programme has led to agreement with the city council of Rotterdam on a tax discount of as much as €35,000 per house. Of course, we are pleased that our motion has helped to break the deadlock in Rotterdam, that this is now being regulated by law and that it can be built on Zuid in the short term. The WOZ value is the basis by which the landlord levy is levied. This has the effect of making the corporations in the scarcity areas, where house prices are rising sharply, pay an increasing share of that tax. Because these areas are the hardest housing problem and these corporations have less than average funding capacity, the necessary investments in these areas are likely to come under further pressure. In the scarcity areas there is also an undesirable pressure in our view for corporations to sell social housing. This problem would be easy to fix by fixing the WPA value for the scarcity areas to that of 2016. The Minister warned me about the implementation problems that such a measure could entail for the Tax Administration. Although I am not entirely convinced of this, I thought that I would make a slightly simpler solution. That is why I have tabled an amendment to fix the tax base for the World Health Organisation on the value of 2016 for the whole country. This will maintain the current shares in the levy for the future. For new rentals, the WOZ value can be taken as a starting point in the year of delivery. This measure must, of course, be accompanied by an annual adjustment of the tax base with the average change in the WMD value of corporation ownership in the Netherlands. The Labour Party welcomes the decision to increase the duty-free rate to 25 homes, which also allows small, charitative landlords to be spared. However, a large number of homes in national monuments remain for which a levy has to be paid. The Labour Party believes that we should be very sparing on social housing in state monuments. That is why we believe that these houses should be exempt. We have an amendment to that effect (34548), No. 11) submitted. We have calculated that this will generate about 12 million less in tax revenue, but this can be covered by an increase in the tax by 4. Following two motions previously adopted on the problem of low-cost private property in shrinking areas, the Minister added a deduction from the private landlord tax for properties purchased by a landlord in a part of the complex where he already owns properties. This exemption would then apply to dwellings purchased in the period 2017-2019. Together with Mr Van Vliet, I have an amendment (34548), No. (10) to ensure that the motions previously adopted by a large majority of the Chamber are carried out. We believe it is important for corporations to be able to purchase private property, rent it temporarily and then demolish it. This will ultimately help to clean up the housing stock, helping to alleviate the temporary shortage of affordable social housing and help owners of unsellable or watered homes in restructuring areas to get rid of their homes. This property is often a liability for them and sometimes makes it impossible for older residents to move to a more suitable home with care or support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u20	At the beginning of this reign, we invested a lot of money to demolish social housing in Limburg. Can Mr De Vries explain why suddenly thousands of rentals would be needed again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u21	In Limburg, too, the demand for social housing, and certainly for affordable social housing, is increasing due to economic conditions. The demand for private property, especially at the bottom of private property, is falling dramatically. By making a match between those two data, you can solve an important problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u22	Will Mr De Vries say that the corporations have to step into that hole, that they have to buy houses to buy...? I don't understand. I thought we agreed that corporations would be there for houses for people with a small wallet. Don't tell me they're supposed to be adventurers in properties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u23	Mr Van der Linde is now giving it a qualification. Corporations buy additional properties at the bottom of the private property. They can use these properties to meet the additional demand for social housing while at the same time helping the owners of those private housing to get rid of their property, not at the top price, but at a low price. They can also help these people to live in a social housing unit, allowing them to come out of debt. This cannot be resolved through other measures at the moment. In our proposal, the corporation does not have to run an additional risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u24	You have received an answer to your question, although it is probably not the answer you wanted. Is there anything more useful to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u25	I would have liked to have noticed that, according to Mr De Vries, there is a real demand for social housing in Limburg and no demand for housing. I can't reconcile that, but we might come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u26	That's what the CBS and all kinds of research offices are for, to bring that up. Let's see where I left off. From municipalities in which foundation problems play, I understand that for a limited number of residents or owners even the new fund to be set up on the basis of our motions does not offer a solution. These are households that are so far underwater or in such a financial situation that the continuation of ownership is irresponsible. They should move and get out of trouble through debt relief. In these cases, the local authorities in question ask for one with the Van Vliet/De Vries amendment to piece No. 10 similar solution. This, of course, requires the necessary research. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u27	Then I give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of... No, I see that Mr Madlener wants to ask another question. It's not a matter of course that you can, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u28	I had just asked the spokesperson of the PvdA what the PvdA is going to do about all these rent increases in recent years. At that time Mr De Vries' answer was: wait and see, because I am about to tell you. I've been listening, but I haven't heard anything about this. Those rent increases are just gonna last. All those people in social housing are still paying that 13% rent increase that they've been saddled with this cabinet period. All I've heard is we're going to invest more in new social housing. But, yes, we all know who these social rental homes are going to: to the asylum seekers. That doesn't help the tenant, does it? I therefore ask again what Mr De Vries has to say to a tenant who has received 13% rent increase from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u29	I have the impression that Mr Madlener has not listened very carefully. I told him what was in the Labour Party's election program. It says that rents must again be much more in relation to household incomes. We want to set the rent through a rental quota and ensure that households no longer pay exorbitantly high rents compared to their income. In doing so, we are fixing exactly what Mr Madlener is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u30	No, that's not gonna happen at all. All tenants of a social rental house who have had a rent increase of 13% of the PvdA pay 13% extra rent each year, still today. That's not gonna get brushed away. I am therefore asking Mr De Vries specifically: what is he going to say to all those tenants who are very many in the Netherlands who have to pay a rent increase every month and to whom Mr De Vries does not give back anything? He doesn't do anything about rent cuts. I just want to know what Mr De Vries is going to do. He can now ask the Minister to reduce the rents by 1 July. How much reduction is he going to demand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u31	I have said what proposals the Labour Party has before the elections. They're very close. I think that these are very good plans, with which all tenants, and especially those with a small scholarship, are improving. We will distribute the burden more fairly. For the short term, I have said several times this afternoon that I have tabled a motion asking the government to reduce rents if income falls. The Minister doesn't want to carry out that motion. I can't do much more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u32	I don't want to turn it into an election debate. I would like to talk about the bill now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u33	It's already an election debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u34	I will confine myself to the bill on the reduction of taxes. I know that Mr De Vries also has a great heart for sustainability. What would he say if we also created a tax reduction to adjust existing rentals to zero-on-the-meter houses?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u35	We have created all kinds of subsidy schemes to make it possible for corporations to get rid of the uneconomic top of that kind of investment. We have also set up an energy performance fee to enable the tenant to pay for the profits he makes in his household booklet in zero-on-the-meter homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u36	That is true, but we also know that if we want to achieve the ambitions of the Paris climate agreement, we really need to do something about it. Now that there is a proposal for a reduction in taxation, I would say that we should make full use of the space that this creates in order to take a step in the area of sustainability. I suppose that's what the Labour Party is for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u37	We are in favour of this, but at the moment we find the biggest problem is the rapidly rising housing shortage, and above all the shortage of affordable housing below the first capping limit. Very few of them are built in the Netherlands. The measures contained in this bill will stimulate their construction. It doesn't make you much more sustainable if you don't have a place to live. There's just really a shortage of homes right now. We also consider sustainability to be extremely important, but there are existing arrangements for this. We have also recently taken decisions to make this easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u38	Mr. Chairman. The law following the evaluation of the landlord's tax is ahead of us. In the meantime, the landlord levy has become the symbol of the non-functioning rental market. The government's rental policy has become a liability for tenants, corporations and the cabinet. There's not enough construction. The complex regulations in the rental sector complete the chaos: higher rents, fewer new buildings, more sales of social housing, a significant negative impact for the tenant and the people but waiting for a rental house. It is poignant to see how the Minister deals with these problems. In the newspaper he blames the corporations for playing for Dagobert Duck. Corporations react irritatedly and in turn accuse the Minister of not understanding the housing situation. We see the gap getting bigger and bigger over the back of the tenants. As far as the CDA is concerned, Minister Blok must stop pointing the finger at those involved in the sector and go round the table with them. The positive development of the financial positions of corporations needs to be converted into policies so that more people can get a suitable home. The landlord levy as introduced has always been a thorn in the eye of the CDA. That is why we did not agree to the housing agreement and the law introducing a landlord's tax. At the time, the CDA called on Blok to come up with an investment impulse, which would allow corporations to invest again, so that the housing market would start. And that's what we're gonna find now. As far as we are concerned, we must make the funds available to the rental sector. With this cabinet at the helm, that won't work. The proposal before us seems to be a Band-Aid to the bleeding. We are curious to hear the Minister's response to the following five parts. Point one. There will be a tax reduction for new construction. It is a pity that this tax reduction is again paid out of its own box by a generic increase in the tax. On what basis is the Minister convinced that the money is now in the right place? After all, the deduction of €20,000 per new housing unit will only end up in the scarcity areas. Are these also the areas where the corporations have too little room to invest and realise their task? The municipality of The Hague is excluded from the possibility of deduction while the task is great in The Hague. The power, however, is small. Can the Minister guarantee that the extra deduction will go wherever it is really necessary? Point two. One of the Minister's demands to be eligible for a tax reduction is that the investment should be at least two and a half times the tax reduction. We wonder whether this will work well in practice in all situations, especially in the shrinking regions and in Rotterdam-Zuid. At least €62,500 should now be spent on the demolition of a house. That seems to be a lot of money for those areas. As a corporation, you have to invest a lot to get the tax relief. That seems like a perverse incentive. Is the Minister prepared to examine, on the basis of a market survey, the actual average cost of demolition in shrinking areas and, on the basis of this, to make it easier? We are also preparing an amendment on this point. It was not possible, because of the technical complexity, to have it here already, but at least we are coming up with a change on this point. I'll get to point three. In the shrinking areas, private property purchased by the landlords during the period 2017 to 2019 is exempted from the landlord's tax for a period of five years on condition that the landlord already owns the complex. We can see from examples that this is not going to work. Is this time-limit sufficient, is five years enough? And what if the landlord doesn't own that complex? You want to have a long-term policy in shrinking areas. The CDA is in favour of the adjustment, so that this kite will actually fly. I have just been informed that the Labour Party has tabled an amendment to regulate this. I see Mr Van Vliet now raises his hand. The amendment is indeed tabled by the PvdA and Mr Van Vliet. Point four. The exemption for a number of small landlords is increased from 10 to 25 accommodation units. However, this too is a cigar from its own box for the housing corporations. Can we, for example, use the additional revenues from the higher WPA values for the additional costs of this increase? Can the Minister tell us exactly what the amount of extra revenue from the extreme World War II increases is? The World Health Organization values are rising almost everywhere and in some areas really extreme. So is the proceeds of the landlord's tax. I'd like a concrete answer. I come to my last point, point five, which is a side effect of the World Health Organization increases. In the regions where the buying market is increasing significantly, corporations also have to pay disproportionately more landlord's tax. The CDA thinks that's undesirable. The landlord's tax has been designed in such a way that the level of the levy by the WZ component is mainly dependent on the price of the market housing in the area of the social housing. In a number of areas, such as Utrecht and Amsterdam, housing prices are rising very rapidly at the moment. Since the landlord's tax is separate from the rent of the social housing, but it follows this market development through WZ value, this leads to a significantly higher tax. We cannot do that with'very annoying for the corporations', because in those areas the demand for new social housing is already relatively high. The corporations have a heavy construction task, but see that the Empire does an extra grip in the greenhouse. Does the Minister also see this distortion and does he intend to take measures to counter this undesirable effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u39	The CDA has always been against the landlord's tax. I hear Mr Ronnes now talking about an investment impulse. Can he explain in a few sentences what he means by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u40	Actually, the landlord's tax is now collected from the tenants through the corporations in order to flow from there into the state treasury. We want an investment programme with which the money from the landlord levy goes back into the housing market. We have included this in our electoral programme. This money must be used to raise the standard of living, and the subject of sustainability must be explicitly taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u41	What is a system of housing corporations other than a very extensive programme to have money available for housing? The money's already in there, so why don't these corporations just build? What's gonna change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u42	This brings us to the discussion that we had last week at the State of the Housing Market. The Authority has presented in an investigation report that improves the financial position of the corporations. There are still several corporations that cannot meet their objectives, which cannot carry out the tasks in their territory. The Authority's housing corporations warned the Minister and this cabinet: be careful to draw generic conclusions, take a good look at the effects and take a good look at the interplay of policies that may conflict with each other, thus failing to achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u43	You also have your own term, Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u44	Mr. Chairman. The Rutte I cabinet of CDA and VVD with the support of PVV came with the landlord tax, an additional tax on cheaper rentals. The Rutte/Asscher cabinet continued to do so. There would be a landlord's tax and a rent tax to close a hole of EUR 2 billion in the state treasury. Then there was a living agreement and five parties shouted because less landlord tax would have to be paid. Their joy was short-lived. In the meantime, the Rutte/Asscher cabinet has put the landlord's tax for 2 billion euros in the books from 2018. The consequences of the landlord's tax are enormous. Construction's gotten a lot less. In The Hague, for example, only 34 social housing units were built in 2014. The landlord levy has cost thousands of jobs in construction and the waiting times for the rental houses are running up. There has been less maintenance for billions, less renovation and less energy-saving measures. The rents exploded because of the landlord's tax. The income-dependent rent increase has been created to ensure that corporations can pay the extra tax. In the first two years of the landlord's tax, rents increased by almost 10%. The tenant paid a hell of a price. In six years' time, housing housing companies' prices are rising by 28.8%. In areas where the World Health Organization value is high, the price is higher. The Minister bases the levy on the World Trade Organisation value. Housing corporations in areas with an overstretched housing market have to pay more. Take Utrecht, for example. There, tenants pay 10 million extra to the landlord's tax. Take Amsterdam. There, the World Trade Organisation value increased by around 16% in 2016. Corporates from Amsterdam have to pay 30 million extra taxes. Of those 30 million, a corporation can also make rent cuts. Or 750 homes can be built from it. There is a housing shortage, but yet the cabinet chooses to increase and increase the landlord's tax, and to hold on to it. Why does the Cabinet do that? Why don't we do something about these giant waiting lists? I also wonder why the VVD still insists on this extra tax. The VVD would like to be listed as a party that relieves the burden. But nothing could be further from the truth. The flow would be triggered by the landlord levy, but little has come of it. There was a time when the VVD saw nothing in a flow levy. Thirty years ago, a member of the VVD Chamber said: "The most fundamental objection of the VVD Group is that the flow tax or rent tax is a form of consumption constraint." However, the cabinet still supports the perverse incentive, called the landlord levy. Rental prices are increased to above €710. How does the minister think tenants with a small wallet can still pay the rent? Does he realize that there are more than 1 million households in the Netherlands where half of the income is lost in housing costs? I come to the PvdA group. The PvdA had to swallow the landlord's tax, but PvdA'er Monasch was very good at it. He didn't think the perverse incentive of the landlord levy was enough. He himself proposed freezing the liberalization limit, leading to greater liberalization. Mr Duivetteijn demanded a thorough and comprehensive evaluation in the First Chamber. So that evaluation didn't come. During the evaluation that was made, the butcher had to check his own meat. Friend and enemy rejected the evaluation investigation. It is not for nothing that the Housing Union, the dome of corporations Aedes and the Association of Dutch Municipalities came up with their own evaluation. We've already debated that. What did the Minister do with that evaluation? Indeed, it follows from that assessment that there is indeed evidence that the landlord levy reduces investment, increases in maintenance and additional rent increases. It has also been said that there is no tax justification for the landlord tax, for example because only tenants of a social housing house pay this tax. If you live in a property in the free sector, you do not pay this tax via your landlord. The cabinet has mainly used its own evaluation to change the law on landlord tax. It sounds nice to give discounts and temporary extensions, but at the bottom of the line all landlords of social housing should pay the full amount of €2 billion. There's not a penny off it. Of course, shrinkage areas need to be helped and new construction promoted, but why has the cabinet not looked and looked for alternatives? Why is the windfall in the budget of more than 4 billion not being used to achieve these goals? Is the Minister prepared to be even more generous with regard to the specific problems in shrinking areas? Why doesn't he let housing corporations help homeowners who don't get their house sold? The Minister himself writes that the demand for cheaper rental houses is increasing, but that there is also a shortage of private property. Why does the cabinet not carry out the Van Vliet motion, with restrictive conditions? For three years, my group asked the cabinet to expand the tax-free base of ten homes, so that you do not have to pay a landlord's tax on a larger number of homes. We have also asked Parliament questions about this. In this way, foundations with courthouses or very small housing corporations can continue to charge affordable rents. For three years, the cabinet refused to do so, and now it appears that the border can be extended. Why is the border imposed on 25 homes when a limit for 50 homes only costs EUR 23 million? That is EUR 23 million out of a total of 1.7 billion, and I do not think that is much for the Minister's wallet. But it is a lot for 650 landlords and for at least as many tenants. Is the Minister prepared to raise the tax-free limit to 50 homes? In doing so, he also instantly reduces the bureaucratic burden, as there is less need to report. Anything the Minister now rejects and rejects as impossible will be possible in the future. When will the minister listen to tenants, social landlords and municipalities? When will the money generated by the rental sector actually remain in the rental sector? When can we expect that? When is the landlord's tax converted into an investment obligation? The question will no longer be whether the landlord levy will be abolished, but when will it be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u45	The SP and PVV agree that the rents have increased far too much in recent years and that people have too little money left to do their daily shopping. These increases are not good for the tenants, but they are not good for the economy of our country. Mr Bashir and I agree on this. The PVV wants to lower the rents, so does the SP, and I hope that we can hang out in that together. However, we do not agree that all these rental homes should be given priority to asylum seekers. That's what the SP stands for. So I ask Mr Bashir what is more important to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u46	Mr Madlener, I have to interrupt you. The light's going out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u47	I shall resume the sitting after this remarkable interruption. There was a malfunction. It all seems to be working again. For a moment, we thought we were running on emergency power, but we're not. Now that it all seems to be working again, we're just gonna keep going the way it's supposed to. Mr Bashir of the SP spoke. Mr Madlener of the PVV was interrupting him. We're just gonna pick it up again. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u48	I will put my question a little more carefully, otherwise the lights will go out again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u49	And I won't rattle the hammer too hard. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u50	Then it's gonna work. The SP and PVV can find each other in the fact that the rents have to be lowered after all the rent increases under this cabinet. Let's hope we can do that. Here's what I want to ask the SP. The SP always calls for more housing to be built, but the borders are open and there are many asylum seekers coming to the Netherlands who do not belong here at all, because they have all come through safe countries. Meanwhile, the SP keeps saying that we have to catch them all in the Netherlands. You can't build on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u51	The point is clear, Mr Madlener. Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u52	With this policy, the SP itself therefore causes the social housing market shortages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u53	It's typical again. The PVV makes an interruption and the lights go out immediately. I think that's significant. But Mr Madlener, of course, creates a false contradiction. First of all, let me remind you that the PVV was at the basis of the landlord's tax. Rutte I, which was supported by the PVV, introduced the landlord's tax. A tax that not only increased the rents, but also reduced the investment, less rentals were built. It is estimated that tens of thousands of homes were not built because the landlord's tax was introduced and had otherwise been built. I'll fight that false contradiction. Know well, even if you were to neatly close the borders and even if no one would come in, you still have waiting lists, you still have to build again. We have been advocating this for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u54	I didn't get an answer to my question. The SP always sits here with a big mouth, rightly, talking about too few social housing, but at the same time the SP lets in 60,000 asylum seekers. They'll all be in those apartments. In fact, when I tabled an amendment to end the automatic priority for those asylum seekers, the SP was against it. So you open the border, say "come all the way to the Netherlands," then there is a shortage on the housing market and you are here with a big mouth to say that everything is not going well on the housing market. I find it a little easy and I haven't heard an answer to it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u55	Would you mind getting a little more friendly? It could be a little quieter. Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u56	Mr Madlener should first get to know the facts. Asylum seekers don't end up in social housing. They're gonna be in an asylum center. Refugees who are granted the right to remain here because they are recognised as refugees are entitled to a social housing. Still, it's not all the rentals that get out. But let's say that no fugitive would join us, we still have waiting lists. How did those waiting lists get here? These are due, among other things, to the landlord tax that the PVV voted for under Rutte I, which means that so little investment is now being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u57	Mr Bashir asked the Minister to raise the tax-free rate of 25 homes to 50. I read in the Minister's reply that this costs EUR 23 million. What is Mr Bashir going to pay for that? What's his idea on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u58	For example, from the windfall. It is more than EUR 4 billion. On the other hand, the 23 million will not even stand out. But we're against the whole landlord's tax anyway. If you abolish it and use half of it to lower the rents, you can use the other half to build homes. This results in VAT, income tax for construction workers and income tax for companies. You'll earn a lot of money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u59	It is good that Mr Bashir says that, but is he going to come up with a concrete proposal for cover? Because yes, you may want to, but how is he going to concretely incorporate it into a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u60	Financially, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u61	In the Tax Plan we have covered a reduction in the landlord's tax. Eventually, we want to get rid of it. I worked that out in the Tax Plan. We propose to increase the duty-free rate from 25 homes to 50. That indeed costs EUR 23 million, but we are not going to cover it. We believe that this can be paid out of the windfalls and a windfall is nothing other than that too much tax has been levied in recent times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u62	Just a little while longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u63	I'm sorry, we thought Saint Nicholas had already left for Spain, but it doesn't seem that way, when I hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u64	Mr Ronnes can make it a caricature, but a windfall in the state's budget is nothing other than that too much tax has been levied. People have paid way too much tax. That's why there's a windfall. So you can pay the 23 million euros out of that windfall. That's taxpayers' money, not the state's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u65	That's how you got to the end of your input. Then I can give the floor to Mr Van Vliet, and not for half a minute, as usual, but really for a contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A substantive contribution is usually entrusted to me, you know. Mr. Chairman. The latest Aedes benchmark for housing corporations showed that the sector has once again managed to save significantly on operating costs. The golden cages of the past are broken open. That's good news. As far as I'm concerned, that's what the corporations deserve. A prominent factor in the picture of the benchmark is the landlord levy. The corporate directors have no influence on that. They just lost that money. There is very broad agreement in the social domain that the landlord's tax has a restrictive effect on new building investments. This hampers prosperity and the housing of the people. On the other hand, skimming the corporations reduces the risk of directors playing real estate tycoon with money destined for tenants. On the other hand, if the rack is out of corporations in terms of austerity and they have difficulty in coughing up the landlord's tax, they will proceed to further rent increases in order to cover those costs. Those rent increases lead to higher rent increases again. This way, the pumping of money stays in place. Of course, this minister is a successful minister and he contributes his extra EUR 1.7 billion a year to the Prime Minister's wallet. We also know how it works: that money, the 1.7 billion, has already been spent by most political parties in their election programmes and on matters other than social housing. However, if there is so much consensus among all the social parties involved on the negative aspects of the landlord's levy, then I call on all parties to remain in dialogue with each other. We cannot ignore future developments in such an important sector in this arena. The next item is the evaluation of the landlord levy. Moreover, I wonder why the Minister did not at the time choose the term'rental levy', which is now just about everyone in the northern hemisphere except the undersigned. I've heard it many times today: landlord's tax. But it really says "rental tax" in the law. Today's biggest objection is that all the proposed changes are financed by an increase in rates: the well-known cigar from its own box. I must honestly say that the changes do contribute to more tailor-made work. There is a huge regional diversity in the Dutch housing market. Customization and commitment are the magic words for this. That is precisely why I have tabled an amendment and a motion with Mr De Vries of the PvdA today. The Van Vliet/Albert de Vries amendment to item No. 9 is about customization for shrinking areas. The governments there and the housing corporations are eager to tackle the waiting lists, precisely by filling in the core task of corporations, namely renting cheap homes to people who are not themselves able to meet their living needs. It doesn't matter whether a corporation builds new or acquires rented housing by buying it on the private market, as long as it is used as a rental house below the liberalisation limit. Shrink is terrible. You can't wash away shrinkage, like you can't brush away shrinkage areas from the map of the Netherlands. You can try to mitigate the social consequences of shrinkage with joint efforts through customization. The Van Vliet/Albert de Vries amendment contributes greatly to this. If we can make a business model profitable by enabling corporations to buy vacant private buildings at very low prices..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The waiting lists are being addressed and the decay is being countered. The latter has a positive effect on the value of the existing real estate of the corporations in shrinking neighbourhoods. We therefore propose to set the implementation period from 1 January 2017 to five years and the rental period to a maximum of twenty years, before these buildings are finally demolished. This provides real breathing space on the housing market in shrinking areas. It is a good thing that these experiments are also fully in line with the results of the parliamentary survey on housing corporations, namely "do not stand still and continue to experiment with social housing as long as you do not get off the basic path: the rental of social housing." That is what this amendment is about. The Minister has removed two previous motions from my hand in the amendments now proposed with a very small touch. Complexes in which the corporation already owns may be bought up for three years. Well, the only thing I hear from the regions is that there are hardly any such situations. The motions of October 2015 and February 2016 were supported by a letter of fire from all five colleges of Deputy States of the shrinking provinces. Well, the motion was adopted by 95 votes in favour in October and 93 votes in favour in February. The CDA later indicated that it was a mistake to vote against. I hope, on behalf of my colleague, Mr De Vries, that our amendment will receive the same warm interest from the Chamber. I would also point out that it is very unfortunate that we now need an amendment to have a motion adopted by two-thirds majority. It is very disappointing that a substantive motion is apparently worthless and simply not carried out by the minister responsible, even if I do not get to his 1.7 billion euros. I would like to discuss with Mr De Vries whether the motion on the foundation problems in certain municipalities can be discussed in the second term. Of course, this also applies to regional and even local diversity. Foundation is literally the basis of social housing. Of course, I do not only have an eye for shrinking areas, because elsewhere too, we can help pragmatically, hence my cooperation with Mr De Vries on this issue. There is a major problem with the WOZ value as the basis for the landlord's tax. I heard colleagues Ronnes and De Vries on that too. Due to the overheating on the housing market in some parts of the Randstad, the landlord's tax is paid by the corporations operating there. Increasing savings on operating costs and increasing the rents will stop at once. How does the Minister see this problem and what can he do? Finally, the interface between the landlord tax and corporate tax. On the one hand, the landlord's tax as a non-accountable tax is a deduction from the tax profit, which reduces the Vpb to be paid, the corporation tax. But on the other hand, discounts on the landlord's tax will naturally lead to a lower deduction in the area of profits. The cigar from our own box, which we are talking about today, has also been smoked at a rate of 25% in the Vpb for a quarter. Ladies and gentlemen, the cigar from its own box has already been smoked for a quarter. As a cigar fan, it hurts me to get a cigar that's already been smoked for a quarter. I therefore urge the Minister to implement quickly the motions adopted by myself and Mr Groot on corporation tax and transfer tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u67	I see Mr Madlener standing at the interrupting microphone and I hope that this time the consequences will be less disastrous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u68	I hope so with you. Mr Van Vliet is right to be very concerned about the shrinkage areas. He made the suggestion to have vacant properties bought by social landlords. But the reason for the shrinkage in those areas is not that it is bad living there, but the lack of paid work There is too little work or there are too few schools to build a good life there. Of course, you could also rent those vacant houses privately. So the problem of shrinking areas is not so much solved. In fact, I see another problem emerging. Left-wing parties such as the SP sometimes call for asylum seekers to move into those shrinking areas. Of course, this does not help these shrinking areas either. I do not think that it makes people in shrinking areas happy as corporations buying up homes and then filling up with asylum seekers. Does Mr Van Vliet see this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u69	I myself live in a shrinkage area, in Parkstad Limburg. There are waiting lists for social housing. Those waiting lists are also there when you cross out all the status holders. Status holders are asylum seekers who already have a permit; so you need to find a home for that. You may disagree with that, but that's a legal fact. If you cross out all that imaginary, there are still waiting lists for social housing in South Limburg. Corporates do not have enough homes and themselves, together with local authorities, indicate that there is a solution where the knife cuts on both sides. If the corporations buy up those vacant housing for up to €40,000 each and provide a new shower and a new kitchen for people looking for a social home, so housing with a rent up to the liberalisation limit, then that knife cuts both sides. It is not good for those homes to be empty, because then there will be decay. For the owners of houses that they can no longer lose, the knife cuts on three sides, because even those owners are finally taken out of the wreck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u70	But isn't it meant to be followed by asylum seekers? Because you often hear that from left-wing parties and that would of course be even more fun for those shrinking areas. If all asylum seekers also make the living environment worse, people will not be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u71	I understand Mr Madlener's point, but in the discussions I myself had with the authorities in the shrinking provinces, the word "status holders" has not been mentioned at all. That is all I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u72	Mr. Chairman. No one likes to pay taxes, not even corporations. The annual rental charge, without intermediates, amounts to 2 billion in 2018. I understand that corporations are screaming murder and fire. The tenants would be the victims, there would be no money left to build, the viability would be under pressure. If I were a tenant, I'd be worried about all those scary stories, too. But, we've had that tax for three years now, and you can't say the corporations are poor. In fact, they have never been so rich and they have never made so much money, namely 5.5 billion. I repeat, five-and-a-half-billion. That's more than the entire budget of the national police. That's more than the tax relief we've given hardworking people. 5.5 billion is the financial result of the housing corporations in 2015. And then no profit on paper, stuck in brick, no: rent income minus expenses. If you count the increase in value on paper, it's even over 13 billion. And then there is the investment capacity that the Minister of Summer had calculated: the corporations can easily invest 37 billion and thus build 250,000 really cheap homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u73	Suddenly I see a lot of movement at the interrupting microphone. We'll start with Mr. Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u74	I'll try to keep it short. You're used to it from me. I agree with Mr Van der Linde's comment on the profits of corporations amounting to 5.5 billion. This is linked to two very difficult concepts: solvency and liquidity. Solvency is the ability you have and liquidity is the number of cents you have in cash to pay bills and salaries. If you don't have the money in cash, it'll stop pretty quickly and the bank will say to a corporation, "What do you want?" Over 5.5 billion profits, corporations still have to pay corporation tax. That concept of profit is very close to commercial profit. That would therefore mean that they would have had to pay around EUR 2.5 billion, EUR 2 billion or EUR 1.5 billion in corporate tax, but it is a grab nozzle of a few million. How is that possible? Why is that so far apart when they would have booked that profit hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u75	Those are just the figures from the Sectoral Image. If you look at page 36............................................................................................................................................. Even stronger, if you have to express it in cash, it's probably even higher, because on paper there was still a write-off. So here we are talking about hard cash, just money on the shelf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u76	I can remember a round table of our committee spokesmen with all the relevant civil society bodies. All these agencies, including the builders and the capitalist companies, said that there is now too little bacon on the bones of the corporations to just rag and make investments. That doesn't just fall out of the sky, does it? It's not like you used to have bags of money falling out when you open the door, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u77	Exactly that round table was the reason for the minister to have Cortec calculate what corporations can raise in money, capital in the market. He showed us that neatly by the congregation. The list is by my chair. 37 billion can be withdrawn from the market. You shouldn't do it all at once, because then it becomes a bit of a mess and then you don't find any construction companies either. 37 billion stands ready: 250,000 affordable homes. That's beautiful, isn't it? But they won't. Then you can say that there has to be an investment programme or an investment impulse, but housing foundations are by definition there. Those are the investment programmes, the jars or the funds that are meant to be built. But they won't. You can put a fund in there, but then the money stays behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u78	I also read that the corporations have made 5.5 billion profits. The image that the corporations are hugely rich already exists. They invest in ships in Rotterdam, in Maserati's and you name it. You know the top salaries, too. It is strange that this cabinet has given these wealthy corporations the opportunity over the past few years to increase the rents considerably. Because that's citizens' money. That is what you are allowing the citizens' corporations to take away with all these rent increases: 13% as much as in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u79	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u80	Through the chairman. Why are you giving these corporations together with the PvdA...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u81	Through the chairman, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u82	Why do the government parties give PvdA and VVD these corporations, despite the fact that they are so rich, so much space to re-exercise the citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u83	I've had this wallet for almost three years now. For almost three years, I've fought hard for it and worked hard to get those corporations back to their core task. They just have to offer affordable houses again for people with a small wallet. We have introduced the appropriateness test. Everyone is hoping for that again, but it is simply aimed at giving people with a small wallet a home for less than €600 per month. It's gotta be possible! There is lobbying and pulling on all sides to get us off that, but I am not going to let that happen. That was our objective. That we then ask people with a high income to pay a slightly higher rent. We do not send them away, but we ask them to pay a slightly higher rent. I take it for granted, because that means that eventually homes will become available for those with a lower income. We've been working on that. I worked hard for that for three years. I'm not gonna let that slip out of our fingers again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u84	That's not true at all. It's not like only high-income people got a rent increase. All tenants of the corporations have received higher rents. That was the deal: you were going to raise the taxes for the corporations and the corporations charged it in the rents through rent increases. It's the people who pay it. And now, as spokesperson for the VVD, you say that these corporations don't need it at all, because they make billions of profits. But people pay for it. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u85	We know what a difficult coalition we have worked in. If I have to give credit for something, it is for the fact that Mr De Vries has ensured that the rent surcharge has been greatly increased. He just mentioned those numbers. We pay more than 4 billion in rent for the people who really need it. Those are the people with the little wallet. People with an income of €18,000 to a maximum of €21,000 per year have been spared in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u86	The comment on appropriate allocation challenged me to say something, but I will not do so, because it is not now part of the debate. I would like to address Mr Van der Linde on the same muscle language he used when it came to the financial position of the corporations. Indeed, the corporations are doing better financially than before. They have more room for manoeuvre, but the Authority has expressly warned housing corporations that this should not be generalised. There is also a need to look closely at the securities for corporations where this is not the case. And there are. The report proves that there are corporations that are unable to meet their requirements. What does Mr Van der Linde want these corporations to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u87	I'm fighting that image. The foreword of the Sectoral Image states that the Authority considers housing corporations can and will need to be invested more. She indicates by numbers that the rent can be reduced, built and preserved. That's how much money there is. The Social Housing Guarantee Fund says the same thing, albeit with a different purpose, because that simply wants the collateral to be maintained. Both regulators, although I cannot call them that, have said: there can and there needs to be more investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u88	When you read through that report, you read that the supervisor explicitly says that you cannot draw general conclusions about it and that there are also corporations that cannot meet their tasks. It also points out that the policy instruments that have been introduced in recent times could stiflingly work against each other, thus failing to achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u89	On page 61 of the report you will find maps of the Netherlands showing where there is and where there is no money. That is exactly the bill we are discussing today. We are looking at where we still have some customization to do. I will come back to this in a moment, because we are not going to deliver customization to every municipality, but we are going to do it on the regions, on a bit in the Achterhoek, on a bit in Friesland, on Rotterdam-Zuid. That's where it needs to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u90	Mr Ronnes has a short afterburner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u91	In my second term, I shall return to the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u92	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u93	We also read that Sectoral image and see those numbers. At the same time, we see that they do not automatically lead to construction activities. Mr van der Linde says that there is no need for planning at all, that there is no need for pressure at all and that the corporations should just start. Just noting that there is money and then not facilitating that the money is spent where it is needed, for example by sitting down well with the municipalities so that plans really come off the ground doesn't work, of course. It's not just the money whether or not it can be built. It's not happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u94	No, and that's what we call the landlord's tax. If the money isn't used, we'll just pull it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u95	That's odd. You are going to explain to all citizens in the Netherlands that there is money and that there is a great need for housing, also affordable, but that we are taking the money again because parties cannot find each other. Do you want the citizens in the Netherlands to explain?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u96	Yes, because I would rather spend the money on the police or on care or on tax relief for hardworking Dutch people than on the shelf with the corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u97	Mr De Vries once more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u98	So the VVD says: because the corporations and the municipalities can't find each other, let's get those waiting lists up and let's wait for those people. I find that odd.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u99	I hope that the private sector will step in and build a lot of beautiful, affordable free sector rentals, because we really have been helped by that. Let's face it, one in three homes in the Netherlands is a social rental house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u100	It's getting more and more inimitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u101	It's becoming more and more an election debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u102	If you have money as a housing corporation, it'll be taken away from you. If you are a multinational, the tax will be reduced for you, but a housing corporation that stands up for social tenants will make it impossible to build homes. Let's go back to the evaluation. COELO says there is less investment, less maintenance and less sustainability. My question to Mr Van der Linde is therefore why he is not looking at this evaluation. Why doesn't he just make sure that housing corporations can rebuild?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u103	We have one debate after another on exactly this subject. Our thesis is: if the corporations do not do so, at least give the private sector the space and, above all, the building land. That's what we've been working hard on before: making land available. Why is there so little construction? Corporations have ground. In Amsterdam there is quite a lot of construction, but beautiful plots in the middle of the city are set aside because the corporations do not want to build it. Then exorcise them. I mean, it's all fucked up anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u104	This debate has been held very often. That's why I'm trying to bring up facts, namely COELO's investigation. It says precisely that the landlord levy has reduced investment. That's why I'm naming it. When I listen to Mr Van der Linde, it turns out that the VVD is in favour of removing money from public and semi-public institutions. If you're a multinational, the tax will be reduced for you. The hardworking people the VVD's talking about, they rent too. They're tenants, too. If you live in a social rental house, you can pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u105	I am trying to conduct this debate on the basis of facts. The facts are simple: despite the landlord's tax, 5.5 billion remains last year. What kind of investment capacity? The money's there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u106	This is going to be a repeat of moves. Mrs. Voortman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u107	Mr Van der Linde ignores what, for example, the Authority says housing corporations, namely that you should not think that all this money can be spent immediately. Mr Van der Linde says: let the free sector build. But the free sector can do that already, can't it? Surely it is not the case that corporations prohibit it, or have the enormous power to ban the construction of the free sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u108	No. We've talked about that before. The problem in the Netherlands is the available building land. In the Netherlands are the most beautiful places. Take the old airport Valkenburg. That's where you can start building tomorrow. You'll have beautiful locations close to the dunes. You don't even have to build in the dunes, not to start that discussion. In the middle of Amsterdam there is another naval site that awaits redevelopment. There are many more examples. We need building land. The sad thing is that a lot of aldermen in the Netherlands stay on that land and have a earning model. They need to release that land now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u109	I agree. Lands that are available for construction should be able to be built. However, we cannot blame the corporations for this. If corporations own land but can't build on it now, it's because of the reduced investment capacity. If Mr Van der Linde wants to build corporations too, he must ensure that the corporations have more investment capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u110	So Mrs Voortman is now presenting a non-fact, because the fact is that 37 billion can be invested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u111	Mr Van der Linde, you were still making your speech. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u112	I'm not even at a third, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u113	We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u114	Good. I had a string here. Do the corporations still invest in cheap houses and sell their expensive houses in the meantime? Maybe they'll catch up with the isolation they promised? Do they carry the heart by hand in that one harrowing case of the gentleman who earns €18 a month too much or too little for the home of his choice? No. Despite all their profits, the corporations are failing in their public tasks. They do not build for the target group, but complain about appropriate allocation. Aedes, the corporate lobby club, has been promising me for three years now that more will be built next year. However, I do not see it. The corporations do not achieve the agreements they themselves have made in the national energy agreement either. This is about phasing out bad energy labels and average label B in 2020. We're just being told it's gonna be 2023. Not a word of apology, but an Aedes chairman who is wildly beating around the Volkskrant and screaming out our minister in a tasteless and disrespectful way. Perhaps the Minister would like to explain where that tirade came from and what would have been lied, but I do not see it. Profit is profit, energy agreements are energy agreements and building promises are building promises. Against this background, we are talking today about the assessment of the landlord tax, because not all corporations are equally rich and not all corporations have the same challenges. It's obvious to adjust a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u115	Mr Ronnes, for a brief and concise interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u116	It seems that the VVD has dug itself into a shooter's pit, but it's important to come out and see what's really going on. During the general consultation on energy saving, I asked the Minister whether the areas in which small-investment corporations are located might be lagging behind the sustainability objective for 2020. At that time, the Minister did not have that information ready. He promised me he'd come back with a reaction. I have the same question for you, because you say that there is sufficient investment capacity. In practice, however, you can see that it is simply not there. My question to you is therefore how should the corporations continue to have insufficient investment capacity to meet the 2020 target, inter alia through the landlord levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u117	Before you answer, I would once again appeal to all Members to intervene more briefly. I am happy to allow interruptions and I am not going to kill the debate, but I am going to help a little, because there is still a lot on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u118	The corporations are in a connection and that's what we call Aedes. In this context, in the National Energy Agreement, they undertook to be on an average energy label B by 2020. If they say they're not gonna make it, do we have to solve their problems? They can work together. They can borrow money from each other. They can set up housing companies together. They can do all kinds of things. They're free to do that, but they won't!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u119	Mr President, briefly. We are getting signals that there are corporations that are really stuck and aren't moving forward. I would ask the VVD to open its eyes to this and also to pay attention to the real problems experienced by corporations in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u120	Perhaps we should increase the landlord's tax further and redistribute it in that way! Mr. Chairman. In 2014, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Housing Corporations confirmed what we already knew at the time of the cabinet formation: there was too much money floating around in the sector. And that didn't make a tenant any better. Too much expense was made. Money was used for commercial adventures and there was always money for living. In practice, that was the director's fun stuff. That party's over. Corporates should no longer invest outside their core business and should only allocate their social housing to the target group. The VVD found and finds the landlord levy in this palette a useful and necessary intervention, designed to make corporations work more efficiently and to prevent distortions of competition. Let's not forget that corporations got their money out of the public pot. It comes from subsidies, guarantees, the 1992 brutality operation, reduced land prices and low rents. I had expected that the corporations would regain their pride after the parliamentary survey, their pride in their social task. I had hoped for leadership in sustainability, because it will have to come mainly from this sector. And I had hoped for creativity in all these tasks. As long as the sector is failing in all these areas, we know a better destination for all these billions. The VVD sees the landlord tax rise rather than decrease in the coming years. However, it is important to adjust the landlord's tax on a number of points. First of all, the VVD has never been happy with the fact that private landlords are also being attacked. They haven't been part of the mess with the corporations. They also do not benefit from the cheap WSW loans with a government guarantee. We are therefore pleased that the exemption from the landlord's tax is increased from the first 10 to the first 25 homes, because the number of landlords who have to pay the tax is halved from 3,200 to 1,600. This includes not only commercial investors, but also courtyards and foundations that are not classified as an approved institution. I had never actually heard the SP on this subject before, which is undoubtedly my fault, but I would very much like to take part in a further increase to 50 homes. In addition, we would have liked to focus on housing in areas where houses are needed. For new rentals in scarce areas there will be a tax reduction. That was part of the Van der Linde/Monasch motion. In the same motion we also arranged for small apartments in the regions of Amsterdam and Utrecht to be free of charge. People may know that I was born in Rotterdam-Zuid. I am personally pleased that we now have a solid package of measures for demolition and new construction, up to €35,000 per house. I have been surprised for years that the last CDA Minister for Living set up a National Programme Rotterdam Zuid, but did not put any money into it. Talks don't fill holes. We're putting that right now. We have also looked favourably at the regions outside the Randstad, where customisation is sometimes needed. The VVD would like to stress that the landlord levy, no matter how high or low it may be, is not an administrative kneedgum or political hobby glue for all kinds of local applications. We can solve some of the problems that are of national importance, but we do not feel that we should let go of the lobby and sit in the chair of all the aldermen in the Netherlands every year. I therefore await the Minister's response to all the amendments that have been tabled today, covered and uncovered. By this explicit remark, the VVD considers that there is a weighted package that it could agree to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u121	Mr. Chairman. If you don't turn off the light, I'll try to behave nicely. This is a subject that is politically not the most exciting, but it affects a huge number of people directly, namely the rent they have to pay. There are very good corporations and very bad. Usually you can see from the Director's salary about which corporation your corporation belongs to. The billions have been wasted on us today, and the profits are going to blow the whistle on the average corporation, so let me put it this way, so we absolutely do not have to feel sorry for the corporations. However, we must feel sorry for the tenants, because they pay all those profits. The rent increases of this cabinet have made all the records. 4% in 2013, 4% in 2014, 2,5% in 2015 and 2.1% this year, a total of 13.19%. Those rent increases pay the tenants every year, because it is an increase on increase. A number of people are somewhat compensated for with a high rent surcharge, but most people are not compensated. Most people pay a much higher rent. That's not good for the wallet of a lot of Dutch people, but it's not good for our economy either. And we see what happens to that money: it disappears into the big pockets of all those corporations. It is true that the PVV under the Rutte I cabinet has allowed a start to be made with a landlord tax, but at the same time it was arranged that the rent increase for people with an income of up to €43,000 would be zero over inflation. The money needed for this would then come from the fat pockets of those corporations. But no, the Rutte II cabinet, consisting of the PvdA and the VVD, said: we are going to increase that amount and also increase the rent increases. It's the tenants who pay for it. We are now debating the evaluation of the landlord levy and we are hearing about billions of profits at the same time. That's why it's time we started lowering the rents again. My group tabled a motion on 13 March 2013 asking the government to refrain from any rent increases on top of inflation. A month later, we tabled a motion asking the government to refrain from all rent increases over inflation. A year later, in 2014, we asked the government in a motion to waive the landlord's tax and to reverse all related income-related rent increases. Another year later, on 8 October 2015, I tabled a motion asking the government to maximise the rent increase for non-liberalised rentals at inflation level as of 1 July 2016. We have been tabling motions for years to get the rent rise off the job, not to let the corporations make all those profits and to reduce the landlord's tax, which the tenants pay and which will now rise to 2 billion. As far as we are concerned, the landlord levy will be cut from EUR 2 billion to EUR 1 billion, with the remark that the reduction of EUR 1 billion in the tax on corporations will be returned to the tenants at 100%. So a rent reduction, in that respect we agree with the SP. However, they are the same corporations, which, now that the priority system for asylum seekers is off the table, are calling out: we are going to continue to do so; we are going to hand out our homes, which are paid by all the hard-working Dutch people, to asylum seekers again with priority! That's the policy of this cabinet. That's PvdA and VVD. The Netherlands has suffered from this and we are going to reverse that in the coming period. I shall table a motion on this subject in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u122	Mr. Chairman. I'll drop in with the door: D66 is still behind the landlord's tax. As a result of the income-dependent rent increase, the corporations receive extra money and the tax has been paid off. Moreover, in recent years, the corporations, Mr Van Vliet also said, have significantly cut salaries and operating costs, EUR 400 million in two years. It is clear from the evaluation figures that the landlord levy did not lead to too little investment space. There is room for both new construction and for the sustainability of the housing stock. With the current legislative amendment, the rules will be further improved. We can therefore wholeheartedly support this change. We welcome the subtractions that become possible, for example for investments in Rotterdam-Zuid. That's what it takes. There is also a clear challenge in the shrinking areas. Perhaps the most important thing is that adding affordable rentals is a bitter necessity. We understand that the deduction is charged with 36,000 affordable rentals, to be built over a period of five years. Of course, that is far from enough. Given that this is the core task of the corporations and that local agreements are made in the housing visions, we assume that the corporations will use sufficient investment power in the coming years to actually build these houses. Another important task for which no deduction becomes available is the sustainability of the built environment. GroenLinks, among others, has asked to include sustainability in this bill and to introduce a discount scheme. D66 also considers sustainability to be a very important issue. However, like the Minister, we do not choose to use a discount scheme for this purpose. Making that deduction possible would only result in an increase in the landlord's tax for all corporations. However, we would like to look closely at the instruments that we are already using to help the corporations to make them more sustainable. According to D66, profits can be obtained from the Fund energy saving rental sector (FEH). We read that there is currently only one application to that fund, a fund of EUR 75 million. We hear from the sector that corporations can attract much cheaper financing for their investments than from that fund. As a result, most of these EUR 75 million seem to remain unemployed. That is a shame, especially in view of the enormous task that exists in the built environment and the objectives we have agreed with each other in the energy agreement. We would like the Minister to use the fund in a different way. For example, we are thinking of a discount scheme for corporations that want to improve homes with a label F, G or H to a much higher label. This is a suggestion. If we shape this in such a way that attention is paid to regional differences, I am thinking of housing stock, but also of the investment capacity that has been involved a number of times today. Taking investment capacity into account is important to us. If we don't do that, it won't be effective and it won't solve the problems. The corporations that have the biggest tasks also generally have the least investment capacity. Perhaps it is an option to do it in a similar way as with the deduction for the new construction of affordable homes. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he thinks this is a good idea to give an extra boost to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u123	Mr. Chairman. The rental market's jammed. In large cities, it can take a decade to qualify for a social housing. In the coming cabinet period, 150,000 social housing units will have to be built to meet demand. Ensuring good housing is one of the key tasks of the government, as laid down in Article 22 of the Constitution. That makes it all the weirder that this cabinet has put the blunt axe in the social rent. The rents of the lowest incomes increased by 9.5% during this cabinet period and the share of cheap rental homes in the total stock decreased by 10%. The landlord levy plays a major role in this. With this tax, the Minister takes a big hit from the greenhouse of housing corporations every year. The minister recently accused the housing corporations in the Algemeen Dagblad of greed and a Dagobert Duck complex. The Minister can't be denied any guts. In recent years, the housing shortage has continued and the energy saving targets are not likely to be met. The Minister sees it happen and looks at it. Lowering the landlord's tax by giving discounts could encourage corporations to build more cheap and energy-efficient social housing. The Minister's proposal is a step in this direction. There will be a tax reduction for new construction, but it should not cost the treasury a polished nickel. GroenLinks has doubts whether this discount will therefore lead to sufficient new rentals. The Minister assumes that this will provide 6,200 new homes per year. Over the next four years, this will be less than 25,000 homes, insufficient to meet demand. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there are therefore at least discounts on the landlord's tax which lead to a reduction in the revenue from the tax. Only if we, the government, are really prepared to make funds available for the construction of new homes can we expect the corporations to take the glove seriously and get to work. However, the Minister has indicated in all possible keys that he does not want to pay a penny to solve the problems in the housing market. Unfortunately, therefore, such a solution will have to wait for a new cabinet. I would like to use this debate to make some proposals to take steps in the right direction. I will start with the proposal to include the reduction of taxes in the transformation of vacant offices and other utility buildings. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are not going to unnecessarily build new neighborhoods, while there are existing buildings that could be transformed into dwellings. Aedes has also indicated the desirability of opening up the levy reduction to this end. I have therefore tabled an amendment to open up the new national tax reduction for new construction to transformation. In addition, I am preparing an amendment to continue the already existing tax reduction for transformation, which expires on 31 December 2017. In this way, we want to encourage the initial use of existing buildings in the creation of new rental homes. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to these proposals. It is GroenLinks a thorn in the eye that the agreed goal of average energy label B in the rental sector is not likely to be met. Energy savings in the residential environment can make an important contribution not only to combating the climate crisis, but also to reducing the energy bill for tenants. That is why GroenLinks proposes to create a modest tax reduction of €5,000 to make a rental house energy efficient. I have also tabled an amendment to this effect. Both this tax reduction basis and my amendment on opening up to transformations is new. Hopefully it will make the best possible use of the budget for the reduction of taxes. The more it is used, the more transformation, new construction and energy saving we can achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u124	I see an interruption by Mr Van der Linde of the VVD, I think exactly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u125	Mrs Voortman and I agree on the need for a label B. My question is about cover. If you do €5,000 tax reduction for every renovated property, and if you want to refurbished all the properties to B, there is no basis to deduct anymore. In other words, the levy must come from somewhere else. How are we going to do that if we are going to make all our homes more sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u126	We would prefer that we no longer have a landlord's tax at all or that we get less landlord's tax. Every reduction is one. The Minister's proposal involves a tax reduction for more social housing. We say: let us at least ensure that it can also be spent on sustainability. So I'd say,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u127	But then Mrs Voortman means that the tax reduction is not covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u128	No, I would suggest that the tax reduction that we now have can also be spent on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u129	I want full transparency. GroenLinks' proposal means that housing corporations that are not sustainable will pay more landlord's tax. For them, the rate is increased to keep the total yield at 2 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u130	Corporates that do not participate in the construction of houses indeed pay the tax reduction for corporations that do. As far as we are concerned, it must be made more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u131	Then it's a cookie of your own dough. Housing corporations will have to raise 2 billion to pay the landlord's tax. Here and there they get a discount, but GroenLinks wants to remove the money from other housing corporations. Why isn't the GroenLinks group pulling up with the SP? We want to get rid of the landlord's tax, so for all housing corporations. Then they can reduce both the sustainability and the rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u132	GroenLinks also wants to do something about the landlord tax. We do not want this levy at all, or otherwise at least much less, but now we have another proposal before us. It is now a question of reducing taxes. We can put forward a proposal to abolish the landlord's tax, but that is probably not going to work. Let us then see how, within this legislative proposal, we can achieve as much as possible in terms of more social housing and more sustainable housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u133	GroenLinks wants it, but there is another proposal on the table now. I can't rhyme with that. If Mrs Voortman does not want a landlord's levy, she must put forward a proposal to abolish it rather than increase it for housing corporations that are not sustainable. Eventually, the tenant has to pay for it. This hits the tenant's wallet and it already pays a lot, because the rents have risen tremendously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u134	You have the idea of the landlord tax. The SP and GroenLinks agree that it has had very nasty effects. Unless Mr Bashir proposes an amendment to solve the 2 billion problem, I do not see how we can deal with it now. You can look at the bill we're dealing with right now or you can say you're against everything. I choose to try to improve things within this bill. Maybe that's the whole difference. We agree on the substance of the harmful effects of the landlord's tax, but we do not achieve anything with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u135	I had the impression you were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u136	That's right. I have one page left, but I do have a pretty big font. There is money in part of the housing corporations that could be invested in new homes or energy savings, but that money is often not in the right place. The scarcity areas in which homes have a relatively high WZ value have more poor housing corporations. Therefore, it does not seem wise to hold on to the WOZ value of the property as the basis for the landlord's tax. For example, the less wealthy housing corporations are taxed more heavily. The Minister points out that alternative bases also have problems, for example on the administrative side. I would ask him to consider another variant, namely the use of the indicative spending space as a basis. That would actually get the money where it is, namely the corporations that do have money in the bank. Is the Minister prepared to investigate such a basis? We're at a turning point. If no action is taken in the rental sector, at the end of the next cabinet period we will be faced with the greatest shortage of rental homes ever. As far as we're concerned, it's time for more social housing. It is time for greening and, as far as we are concerned, it is also time for change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u137	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 5:53 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u138	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u139	Mr. Chairman. In evaluating the landlord's levy, the Chamber asked me to come forward with an amendment quickly on the basis of the findings of that landlord's levy. The amendment is now before us. The result of the evaluation is that the levy itself is well-affordable and also leaves ample investment capacity. At the same time there was a desire, in myself and also clearly expressed in a number of chamberal motions, to make changes on a number of points. Mr De Vries has tabled motions to enable an investment impulse aimed at cheap rentals and to extend the Rotterdam-South regime. There was also a wish, which was widely supported, to add the new shrinkage regions to the reduction of the landlord levy. Also widely lived the desire to exempt small landlords and thus also courtyards from the landlord's tax or, if not entirely successful, to grant them a lower tax on balance. Although I heard some criticism from Mr Van Vliet, I have indeed included in this proposal a scheme for the taking over of private property in shrinking regions. I will deal with his amendment later. I dispute, however, that I have done nothing at all with his two motions. Following this introduction, I will address three issues raised by almost everyone, namely the development of the World Health Organization as the basis for the levy, the questions raised about regional impact and a number of other questions. Finally, I will deal with the amendments that have already been tabled. I understand there's more coming. I will then reply in writing. First of all, the questions relating to the World Health Organisation as a basis. Mr Ronnes said that the increase in the value of the World Trade Organisation, at least in a part of the country, meant that the levy would be much higher than initially estimated. That is not the case. The revenue from the levy is actually in line with the forecast we have made, because even then it was based on an increasing WPA value. So there's no extra revenue. As soon as it occurs, it is, as the technicians call it, an endogenous development and therefore not a yield that can then be used to spend. Mr Ronnes, Mr Bashir, Mr Van Vliet and, in my view, Mr De Vries asked about the impact of the high value of the World Trade Organisation in a number of scarcity areas, which would make the levy more severe. In the evaluation and also in COELO's report ordered by the VNG and Aedes that had a bit of a lobbying goal, but that may in itself show that it is not the case that corporations operating in an area with a high WZ value have difficulty with affordability for that reason. This could be the case because we have also changed this reign the housing valuation system in such a way that there is a WOZ component there, so that rents can move with that WOZ value. On the basis of the argument of affordability, there is therefore no reason to differentiate. That does not mean that I do not see that the need in some parts of the country is higher than in others. Mr Koolmees specifically mentioned this. That is also the reason why this bill contains an additional reduction in the levy. It is aimed at affordable rentals anyway, because there has been too much investment in expensive rentals in recent years. That discount is extra large in areas where there is tightness on the housing market. So that's also the elegant way. This stimulates investment in the homes that the housing corporations are really for, and you don't have to torment the WZ base. In reply to the motion for a resolution on this subject, I shall go into it in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u140	That extra discount is given in the so-called COROP areas, if I am right. These are areas where there are additional housing shortages. However, in my first term, I indicated that there are corporations operating in some municipalities that do have a problem, but just too weak a financial position. Surely it would be logical to give the discount in the places where corporations cannot meet their obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u141	To avoid a misunderstanding: COROP areas exist throughout the country. These are housing market areas established on the basis of data on housing and traffic flows. Mr Ronnes is right that there may also be individual municipalities outside designated areas where the financial position of a corporation is not so strong. Now a corporation is an independent organisation with the important task of ensuring good management. This includes balancing costs and benefits, and providing investment space where necessary. Mr Ronnes pointed out, on the basis of figures from the Authority's report on housing corporations, that although there is a national surplus of 5.5 billion, this does not mean that this is the case everywhere. That is true, but this indicates that it is quite possible to exploit very profitable social housing. If you're going to compensate any corporation that doesn't do that and has entered a weak financial position, then you're going to create a lottery without staples. Then it doesn't matter whether you do your job right or not, because as soon as your financial position becomes weaker, you will be financed from the general pot. I don't think that's a good system. However, I think it is a good system which is also included in the legislative proposal. It may be that we can identify objective scarcity and that the World Health Organization value of homes indicates this scarcity. In these cases, I am in favour of a national settlement, regardless of how that individual corporation does its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u142	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u143	I shall now turn to the questions on a number of regional effects. Mr Ronnes and Mr De Vries asked about the position of corporations in the Haaglanden/Rotterdam region. These indicated that they would also like to make use of the additional tax reduction for deficit regions. Rotterdam's position is special anyway. For Rotterdam-Zuid there is already an additional deduction option, which is also extended in this bill. Furthermore, the municipality of Rotterdam has just established a housing vision, which aims to ensure that there should not be more, but rather less social housing. This does not give the impression that there is a need for additional investment in social housing. In The Hague, this problem does not play out in this way, but here again the World Health Organisation value does not give the impression that there are such large deficits as in the regions of Amsterdam and Utrecht. That is why these regions are now outside the law. As soon as you want to add them, you will have a broader discussion because you will then leave the objective WPA criteria. That's not what I'm looking for right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u144	I see that Mr De Vries wishes to intervene. I have the impression that the Minister is in the process of answering in cubes. Is this block finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u145	No, I'm not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u146	Mr De Vries, why don't we wait for that? If your interruption is specifically about this, it's possible. You understand the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u147	It is about the region of Haaglanden/Rotterdam. The Minister had expressed his opinion on this. I understand that it is difficult to come up with new criteria, but this is a region which has quite a lot of work to do, not only in new construction, but also in sustainability and renovation, and which has by far, by far, the least resources in all nineteen regions. We therefore consider it worth considering whether this region should be eligible for the higher deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u148	And you want the Minister to respond to that? Or is it just the announcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u149	I hear a number of arguments, but I have not yet heard the argument of the small greenhouse of this housing market region. That's what I'm really worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u150	Mr De Vries is right to point out, on the basis of the investment information which I have also received, that the investment capacity in this area is relatively smaller. This does not solve my dilemma that, on the basis of the WPA value, you would not be able to reach these regions and then add an additional criterion that immediately raises the question of why we do not do so with all corporations or municipalities with limited investment capacity. Then it'll be a very complicated Christmas tree. That's why I'm so reluctant about this. Mr Ronnes asked if I am convinced that the €20,000 discount will end up in the right areas. In fact, we have already discussed this in the case of interruption. I think this is the most objective consideration. Mr Ronnes also asked why the deduction available for the demolition of houses requires a minimum cost of €62,500, and whether we should investigate this further. This amount has not been pulled out of control, but based on experience figures. It may also include the loss of the demolished house. If we lower the amount, we will soon run into European state aid rules, which demand the relationship between the aid you grant, i.e. the reduction, and the amount you invest. To avoid conflicting with these state aid rules, we use this €62,500. Then there is Mr Van Vliet's amendment on the purchase of private homes in shrinking areas. He asks why I do not want to serve these areas more generously, even though the Council of State felt that my proposal was too generous. Nevertheless, I fully support it, because I see the problem in complexes where some of the houses were once sold and where the corporation still owns a large part and says "it would be nice if we could destroy this whole in due course." The reason why I am very critical of Mr Van Vliet's amendment, and Mr De Vries, is that it is explicitly stated that one of the tasks of corporations in shrinking areas should be to take over homes from private owners, because those private owners cannot sell them properly. That surprises me, certainly from the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry. Indeed, the Committee of Inquiry writes that there must be room for experimentation, but crossing the line of a truly new task area, which is to act as a safety net for homeowners who cannot sell their homes, actually leads to the corporation as a thousand things cloth as it was before the survey. Because now it's the shrinking areas where homes are hard to sell. If I look at the forecasts, more homes will be difficult to sell in the future. Think of the large number of single-family homes from the 1960s and 1970s, which are going to be very difficult to sell in a highly ageing country. You cross a line by saying that the housing corporation is not only there for people with a small wallet, who deserve a decent home, but also for helping out the owners who unfortunately I can also imagine that that is very annoying that they cannot sell their property or can't sell it at a good price. I don't think that's a job for housing corporations, because then you're going to say again: with money destined for tenants with a small wallet, another social problem has to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u151	The means justify the purpose. The aim is to rent out social housing to people who themselves cannot meet their housing needs on the housing market. That is exactly the core task of a corporation. As a former chairman of a committee of inquiry, I can assure the Minister that that is exactly what this is all about. The aim is not so much to buy up private homes as the owners could not get rid of them. It's an added advantage that you avoid degeneration, because those homes are finally inhabited for once. The goal is that corporations in shrinking areas get the waiting lists down and have an extra quick way to get homes available, which they use directly as a social rental house according to the core task. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u152	The phrase "the end justifies the means" makes me even more concerned. That was also the basis for all the other activities of housing corporations in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u153	Mr Van Vliet said: the means justify the purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u154	Also in that variant, which I don't think was the pure Jesuit doctrine, that was the earlier formulation..... there is no objective limit anymore. We would have said, on the basis of the survey, that we should return to the core task, and then we will add a new role, which is potentially very large. Difficult to sell, especially if you look at the development that we can expect in the coming decades, is not going to be reserved for houses in a limited number of shrinking regions. That is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u155	It was clear that the Minister did not want it, but if things went wrong in the past with corporations, it was because the assets, which were subject to an obligation of destination, were used for a different purpose than social rental. That is precisely what we have in mind here. So that's comparing apples to pears. That's point one. Secondly, we are very, very closely monitoring the corporations, in accordance with the current law. We all failed to do that in the past. We now also have an integral powerful regulator with perseverance. As MPs, we keep our finger on the wrist. Here the knife cuts on two or three sides: we help those shrinking areas with customization, but we remain within the core task of the corporation. Those properties to be purchased are directly used as social housing in a profitable earning model and over time they will be demolished and withdrawn from the market. That's what we all do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u156	The amendment sets out three objectives. The first is not social rental, but it is also in line with the debate we have had earlier on solving homeowners' problems. This is really a new task, which I do not consider appropriate to the role of housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u157	The Minister is well aware that this is not the main objective. It's an additional advantage. The point is that we reduce waiting lists in the shrinking areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u158	On this basis, I do not come to any other conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u159	Mr Ronnes, do you have a new point on this front?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u160	In particular, it concerns the part that was not discussed between Mr Van Vliet and the Minister: the problem in the shrinking regions. In the shrinking areas there is a considerable challenge for the next ten or twenty years. We have a duty here in The Hague not only to look at the Randstad. We also have a duty to look at what happens in the longer term in the shrinking regions. In those shrinking areas, for example, there are flat buildings for which you would like to have a program, so that you can ensure that they will be demolished in ten years' time, if they are excess. Now there are corporations that have plans to make a transition with the scheme proposed here, making the buildings temporarily fit for habitation and then to demolish. This contributes to the social need and ensures that in the long term we do not have fragility in shrinking areas. I would ask the Minister once again to look at the proposal put forward by Mr Van Vliet and the PvdA, which I introduced in the first term, with these glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u161	Sure, because the situation of those apartment buildings was just in the bill. The complexity is that part of it has been sold, while another part is still in the possession of the housing corporation. That possibility is explicitly contained in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u162	But it is precisely there that the shoe is wringing, because of some buildings the corporation does not yet own. It is also noted that the deadlines in the proposed proposal are too short for this to be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u163	I have just had a discussion with Mr Van Vliet about the fact that corporations are not yet owners. This extends the task area of housing corporations to being a safety net for homeowners. The limitation of the depreciation period follows logically from developments in the shrinking regions. The forecasts indicate that if the population is not already shrinking there, which is already the case in a number of areas, it will be in the short term. That's not about 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u164	The Minister places great emphasis on the fact that individuals would be helped to get rid of their homes. I repeat, as Mr Van Vliet has already said, that this is the means. What's it about? It is a corporation according to the law and according to the findings of the Committee of Inquiry, is it not forbidden to buy houses? Surely a corporation is not forbidden to contribute to the restructuring in the area where it owns a lot of houses, which makes the remaining houses more valuable? Those are core tasks of a corporation, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u165	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u166	The only thing we're asking here...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u167	The Minister has the floor. The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u168	Mr De Vries is right that corporations are allowed to buy existing houses at this time. They can do that without my bill or Mr Van Vliet's amendment. For me, the crux is in the explicit invitation, which was mentioned in the debate when the motions were tabled and which is now included in the amendment, to give the corporations an additional task, namely to act as a safety net for private property owners. I find that unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u169	What if we delete that from the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u170	Then it has not been deleted from the Acts. Mr De Vries cannot reverse history in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u171	No, but it's about what the purpose and what the cure is. The Minister focuses very much on the medium and raises it to purpose. We don't want that. We want corporations to be able to meet the need for cheap social housing. We also want corporations in the areas in which they own a lot to be able to improve that area. That is what this legal process is about, and that is why we are asking for an exemption from the landlord's tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u172	Once again, if it is removed from the amendment, it will not affect the discussions we have had in recent months. It still opens the door to large-scale buying of private homes. I don't think we can convince each other. I'm really explaining the survey in such a way that we don't have to house Christmas tree tasks with housing corporations. This brings me to the end of the questions of regional impact. I come to the other questions. Mr Bashir and Mr Van der Linde asked why the duty-free rate was not increased to 50 homes. It is interesting that both gentlemen ask for it, because they sometimes differ ideologically. The number of landlords which will therefore no longer be covered by the levy is around 650. This is a sensitive issue in terms of equality of law. Why should this group of commercial landlords be excluded? In that sense, I am a little surprised by Mr Bashir's support for this, because these are commercial landlords who would be exempted from the landlord's tax. Mr Bashir sometimes uses different terms for this group of landlords. On balance, therefore, I do not recommend this exemption. Mr De Vries asked for an exemption from the landlord's tax on landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u173	I shall come back to the previous point. In this case, these are foundations with courthouses or very small housing corporations. I look at the administrative burden, including on the implementation side of the Tax Administration. I think we can make a big move if we exempt this particular group. Compared to the total levy of 1.7 billion, it is only a small additional amount, EUR 23 million. Is it effective to tax and charge these very small housing corporations, in this case with courthouses, with a lot of administrative burdens?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u174	There must be a misunderstanding, because the group of commercial landlords with few homes is also exempted from this. I have no reason to have anything against commercial landlords, but I was surprised by Mr Bashir, because I thought I heard him speak in other terms. In any case, the whole group of smaller landlords is excluded from this. This raises the question of how fair the levy is. So I'm gonna advise against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u175	Then I would like to surprise the Minister even more, because we want the landlord levy completely off the table, including for the large commercial parties. So he has to leave the table for everyone, because eventually the tenant pays the tax. I would like to come back to this point: I was hoping that we could find each other on the administrative burden, the implementation cost and make it a little easier for small housing corporations. I'm asking the Minister to think about that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u176	I appreciate it, of course, when Mr Bashir reaches out, but this is not a free hand, so I fear I will not be able to accept it. Mr De Vries proposes to exclude national monuments from the landlord levy. Financially, there is no reason for this, because the status of the State Monument offers the possibility to award additional housing valuation points and thus to calculate a higher rent. There's already a national register of national monuments, so I can't say it's impossible. That makes things a bit more complicated, but there is no financial reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u177	Maybe for the...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u178	I have the impression that my call to interrupt a little scarce has not been fully followed. Can we compress a little bit? Could you do a few things later, at the same time, Mr De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u179	I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u180	Mr Van Vliet said that the use of tax relief leads to a higher corporate tax and is therefore partly a cigar from its own box. Company tax is calculated on the taxable result. If that taxable result is higher because costs can be deducted, that is an inevitability. On balance, a deduction really leads to more cash in cash than if there were no deduction. Mr Koolmees noted that very little use is being made of the energy saving fund. He asked me to think about a different design. I have recently sent a letter to the Chamber stating that I am disappointed with the failure to comply with the Covenant Energy Saving Rental Sector and that I am therefore preparing a bill to phase out housing in corporations with less than label C. I would like to offer Mr Koolmees on that occasion that this spring will also be the spring one to deal with a better use of the Fund's energy saving rental sector. Mrs Voortman has tabled a number of amendments. I should like to deal with this in a moment when I deal with all the amendments. She did ask me whether the levy could not be better based on the indicative spending area. I think that is what Mr Ronnes was asking for. I would think that would be unwise. First of all, that is much more complex. The WOZ value is available in automated files. I must also always pay close attention to the feasibility, especially for the Tax Office. Secondly, the spending space is also influenced by choices made by a housing corporation. Here too, as I have just said to Mr Ronnes, I do not want us to go through the general pot of unwise choices again. You have to keep healthy incentives to deal with community money in an economical manner. These are two reasons why I would not want to do it on the basis of the indicative spending area. I would now like to move on to a response to the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u181	I'll take a look around first. Mr De Vries, did you have any questions? You say, no, I'll do it in second term. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u182	I have already indicated that I cannot, of course, respond to the amendments that have not yet been tabled and that I will do so in writing. In addition, a number of amendments are not covered. I'm gonna dissuade him anyway. If they are adopted, that will be a reason for me to come up with a letter of amendment to regulate cover. I would therefore like to agree with the President that the final vote on the law is a week later than the vote on the amendments, so that I can see what has been adopted and, if necessary, a letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u183	Can the Minister accept that he should vote in favour of the Christmas celebrations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u184	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u185	As you put it, at least the possibility was not ruled out that it would be after the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u186	No, I'd like to see a vote in favour of the Christmas tree. The same applies to the final vote. I hope that the President will be able to follow me when I say that I should be able to submit a letter of amendment if there are amendments that are not covered, despite the fact that I always advise against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u187	I understand. The President is not the most important one in this matter, so let me look around and see if the rest of the Chamber can agree. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u188	It really depends on what might be in that letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u189	Yeah, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u190	If there are things that we do not agree with, we will, of course, request an extension of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u191	This will then have to lead to a short reopening if necessary, all of which are intended to try to vote at least in favour of the Christmas celebrations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u192	I think that the escape the Minister is looking for will only apply to the amendments where coverage is really not indicated. Perhaps he could indicate in his response what amendment he considers to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u193	You are now making a distinction between amendments whose coverage is not clear and those whose coverage is not really clear. That's interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u194	No. Amendments have been tabled with cover. I would like to know what amendments the Minister is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u195	We're gonna see that on our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u196	That's obvious. Like Mr Bashir, I reserve the right to look at this again. The amendment tabled by myself and Mr De Vries indicates what the coverage is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u197	Good. I propose that we at least now listen to the Minister's content. Then we'll see if it could all work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u198	The amendment in part No. 10 by Mr Van Vliet and Mr Albert de Vries on the purchase of private homes by housing corporations. I have already indicated that I find this politically undesirable. In addition, the amendment contains a number of concepts which are not legally very precise. For example, it is proposed to exempt situations where there is a restructuring plan, but this concept is not known under the Housing Act. As a definition, this concept is therefore difficult to use. I have already indicated that I find a 20-year exemption period in shrinking areas illogical in view of the expected population development there. In addition, there is the risk that compensation will again be higher than Europe allows for for a very long period of reduction in deduction. This amendment is not covered and therefore falls into the category: possibly letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u199	Mr Van Vliet may not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u200	No, definitely not. We have made it clear that we are not getting the estimated EUR 1.7 billion landlord tax. These experiments cannot be profitable if there is also a transfer of landlord's tax. So if the landlord levy is calculated again, then these experiments are not profitable and they do not take place. That 1.7 billion simply remains intact, whether or not it happens what we want with the amendment. So we have literally stated that coverage within the meaning of the estimated EUR 1.7 billion is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u201	If the rental homes, which are apparently in demand, are not acquired along this route, they will be delivered in another way, which is simply covered by the levy. There is, therefore, indeed a circumvention of the levy. That, in my view, is the purpose of the amendment; we cannot even discuss it. There is therefore a loss of the levy. Once again, I will take that into account with a small correction, but it is necessary. I think that is what I am meeting Mr Van Vliet with again, because in fact, if the amendment is adopted, I am going to make a proper adjustment to the levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u202	The Minister says that these rentals will then come from somewhere else, but of course they will not. If these experiments don't continue, the waiting lists won't get an extra boost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u203	Then you're assuming corporations stay on their hands when there are waiting lists. I would like to speak an exhortational word myself against corporations, but fortunately they will also invest on their own. Without this amendment, it will simply fall within the scope of the levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u204	A question for my good understanding as a guide to this process, because for me this is a new figure. You dissuade the amendment, but you say: if it were to be adopted, I will look for cover and then I will come back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u205	That is exactly why I asked for the final vote to be postponed. I indicated that if an amendment is adopted with financial consequences, I will have to make a letter of amendment to deal with those financial consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u206	Okay, but the advice is at least: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u207	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u208	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u209	In the amendment to item No. Mr Albert de Vries asked for an exemption for monuments. I have said that it is not necessary as far as I am concerned. The increase in the landlord's tax is already included, so the amendment is covered in this respect. I would advise against the amendment, but not on the basis of the coverage. I come to the amendment tabled by Mr de Vries on part No. 12, which freezes the World War II value for the whole country. That amendment has enormous implementation consequences. The landlord's tax is now being paid by the Tax Administration. The tax authorities can do that because they can use automated files. There's a WOZ file. There are files that state who owns which property, so owner files. This makes it possible to apply such a large-scale levy. When the WPA is no longer the basis, it is no longer possible to verify in an automated way whether the declarations made by the corporation are correct. That is such a serious consequence for the Tax Administration, which is already having a difficult time, that this would actually mean that this law would no longer be enforceable. If Mr De Vries wants to offer extra space in scarcity areas, I can meet him along another route. In fact, we can also set the deduction that we have put at €20,000 in scarcity areas on a different amount, as long as you remain within state aid standards. We must then, of course, make an adjustment to the levy, but I could meet Mr De Vries along that route. But confronting the Tax Administration, which is already having a very difficult time, with a really non-executable regime, really puts the whole legislative adjustment at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u210	That's worth an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u211	I am also shocked, Mr President, because I really thought it would be easier. I am a little hesitant about the alternative offered by the Minister. These areas must not only build new ones, but also make them sustainable and renovate them. They're paying more and more of that tax. Isn't there another way? For example, if corporations have more than twice the national average of WPA growth over their assets in any year, can they receive an additional deduction? Then we keep it in the system of an additional deduction. In addition, we will stick to those cases where the World Health Organisation is increasing further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u212	We're in negotiation mode.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u213	I understand that Mr De Vries is looking for another solution. I appreciate that, but I find it unwise to respond to that from the hip now. I would like to respond in writing to Mr De Vries' proposal, because I would also like to be able to discuss this with the Tax Administration. I will do that before the votes. In addition, I make the offer along the route of the investment deduction. The regulation now contained in the amendment, whereby the Tax Administration is in fact burdened with an unexecutable task, could lead me to say: I will not introduce the law on balance. That seems to me to be a pity, because there are important improvements to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u214	We agree on that. I hear there is room for negotiation to see what is the smartest solution to what the Labour Party wants. Let us work on this over the next few days, so that we can work it out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u215	I will, of course, do so by letters from which the rest of the Chamber may also be associated. I will write an assessment of Mr De Vries's follow-up proposal; in fact, a kind of capping. I will also make an alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u216	The amendment does not need to be retained, because the whole will be smoothed out before the final vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u217	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u218	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u219	Of course, I prefer that it be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u220	I don't see any movement on the front benches.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u221	I do need to say one more thing, because this is really a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u222	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u223	If the corporations in the Randstad are really more than average, they are forced to sell homes. I know that this is a point that the Minister is keen on, but the Labour Party really wants to avoid it. Because there must also be sufficient social housing in the big cities. That is why we are afraid that the extra increase in the World Health Organization will kill the corporations. That's why we're so passionate about this. If we can get this right, then we need to get this right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u224	We share the desire for good regulation, so we will try to do so. Again, I would be sorry if the whole law could not continue because of an unexecutable part. I come to Mrs Voortman's amendment to item No. 13. By doing so, it aims to stimulate the transformation of vacant utility buildings along two routes. Furthermore, Mrs Voortman has tabled more amendments on this subject. It wants to increase the amount to €20,000 and link it to cheap new construction, in parallel with the scheme we have for new construction. This €20,000 is going to run counter to the state aid scheme again, because, fortunately, it is not so expensive to grow on balance. On average, this amounts to more than €50,000. If you want to give a discount of €20,000 by default, that means that a lot of projects that are still feasible are no longer feasible. That is a result that we would both regret. In the amendment to item No. 15 Mrs Voortman also goes into utility building. That amendment proposes an extension. Here too, I will have to arrange cover by means of a letter of amendment, but I think the movement is sympathetic. If Mrs Voortman wants to focus specifically on affordable rentals, this can be done by maintaining the amount of €10,000, because that does not come into conflict with European rules, but by doing two other things: extending the scheme and providing that the €10,000 is only available for conversion to affordable rentals. There is no cover in the amendment yet, but it may be possible to deal with it immediately with the adjustment. Otherwise, I'll do it in a letter of amendment. In short, I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 13 and I hope that we can agree on an amendment to item No. 15 in the direction I just mentioned. The amendment in part No. 14 is about an additional tax reduction for zero-on-the-meter houses. We share the importance of the goal. I am also encouraging this through the energy performance compensation. Of course, we also have the subsidy scheme for the sustainability of corporate housing. This was gonna come back on top of that. Mrs Voortman stated quite explicitly that she felt that this should not be covered by an increase in the levy. And then I have to strongly discourage the amendment, because it will really be a big amount of money. The amendment in part No. So 14 I must advise against. I would like to make a few comments on this point. I have already said that I hope Mrs Voortman will change it in the direction I have indicated. In doing so, I have commented on the amendments I have received. For the rest, I will do so in writing. I hope I have answered all the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u225	I see that there is a need for a second deadline and that there is no need for a prior suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u226	Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to respond to the point of the national monuments. The Labour Party considers it important that national monuments can also remain affordable social housing. It is true that a slightly higher rent can be levied, but that is precisely what we want to avoid by the additional levy. That is why we are in favour of this exemption. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for the so-called scarcity areas a deduction from the landlord tax of €20,000 per newly realized property is created with a rent below the first capping limit of the rent surcharge;]] [[noting that the housing market region of Haaglanden, Midden-Holland and Rotterdam is not included in the scarcity areas;]] [[noting that this housing market region has the least investment capacity of the nineteen recently formed regions, with relatively high targets for new construction, replacement and sustainability;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether the same deduction option can be made for the housing market region of Haaglanden, Central Holland and Rotterdam as in the scarcity areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in response to previous requests from the Chamber, the Cabinet ensures that there is a fund for the restoration of foundations, to which residents with insufficient borrowing capacity can rely;]] [[noting that this does not yet provide an adequate solution for households that are well underwater and/or otherwise in financial difficulties;]] [[noting that this category of residents can only be helped if they can sell their property, move to a rental house and be helped by debt relief to recover financially;]] [[noting that housing corporations can play a role in this solution in a responsible manner, provided that they are exempted from payment of landlord's tax during the period of rental of the property in question;]] [[invites the government, in consultation with the municipalities where foundation problems are involved and the Knowledge Centre Approaching Foundation problems, to examine whether exemption from landlord tax can contribute to a solution for heavily affected residents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34548-16]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries and Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34548-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u227	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the introduction of the motions on the basis of the debate we have had here. I shall begin with the motion on the major construction projects and the financial possibilities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that (under conditions) tax reductions are proposed for dwellings built in the period 2017-2021;]] [[Whereas such reductions can only be made in the scarcity areas while there are areas outside with a large construction declaration;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and to what extent the proposed tax reductions actually end up with large-scale construction companies and relatively low investment capacity and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34548-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u228	Does Mr Ronnes intend to postpone or postpone the implementation of what is regulated by this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u229	No, I don't want it to come to that. However, I have serious doubts about the effectiveness of the scheme and I doubt whether the objective we have, namely that social housing should be carried out where necessary. If this motion can count on a majority in the Chamber, we think it would be a good idea to get a clear picture of the effects and whether the law will work out as we expect it to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u230	So we start with retroactive effect with €10,000 and €20,000 in the scarcity areas and the rest of the country and do rental research at the same time. Is that what Mr Ronnes is proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u231	Yes. This concerns in particular the additional discounts. The €10,000 applies to the whole country. I'll come to my next motion. It's more or less about what I said in the first term. The CDA believes that the Minister should work constructively with players on adequate social housing. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the differences of understanding between corporations and the Minister for Housing and National Service regarding the landlord levy and its consequences turn into accusations and irritations;]] [[calls on the Government to consult rapidly with the corporation sector in a constructive manner on the landlord levy and its consequences and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34548-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u232	In addition, I indicated in the first time that I have another amendment in preparation. I will table that amendment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u233	The Minister has already said that he will respond in writing. I can give the floor to Mr Bashir on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u234	Mr. Chairman. The landlord's tax is a thing. Now they're working on it. It is made more complicated rather than simpler. We all get exceptions. We all get tax rebates and so on and so on. As far as we are concerned, the best solution is simply to abolish the landlord's tax. That's the simplest thing you can wish for. That also helps the tenant, because he has paid way too much in recent years, and that has to change!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u235	Thank you very much. I was just off my case, 'cause I thought there'd be another motion. Mr Van Vliet speaks on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u236	Mr. Chairman. I fully intend to maintain and put to the vote the Van Vliet/De Vries amendment, because I am happy to look forward to the coverage required by the Minister. To be honest, I thought it was a very silly game to pretend that it is imperative that corporations start buying homes from private individuals in the future. The Minister is well aware that the main objective is to ensure that the corporations comply with their core task of renting out housing below the liberalisation limit. One more comment on my amendment. The Minister spoke about state aid aspects. At the moment when something is happening in the so-called SGEI sphere, services of general economic interest, I do not think there is any discussion with the European Commission about State aid at all, because that discussion will be over. This, too, is a false argument from the Minister, an argument that he only uses because he does not want to give in to this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u237	I'm going to help colleague Van Vliet a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u238	As long as you do so briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u239	The explanatory statement states that this amendment achieves three objectives. Two of these objectives are the unsaleability and empty position of private homes. Then it is simply Mr Van Vliet's goal to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u240	A corporation that adheres to its core function, renting out social housing to target groups that cannot rent independently on the market, can do so by buying up houses, among other things. If it achieves two other benefits, it is a semantic discussion about something you call a goal in the explanatory statement to your amendment. Voilà, so be it, but the main objective is therefore that the corporations keep to their core tasks and that the waiting lists become smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u241	It is not an additional advantage, because it says: three goals are being achieved. So you're looking at this as a goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u242	Again, it's a semantic discussion. I do not think that we are at all undermining the core task of corporations if we say that they do not necessarily need to build new houses, but may also buy existing ones to use them directly as a social housing house below the liberalisation limit. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have another motion on a matter which has been brought forward by several colleagues, but which the Minister does not want to deal with either. I'm going to help these colleagues with the next motion on the giant World War II values in particular the Randstad. As you can see, I do not only have an eye for the shrinkage areas. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the landlord levy is based on the WPA value of the rented buildings;]] [[Whereas regional diversity in the housing market has led to a wide range of WPA values for landlords' properties, in particular between the Randstad and beyond and between cities and rural areas;]] [[Whereas the waiting lists for social housing in the areas with high rising WPA values are also generally the longest;]] [[Whereas housing corporations in those areas are facing a relatively and absolutely increasing payment of landlord's tax;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate mitigation of this effect by freezing the WPA values in those areas or by a system of further tariff differentiation within the total landlord levy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34548-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u243	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his first-term response. I have asked very few questions, because our questions have already been answered in detail in the note on the report. Non-DAEB is not doing it. That was the conclusion of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations chaired by Mr Van Vliet. Corporations are there to set up good homes for people with a small wallet, nothing more and nothing less. I am sure you will understand my surprise at Mr Van Vliet's amendment. How do we explain to tenants in Limburg that their housing corporation is about to go bankrupt because they have been in trouble buying private houses? The latter is going to happen. Investing in something no one wants is asking for trouble. With the good intentions of Mr Van Vliet and the Labour Party, you can ruin the entire housing market. I am somewhat disturbed that all the amendments relevant to this debate were not tabled until after 3 p.m. this afternoon. That makes it difficult to have an orderly debate. I don't think it's convenient either. In my initial contribution, I have expressed my concerns about the fact that the exemption from the landlord levy is now becoming a kind of administrative kneading gum or political hobby glue, and I see this happening in my eyes. This means that I will be waiting quietly for the votes on the amendments, for me to wait for the Minister's letter of amendment, and for me to go back to my group and see if we can take this on board. I am very attached to the National Programme Rotterdam Zuid. I am also very attached to the exemption for the first 25 homes. On top of all the motions that we have already supported in the discussion of the legislative proposal, however, I now find a mess of amendments that destroy the intention of the landlord levy. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u244	Mr. Chairman. To be brief, I won't repeat the first term. I am tabling a motion calling on the government to reduce rents by 1 billion and to compensate the corporations for this by reducing the landlord's tax by 1 billion. The intention is that this amount goes back one-on-one to the tenants. After all, they pay that landlord's tax. In fact, the corporations have become an extension of the tax system. Mr Bashir of the SP is also in favour of a rent reduction, so I invite him to sign the motion. I see that he does not want that, but at least I hope that the SP will support the motion. I'm filing the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the rent increases of this cabinet have greatly affected the purchasing power of tenants;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the housing corporations and landlords, to reduce the landlord's tax by EUR 1 billion and to use the amount to reduce (non-liberalised) rents by 1 July 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34548-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u245	To cover the motion, I refer you to our election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u246	I thought I saw another round of free beer coming by. I would appreciate it if Mr Madlener could tell us how he intends to cover that 1 billion. He should provide that cover if we are to be able to consider this motion at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u247	The PvdA apparently believes in free beer, but does not realize that all these tax increases are paid by the tenants. The tax increases of the PvdA have been passed on to the tenants. If Mr Die Vries wants to call that "free beer," he should talk to the tenants. They'll pay for the beer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u248	But the question of coverage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u249	I have already said that I refer to our electoral programme. That is one little A4 so Mr De Vries can probably do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u250	I explained today what the Labour Party is thinking about when it comes to the landlord levy and what we see as the future of affordability. I don't think my question is weird at all. Especially if the answer is to one A4's, it should be possible for Mr Madlener to tell us where he gets the cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u251	I have had this debate with Mr De Vries before, and I have already said that in our electoral programme we mention a number of possible coverages. We would like to reduce the contribution to the European Union, but we would also like to see a huge reduction in immigration. We could cover it with that. The best cover seems to me to close the borders for all those asylum seekers of Mr De Vries, that we no longer have to give them all free apartments with furniture and everything and that we give that money back to the tenants who are now entitled to pay it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u252	Mr Madlener is making a bit of a fool of himself by saying: I am tabling a motion to sign the SP, but the cover is in the PVV's election programme. Of course, it doesn't work that way. We are not going to use all the PVV's right-wing plans to make a proposal here. We have made our own proposal, namely to increase the tax on large companies and multinationals by only 1%, so that you can reduce the rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u253	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u254	I did not say that Mr Bashir had to sign something. He'll have to sign with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u255	He just explained that he doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u256	We can agree on that rent cut. If Mr Bashir has another cover, so can I. The cover is not mentioned in the motion, so if he has any other ideas about it, fine. I mentioned a number of possible coverages. Perhaps Mr Bashir will find acceptable cover in our election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u257	Mr. Chairman. As a financial spokesman, I can confirm that there is no free beer. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I would like to come back to the agreement on energy saving. It is good that the Minister is working on a proposal to achieve the objectives of the energy agreement. Of course, we already have a lot of arrangements. I call STEP, FEH and all kinds of jars. All we can see is that the FEH is barely being used. I have prepared a motion, but if the Minister later says he wants to take it with him in the drafting of the bill, I will hold my motion. Just to be sure, I'm going to file the motion so that the Minister knows what my direction of thought is. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that loans from the Fund have not yet been granted for the energy saving sector (FEH), and that there is currently only one application pending;]] [[Whereas the declaration of sustainability is significant, in particular in the case of corporations with relatively low investment capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to transform the FEH into incentive arrangement for corporations with relatively low investment capacity and a high sustainability rating,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koolmees. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34548-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u258	For the rest, D66 supports this law. Unfortunately, I have to leave now, Mr President, so I will read back the Minister's ruling on my motion and act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u259	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is critical of the landlord's tax, precisely because it has drastically hampered the investment capacity of corporations. At the same time, whatever you may think about it, this proposal encourages corporations to invest in, for example, building more homes. So that is a step forward. You can say anything else, it should have been sister or something, but this is an observation. I have a few more questions about the amendments. I thought I'd put that in second place instead of making extra interruptions. In the case of Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments. 13 The Minister said that it is state aid, but it is a tax reduction that no party, by definition, favours against another party. Discounts on new buildings may also be possible, so why would this be state aid? Can the Minister explain that to me again? On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 15 said the Minister that he would give a positive opinion or at least judge Chamber, if the applicant, I therefore, made the scheme applicable only to houses below the capping limit. I find that interesting in itself, but I do wonder why that is. Now the scheme also applies to houses above the capping limit. For what reason should we say, if we want to extend the scheme by means of this amendment, that it only applies to houses below the capping limit? I would like to hear a response to that, then I will see if I can amend the amendment. I'm constructive about that, but I just want to know why.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u260	I see the Minister can answer immediately. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u261	Mr. Chairman. Mr De Vries has given his opinion on this matter. 16 tabled a motion asking him to examine whether the housing market region of Haaglanden, Central Holland and Rotterdam could receive the same deductions as scarcity areas. I understand the motion in such a way that it does not concern this bill at all, but that it is a preview of another bill. I also fail to see how I can easily meet this point. You have to add additional criteria. On balance, I must advise against this motion. The next motion, the one in part No. 17 by Mr De Vries and Mr Van Vliet, on housing owners with foundation problems. I agree with both the authors that this is a very annoying problem. That is also why I, also on the basis of a motion by Mr De Vries, together with banks and local authorities, am forming a fund that allows owners to obtain low-cost loans. That's pretty much round. The motion in part No. 17 makes a new proposal, namely that these houses could also be taken over by housing corporations. The gentlemen should forgive me for getting even more worried about this. With regard to the acquisition of housing in shrinking regions, we have already discussed my view that this is an extension of the scope of the task in relation to social rents. That was denied by the proposers. In the same debate, there is now a second extension of the task area: not only buying homes in shrinking areas where they are difficult to sell, but also buying homes in areas with foundation problems. Once again, I am not denying the problem; that is why we are setting up a fund for this. However, it is a second extension of the task area, giving housing corporations a safety net role again among private property owners. I really don't think we should cross that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u262	I understand the Minister's explanation, which is in line with his previous reaction. But what is his opinion when it comes to housing that is part of a complex in which the corporation owns itself? By allowing these properties to participate, the corporation can therefore secure the foundation restoration of its own property.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u263	Mr De Vries says he owns his own property. He thinks of mixed complexes. I'd like to see the consequences of that. I understand the parallel with my own proposal on shrinking regions. I will return to it in writing. It is a motion, so it is not an immediate part of the law. I'll get back to you. This is indeed an intermediate form that could make it more digestible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u264	That would probably be in the same letter in which you will also correspond to the Chamber on the uncovered amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u265	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u266	That was the motion in part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u267	The motion in part No. 17, but in the modified form that Mr De Vries has just put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u268	He announced an adjustment, and maybe that modified motion is already there. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u269	In the motion in part No. 18 by Mr Ronnes and Mrs Voortman, the government is asked to examine the extent to which the proposed tax reductions will actually end up with large-scale corporations, and to inform the Chamber. This motion is based on the assumption that I do not have regular constructive consultations with the housing corporations, and that is incorrect. Only two weeks ago, I had my regular administrative consultation. Yesterday I had a very nice farewell meeting with Mr Calon and many corporate directors. With his motion, Mr Ronnes at the same time, I would like to refer again to the landlord levy. At this time of year you will inevitably come to the comparison of the turkey and the Christmas party. The corporation sector has a different view of this levy than I do. That's okay, too. No one likes to make a payment to the general pot. I can predict the outcome of that consultation. All things considered, I must dissuade the motion, not because of the consultation but because it asks very much for the familiar way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u270	Mr Ronnes, do you have a question about the Minister's advice? That in itself was crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u271	The opinion was crystal clear, but I would ask the Minister to reconsider his opinion. I would like to point out what has recently appeared in the press about the relationship between the Minister and Aedes, the representation of housing corporations. The tenants have the impression that the parties who are supposed to provide good social housing are attacking each other in public. Tenants then get the feeling that they are not being thought of. It would be a good thing if the Minister took the opportunity to show that he is also there for the tenant who is waiting for a social rental house and that he talks constructively with the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u272	Mr Ronnes is suggesting that the world is a little too rosy. There are lobby organisations such as Aedes and Building Netherlands. The President is paid to yell now and then: the Minister does not do his job well if he does not transfer more money to my sector. If the chairman of that lobby club calls that regularly, members say he is appointed for another term. Every now and then Mr Calon calls that my direction. Well, he also knows that the more he calls it, the more likely a newspaper that writes it is. Sometimes I kindly point out the facts. I always do that first in the constructive consultation, but when I meet a journalist, I would like to ask: have you read the Donald Duck? That does not change the fact that we continue to consult each other. Sometimes we agree and sometimes we don't. That is why I think that the motion is asking very much for the familiar path. I'm gonna dissuade her. I can assure Mr Ronnes, by the way. I drew the agenda directly with Mr Norder, Mr Calon's successor, to make an appointment. In the motion in part No. 20 Mr Van Vliet asked the government to investigate the mitigation of the effect of the rising World Trade Organisation values by freezing those values in the relevant areas or by a system of further tariff differentiation within the total landlord levy. I have already indicated to Mr De Vries that the freezing is not feasible for the Tax Administration. I believe that the research into tariff differentiation is the exploration I will be doing with Mr De Vries over the next few days. In this form, I must discourage the motion. I would also like to see the outcome of the discussions with Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u273	I'll get the part about freezing out of the request. That leaves only the "De Vries" piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u274	Then it is possible to deal with it because we find a solution. Otherwise, Mr Van Vliet will be asking for an investigation that I have no objection to, as long as this is not about freezing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u275	The Van Vliet motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the landlord levy is based on the WPA value of the rented buildings;]] [[Whereas regional diversity in the housing market has led to a wide range of WPA values for landlords' properties, in particular between the Randstad and beyond and between cities and rural areas;]] [[Whereas the waiting lists for social housing in the areas with high rising WPA values are also generally the longest;]] [[Whereas housing corporations in those areas are facing a relatively and absolutely increasing payment of landlord's tax;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate mitigation of this effect through a system of further tariff differentiation within the total landlord levy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 20 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u276	Now that the freezing is out and an investigation into another type of tariff differentiation remains, the judgment is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u277	Then everyone knows what he's up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u278	In the motion in part No. 21 Mr Madlener asked the government to reduce the landlord's tax by 1 billion and to use the amount to reduce the rents. That's an uncovered motion. That's why I have to dissuade them. In the motion in part No. 21 Mr Koolmees asked the Government, the Energy saving Fund, to transform the housing sector into an incentive scheme for corporations with relatively low investment capacity and a high sustainability statement. Mr. Koolmees is gone...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u279	But he reads everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u280	Sure. As the motion has now been formulated, it has budgetary implications. As a financial spokesman, he won't just want to. The fund now has a loan structure; that loan is repaid. An incentive arrangement sounds like a subsidy, which is not repaid. I can't just transform that. I have to discourage the motion, but my commitment remains that I would like to address the fund's potential for improvement in the phasing-out proposal on energy-efficient housing. Mrs Voortman referred to the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 13 and 14 asked whether there could be State aid. Mr Van Vliet also replied. Yeah, we can do that. Social rentals can not only be built by commercial parties, but they do. You can definitely earn a social rental from the rent. A discount scheme can affect free market movement. That is why we have to comply with the state aid rules. That is why I went along with the amendments to the Nos. 13 and 14. I come to the amendment to item No. 15. Mrs. Voortman asked if the problem was in the capping limit, you give the discount only for homes below the capping limit, or in the amount. The amount of €20,000 is very quickly in breach of state aid rules. I therefore strongly advise against this, because it makes transformation more difficult. The amount of €10,000 is feasible; that is what we are using now. For an extension, I must indicate a cover in the letter of amendment. It's technically possible. I leave it to Mrs Voortman to decide whether to extend the €10,000 specifically below the capping limit, or whether to extend it above and below the capping limit in its present form, in line with the incentives for new construction..........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u281	I am talking about a continuation of the tax reduction. If I continue to do so and do not reduce it to the capping limit, what consequences will that have for the Minister's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u282	As long as it stays on that $10,000. My view is that the amendment is in fact uncovered, but I am making a note of amendment and then it is feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u283	The Minister says it will be enforceable. I will include that in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u284	I hope I have answered all the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u285	I look around and I don't see anyone jumping up, so that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-12.u286	I thank the Minister very much. The Minister presented a letter on the uncovered amendments, the letter of amendment and a response to the motion to be amended in part No. 17 by Mr De Vries and Mr Van Vliet. It shall do so as soon as possible in order to allow votes on the legislative proposal, the amendments and the motions for resolutions before the plenary session and possible reopening of the debate.
