ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Security and Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The speaking time per group is five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u2	Madam President. Another atrocity, this time in Brussels. Indescribable scenes. Heartbreaking images. Who's not devastated? Everyone is shocked, and rightly so. But still no one dares tell the truth and that truth is hard. No matter how hard the elite deny it, these attacks are the direct result of Islamic ideology. The Qur'an prescribes jihad terror. The war against us has been going on for 1,400 years. The second truth is this: the jihadists move like fish in the waters of the Muslim communities. They're heroes out there. Salah Abdeslam spent four months in Molenbeek. He ordered pizzas. He was walking down the street. He walked by the police station just for fun. Everyone knew, everyone saw, but everyone kept quiet. That silence, that silence of the Muslim communities is our problem. The day before yesterday, Delfshaven: four dangerous terrorists arrested. Last Tuesday: cheerful Muslim children at a school. "Allahoe akbar" calling Moroccans in prisons. And here too, there is hardly anyone from the Islamic community who speaks out against the jihadists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u3	Does Mr Wilders really think that the Netherlands is waiting for a Dutch politician to say, after this kind of horrific attack, "I'm telling the truth, and I'm the only one who knows what's going on"? Has Mr Wilders ever seen a lot of other reactions from the Muslim community? In this country, spiritual leaders, ordinary people and mayors, such as Aboutaleb, have all reacted differently than he describes. Why is Mr Wilders, who is the first speaker here today, divisive? Why does he not see the unity that wants to radiate more than 90%, I say 99% of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u4	People like Mr. Pechtold and parties like D66 cause us to be in trouble. These are parties that have opened the borders wide for decades. These are the born cultural relativists who believe that Christianity and Islam are equal. I'm tired of all the lies, all the political correctness. There are innocent deaths every year in all the cities of the world and increasingly in Europe. People are being killed, and that is because of the Islamization that we have allowed here. That's enough. Enough is enough. I don't apologize for that. I shall put every debate on the spot once again. Then I come to Mr Pechtold's second question. I've hardly seen them, except for a few. I've seen 100 people in Rotterdam. I've seen 80 people in Amsterdam. Where are those demonstrations of thousands, what do I say, tens of thousands of Muslims, everywhere in the world and in the Netherlands, saying: this is not my Islam? It's not that. There are none, I say to Mr Pechtold. A handful of people who dare. Salute for them, the masses remain silent. In fact, the masses support it. In Molenbeek, the terrorist was protected by the Muslim community for months. That is a problem and we are dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u5	Never before was Mr Wilders so clear where he draws a line between Islam, the Muslim faith community and terrorism, one accusation. My question to him was whether he's not just seeing the negative signals. Does he agree with me that, at a time like this, after horrific attacks like this, radiating unity and defending our values, values that also apply to people born here with perhaps a Muslim background, is the most important thing? Then there is my next question to Mr Wilders. What did he do to keep that unit? What did he do to make sure people aren't afraid? What did he himself contribute to ensuring that we are not opposed to each other but all of us not only condemning terrorism but also tackling it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u6	Over the past decades, we have imported millions of people throughout Europe from a culture of hatred, who do not want to integrate, who do not want to assimilate and do not need to, because the governments in Western Europe did not ask for it either. I'm standing here after another attack. I stood here twice last year, together with you, in January after the attacks in Paris and in November after the next attacks in Paris. I also said what I am saying now: how many more deaths, how many innocent victims will have to fall before the quarter falls in your Lower House and in V-K with the Cabinet? We imported a monster, and that monster is called Islam. We're gonna have to de-islamize. Anyone who dares not acknowledge that Islam is the problem is partly responsible for all the misery we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u7	People are responsible for the way they deal with their faith. People, individuals, are responsible for their actions. We all condemn them when it comes to terrorists who draw their feelings and ideas from the Qur'an or wherever. But Mr Wilders is generalizing. Mr Wilders is throwing at one heap. Mr Wilders frightens all those people who are good, who want to build a future here, who are not imported here, as Mr Wilders says in his language, but who have often been brought here, have fled here, and try to build a future here. Once again, I ask Mr Wilders why he does not hesitate to follow the line of 'Muslim = terrorism', which means that you are all guilty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u8	That's not what I said. I repeat what I did say, however often Mr Pechtold asks the question. That's that we imported the monster Islam. I also say to Mr Pechtold that it is not just the small minority that matters. It's the vast majority that tolerates it, making it happen. That was so under Stalinist communism, when people were murdered in the Gulag by a small minority, but the majority allowed it. That was so under fascism, when people were killed by Nazi Germany, but a majority allowed it to happen. That's what's happening now. Of course, the number of terrorists is a minority of Muslims, but the majority tolerates them. This proved to be the case in Molenbeek, where the largest terrorist in Europe, who was responsible for the attacks in Paris, was protected for four months by the Muslim community in Molenbeek. He could go from address to address, walk down the street, talk to people and order pizzas, and nobody turned him in. The majority allowed. We need to get rid of the problem called Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u9	In previous debates you could hear a slightly nuanced sentence from Mr Wilders if this was the case. In his introduction now, even that nuance is gone. It is now clear that he has said here that everything that has to do with Islam and Muslims is partly guilty of this. That is the same thing as the whole population. How dare you even tell me that you don't deliberately turn population groups against each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u10	Mr Roemer has listened very badly or he does not understand; one of the two. I've been talking about Islam. I am talking about the minority who attacks and the majority who tolerates it. That is also apparent from every investigation. I have an investigation in front of me from not so long ago, which shows me that I am just giving an example: 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands think that the religious rules are more important than the laws that are made in a parliament. We have seen before that more than 80% of Turkish youth found Syrians heroes. Those are all hard numbers. I'm not making them up, they're there. I'm not saying all Muslims are terrorists. I do say that Islam is a pernicious, hateful, violent ideology that unfortunately, as in Molenbeek, can function because the majority tolerates it. We can see that, because those mass demonstrations that oppose the attacks? I haven't seen them yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u11	1.5 million people in the Netherlands, who also think they have freedom of religion here and who interpret it in a very different way, all feel addressed. They feel put in a corner and they feel ignored; all because you systematically, today perhaps even more than before, compare everything. Let's be clear. Many of these young people were born, raised and raised in our neighbourhoods. Many of these neighbourhoods have been abandoned, also by Rutte I's policy for which you were co-responsible, with fewer police officers, less support, less youth care and so on. If you were to take responsibility for this, you could have worked in one Netherlands in which we live together and in which we do not set people so horribly against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u12	The leader of the SP is one of the great road viewers of the Netherlands. He's one of the people who looks away every time we talk about restricting the asylum influx. That has everything to do with terrorism. I have a whole list of terrorist attackers who came with the asylum influx. Let's look at the attacks in Paris last year. Two of the unsubs were asylum-seekers. Every time we at the PVV in the Chamber said that we should do something about this and that we should close our borders, Mr Roemer's party, the SP said: no, no, the more we come here, the better; let us not do anything about it. Mr Roemer is one of the road viewers. He refuses to look at what is destroying our country and what his constituents are fed up with, namely: importing even more Islam. That's why we're in trouble right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u13	I refuse to look away when it comes to people who want to confess their faith in the Netherlands in a decent way. I refuse to follow Mr Wilders when he simplifies all those people and says that they are all wrong, that they are not good by being quiet and that they are all inferior to the rest. Indeed, I refuse to follow Mr Wilders when he systematically puts people away and puts people against each other. On the contrary, I would point out that we need to tackle those attacks and prevent radicalisation. But on all the proposals in the Chamber of my group to prevent radicalisation, to promote integration, to prevent segregation and to give equal opportunities to all young people in the Netherlands, the PVV systematically says no. That's looking away!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u14	Mr Roemer says that I would condemn people who are silent. I do condemn those people. Those Muslims in Molenbeek knew that Mr. Abdeslam, the terrorist of Paris, was hiding in their neighborhood. They almost all knew. It was an open secret in the Muslim enclave there. I sentence it that those people kept quiet about it, that no one called the police, that they were chatting with him on the street, that the pizza courier could bring him a pizza and that he could take a walk around the police station to provoke. When you read the Belgian newspapers, people said with pride afterwards: it was one of us and we didn't report it. If you have a terrorist in the area, you turn him in. If you don't, you're no good. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u15	Here is the well-known Flemish saying: if you point one finger at the other, four fingers point to yourself. Mr Wilders says that the majority tolerates it. I was in Rotterdam myself to address an audience of 200 people. Mr Wilders probably saw the same thing. Do you know what I heard from those people, but also from a lot of people who made phone calls? They asked, "Is it safe enough to go out on the street?" There has also been a terrorist attack in the Netherlands. Two weeks ago a molotov cocktail was thrown in broad daylight in Enschede. Where was Mr Wilders then? Why didn't he stand up for the Netherlands then? Then why didn't he invite the Prime Minister to come to the Chamber? Is Mr Wilders concerned with the Netherlands? Or is it about him himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u16	The PVV abhors any violence against anyone. I've been saying for years: if someone comes to a mosque with their fingers, they have to be caught and punished hard. Any violence is wrong against anyone. Now I get to those 200 people. Don't make me laugh! We have 1 million Muslims in the Netherlands, and then Mr Kuzu arrives with a demonstration of 200 men. In Amsterdam, there were 80. But where are those garden thousands of Muslims who stand up and parade the streets? They're not here. They're not there because they somehow don't want to distance themselves from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u17	It's not about not wanting to distance yourself from what's happening. It's about what terrorists do to our society. Mr Wilders throws on top of it time and time again. He does exactly the same as the terrorists do, which is to create fear and further stir up division. Mr Wilders can make all kinds of statements until he weighs one o'clock, but it is clear to his supporters what this is about. Mrs Tanja Meijer, Mr Wilders well-known, states that Muslims must be eradicated. PVV-Kamerlid Dion Graus believes that Muslims are no longer allowed to work at Schiphol. Recently, last weekend, it became clear what de-Islamicisation means, namely that in broad daylight a woman walks towards a Muslim and rips off her headscarf. Is that the Netherlands that Mr Wilders has in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u18	No, you don't touch people and you don't use violence. I've always said that, and I will always say that, but we have to get rid of Islam. Absolutely. We're gonna have to de-islamize. The import of Islam is the biggest problem we have made in the last century, in the Netherlands and in Western Europe. If we do not stop that, if we continue to bring this asylum flow into that mass immigration of people from a culture that is dangerous to us and in which everyone who is not a Muslim is inferior, a culture that preaches violence, our children and grandchildren will no longer live in a free country. I'll fight to the end for that not to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u19	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u20	It becomes clear once again what Mr Wilders stands for. He gets a 10 for his own head in the sand when it comes to his own role, but he gets a 0 for empathy for the Netherlands, for empathy for all Dutch. The point is that once again it becomes clear that Mr Wilders is not about the people, but about the polls. He's probably thinking, if there's one more attack going on, I'm the next prime minister. That's what he tweets: if I'm going to be Prime Minister, then... He should once again be very careful with himself about what message he's sending to the Netherlands and about what he's doing to Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u21	Let us really conduct the debate on content and not on the person. Mr. Wilders, you can respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u22	I have nothing to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u23	I'll try another tone. Let's see where we come up with that. Mr Wilders, I accept a great deal of you, and you must be able to say whatever you want. What touches me is that you tweet first: this Prime Minister is complicit in what happened in Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u24	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u25	What you are saying to my colleagues here today is that they are also complicit, to Mr Roemer and to Mr Pechtold. Mr. Wilders, you may not like hearing this, but we belong together. I'm with you, you're with me, and we're with this Prime Minister. It is precisely in these times that it is so important that we stand together and know who the enemy is. Your enemy, look around you, Mr. Wilders, he's not here. The enemy is ISIS, we all agree on that. It has to be fought. What does it say about you, Mr Wilders, that you are constantly seeking conflict with colleagues in the Chamber? What does that say about you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u26	That says you don't get it at all, and that says the whole Chamber is sticking its head in the sand. That says that no one dares acknowledge that Islam is a problem. When I say that our Prime Minister is morally responsible for possible deaths, I mean that I hold that I have been saying here for years that your returned Syrians are not to be allowed to return at all, but in case you do, put them in prison acutely. This is not happening in the Netherlands. People are coming back from Syria and they just keep walking around the streets. A handful of them is in prison, but not most of them. If one of those people then commits an attack, which you could have prevented by putting them in jail, you're at least morally complicit in what happened, because you're letting them walk free, and that's incredibly bad. We've seen what the Syrians are capable of. We saw that in Paris and in the attack on the Jewish Museum in Brussels a few years ago. We've seen in several places that returned Syrians kill here. So I say don't let them come back, and if you're so stupid as to let them back into the country, put them in lockdown immediately. Already in 2005, before this problem of the Syrians began, I argued here for administrative detention, after the murder of Theo van Gogh. If you don't, you're responsible for the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u27	Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u28	But it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u29	Unbelievable. You choose your wrong enemy, Mr. Wilders. You choose your wrong enemy. He's not here. Now point your arrows at others. This isn't your enemy. You were the first to tweet after the attacks in Paris. Your second message was only about the victims. In the immediate hours after that attack, you hurled 29 messages into the world, with four words of compassion: terrible, what suffering. That's all it took. For the rest, it was just news reports in which you were quoted and retweeted. You were angry with journalists who might not have judged you positively enough. You were angry at this Prime Minister because he was an accessory. You wanted to be Prime Minister. Me, me, me, me. Once again, Mr Wilders, what does it say about you that you are dealing with this terrible tragedy in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u30	I am incredibly angry. I'm really upset that I have to answer these kind of stupid questions every time. I am very angry that we only see people here in the Lower House and in the Cabinet who refuse to acknowledge what problem we have. When it comes to asylum or terror, like your party, they are talking about economic backwardness or the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, or I know any nonsense. We have a problem because we have brought millions of people to the Netherlands and Europe from an Islamic culture, without asking them to adapt to us. We've adapted to them. That's the problem! If you don't want to see that, you are indeed part of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u31	Mr Wilders, I keep repeating: we belong together. Whatever you're gonna do or whatever you're gonna hit, I'm gonna keep repeating it, because I don't want us to break up. I am talking about not letting Muslims and Christians play apart, and that goes equally well for you, for me and for the cabinet. 29 tweets, Mr Wilders. You sent 29 tweets with four words of compassion. Again, I would like to say, you are a pagan again. What that says about you? I only have one word to say about that: political corpse-picking. Even you, Mr Wilders, I expected better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u32	I'm not gonna respond to any of it. 40 years of mass immigration and Islamization has also borne its wretched fruit in our country. Molenbeek is also becoming a reality in the Netherlands. It is already bursting in our country of neighborhoods where non-Western immigrants are by far the majority. Let me give you a few examples. The Hague, the Schilderswijk: 85%. Transvaal: 78%. Rotterdam, the district Feijenoord: 58%. Delfshaven: 58%. Amsterdam, New West: 51%. Zaandam, Poelenburg: 61%. Nieuwland district in Schiedam: 55%. Oosterwei in Gouda: 55%. And last but not least Kanaleneiland, Utrecht: 68%. The elite are silent. There is a dictatorship of silence. That silence about the truth, which is not fair mentioning the cause of the problem, is the best friend of the jihad. It's gonna cost lives, too. The truth is that the cause of all this Islamic terror is Islam and nothing else at all. Islam wants to dominate. I say to everyone in the Netherlands: we will never be safe if we do not dare to acknowledge that. Never. We must do everything we can to defeat the jihadists. I have just said it in response to a colleague in an interrupting debate that I have been advocating administrative detention since 2005, after the murder of Theo van Gogh. I have tabled 20 motions for resolutions on this matter in the last few years. I wish you'd listened. If you'd listened, a lot of trouble wouldn't have happened. What I don't understand is that we're still not closing our borders. Shouldn't that be our first priority? Hundreds, maybe thousands of jihadists are ready to strike. They can enter our country undisturbed. I don't understand why those boundaries are still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u33	After Mr Wilders' litany before this, I now have a question about closing borders. There are a few countries in Europe that have closed the border: Hungary, Bulgaria and Macedonia. The only way to do that is to build a fence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u34	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u35	Then the boundaries don't close.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u36	No, the boundaries are closing for anyone we don't want here. In the past we had about 400 border crossings in the Netherlands. I suggest we all re-manage them. We have 40,000 soldiers in the Netherlands. I think that's possible. Military personnel are not there to guarantee security abroad but to ensure security in the Netherlands. So here's what I'm saying. Man all border posts again, all 400. Put the 40,000 in for that. If necessary, have the army patrol the border posts as well. Use drones for that and all the modern resources there are. And stop anyone you don't want in our country with a checkup. So you keep the border closed for anyone without a residence permit, for every terrorist, for every asylum seeker. For everyone you don't want in the Netherlands, the border goes tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u37	Mr Wilders said so far: the border must be closed. But to the first question I ask him, he answers: no, I am not closing the border, I want to re-introduce border controls. Say that! Because there are more parties here who would like to talk, including the CDA and I think the VVD and others, about a way to get better border controls. But with the way Wilders talks, nothing happens! He's shouting, "Boundaries closed." That's not gonna happen. He wants to restore border controls. I'd say make a proposal and we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u38	We've been calling this for months! You are not listening, Mr Buma! You're just not listening. For months, we have been calling for borders to be closed, asylum seekers to be closed, or terrorists to be closed. You should listen to that a little bit more. In 2005 and all these years after, the PVV, then Group Wilders, advocated the prevention of the detention of terrorists, people who could have something on their hands. The CDA was always against it, and now I read that you are also in favour of it. You listen but you often listen five years too late! That's the problem with the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u39	This isn't about listening anymore, it's about doing it. You say: first close the borders. We all know that the borders are not closing. It's obvious now. They're border controls, but that takes a lot. Close to you, in Kerkrade, the border runs about one kilometer in the length direction along a road. Will the army actually patrol that street in Kerkrade/Herzogenrath, on cross-border business sites, in the Achterhoek, wherever those villages go together? That's where the people will see you, thanks to your soldiers on the street. Is that the statue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u40	Do you know, Mr Buma, what people see if we don't? Do you know what people see when we let terrorists into our country? Do you know what people see when we let our borders be one big hole cheese? Terrorists operate internationally. We have seen them arrested in Rotterdam, Düsseldorf, Brussels and Paris over the last few days, but they are simply travelling around. 5,000 Syrians return to Europe. Europe has open borders. If we do not close the borders, we will see Brussels scenes in Amsterdam. I prefer to close the borders and, yes indeed, sometimes also use the army or other means to do so, over thousands, hundreds, dozens of deaths, including in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u41	Mr Wilders has sometimes accused me of being the biggest liar in the Netherlands and the whole world. But quite frankly, the phrase "I close the borders" is at least not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u42	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u43	When it comes to the truth, Mr Wilders should never say this again. He wants border checks. Then when I ask him how he does it, he has no idea. I would like to start by making a concrete proposal on how to do it. First go to all those villages and cities that are half in the Netherlands and half in Germany, and then come back with the costs and the stakes. If Mr Wilders did something instead of shouting, the whole Chamber would be willing to talk to him about how we can achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u44	It is always sad when a colleague of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, who has prepared an interruption with his colleagues, comes forward very proudly and then gets an answer and pretends that the answer has not been given. It's very sad and it doesn't grace Mr. Buma. I gave the answer. The borders are closing. The boundaries are closing for anyone who isn't allowed to be here; they don't come in here anymore. That's one. Two. I also told you how we're gonna do that. We're gonna re-manage the old border posts, we're gonna deploy drones and the military. We have 40,000 soldiers to prevent that. I explained it all, Mr Buma. That doesn't fit in with the preparation of your interruption is more your problem than mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u45	I will leave that for Mr Wilders. I agree with him that we should keep anyone who isn't allowed in here out of this...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u46	See, that's profit again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u47	... but a Moroccan with a Belgian passport from Molenbeek does not come out of that border control. It's gonna keep going. The Moroccan, the Turk or anyone else with a French passport is just a Frenchman coming through your border controls, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u48	That's just the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u49	So you're not closing the door at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u50	So that's just the question. Now he just walks into the country in a thousand ways, while when he's standing in front of a border post and being taken out, he'll be checked from a hundred thousand sides if we know he's in a truce. You can laugh about it, but that's my proposal. They'll check if he's on a terrorist list or on a criminal list. If he is, we won't let him into the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u51	When a colleague makes a proposal, Mr Wilders now weakens it a bit, because borders close means: not literally with fences, but with border controls, we have to question the feasibility. In a previous debate, I told Mr Wilders that we have 400 border crossings, regardless of the potato fields you will prefer as a terrorist if there are border controls. Does Mr Wilders have any idea how many vehicles, not planes or boats, pass the Dutch border every day?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u52	No, but there'll be a lot of them. I believe that we will also have to check between these border posts, as I said, via drones and via the army. Everyone here in the Chamber can try to make a bit of fun of that, but I say to you: if we continue to import as many Muslims as possible into the Netherlands and open the borders for Islamisation, if we continue to allow asylum influx, if we do not close the borders, that is what you do in the majority here: you do not keep the borders closed, you leave them open and you leave the asylum seekers and the immigrants in so much as Molenbeek, Brussels is the harbinger of what will happen tomorrow in the Netherlands. I want to prevent that. I'll stick my neck out for that. The PVV says we shouldn't do that. I dare to believe that about half of the Netherlands also wants what the PVV wants, namely to close the borders for people we do not want here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u53	My experience with Mr Wilders shows that if you ask a simple question, you will have a very long answer, because Mr Wilders is on slippery ice. I asked him very simply whether he knows how many vehicles cross the Dutch border every day. He just said that everyone in a vehicle like this would be checked a hundred thousand times. I'll take that symbolically. So everyone needs to be checked. 400,000 vehicles cross the border every day. Could Mr Wilders give me some idea of what his controls mean for our exports and at all the feasibility of his plans? The fact that you're talking people into fear is one thing, but that you're spelling them fables on the sleeve, which makes you think you're creating a new security, is even more serious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u54	You know, if we don't do it, despite the numbers you mention, the damage is much greater. A human life, and the grief of the relatives, brothers, sisters, parents and partners, of the people who have died in Brussels and Zaventem, cannot be made up by any amount, by any number, and cannot be compared to it. Even if it is a million vehicles, I think we should make the effort to control them in order to make the Netherlands safe. That's my answer, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u55	It appeared in 2010 that Mr Wilders did not comply with these things. Then he had a cabinet. He always says that when he's in power, zero refugees come in. But then more than 16,000 refugees came in while holding a cabinet hostage. Mr Wilders' proposals respond to fear and give a kind of feasibility of security that is unsubstantiated and unthought-out. What is the biggest problem is that Mr Wilders is today claiming not only the exclusive right to the truth, but also the exclusive right to the grief of what happened in Brussels. I think that more and more people, who do not speak very often, have had enough of that. They have had enough of Mr Wilders' black and white world. If you're Muslim, there are two choices: you're a terrorist or you're a loser. If you are here in parliament, you have two choices: you are PVV'er or you belong to the obedient elite. That is Mr Wilders' world. When you question him himself on his ideas and on what has happened to his views over the past few years, he falls apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u56	I have not been able to find a question in that, but let me say that all possible polls show that the popularity of D66 is not exactly rising. I may even have to worry about it, but for the first time in the history of D66 it appears that 5% of the D66 voters are considering voting for the PVV. It shouldn't be much crazier. I understand from Mr Pechtold's screaming words, because of course he doesn't like it, and that's why he's shouting from the benches that this is painful, but people see that we're right on our side. Also D66'ers, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u57	There are days when I think: how wonderful it would be if you had such an easy world view as Mr Wilders. Then closing the borders for about every problem is the solution. I have once again brought a list that I would like to present to Mr Wilders. Then I want to ask him a question. Chérif and Saïd Kouachi; Amedy Coulibaly; Ishmael Omar Mostefaï; Samy Amimour; Foued Mohamed-Aggad; Bilal Hadfi; Brahim and Salah Abdeslam; Chakib Akrouh; Abdelhamid Abaaoud; Khalid and Ibrahim El Bakraoui. These are the people who committed the attacks on Charlie Hebdo, in Brussels, in Paris and at the Jewish Museum. Do you know what all these people have in common, Mr Wilders, except that they have committed an attack? They are French or Belgian nationals and are born in Europe. In what way would the closure of borders have contributed to the failure of these people to commit these attacks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u58	That's why we're going to have to de-islamize. What you do, if you have a problem...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u59	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u60	No, I'll finish my answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u61	You will have the opportunity in a moment, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u62	I have a point, Mr. Chairman. Mr Wilders is going to elaborate again, but I have a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u63	What you need to do when you have a problem is to turn off the tap first. When you have a leak, first turn off the tap before mopping. When you're mopping with the tap open, it's usually not that effective. So first we have to close the tap. Close the borders for people from Islamic countries and go check. That's step number one. No more asylum seekers to the Netherlands; we have had enough of that. We've seen terrorists come along. Step two is that we will have to de-islamize the Netherlands. We're gonna have to get rid of Islam. We must promote, willingly or unwillingly, that the people who are already in our country, with a culture that is not ours, and who commit such acts, leave our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u64	I had a pretty simple question. I mentioned a list of the bombers. Mr Wilders says that the Prime Minister and all of us are complicit if we are not prepared to really close the borders. He then makes a full argument as to why this is necessary. I would point out that the attackers were all born here or at least have Belgian or French nationality. Once again, I ask my question: what did the closing of the borders, which Mr Wilders mentioned, have helped to prevent these people from carrying out these attacks? I want a very clear answer, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u65	I just gave the answer to that. You have to do two things. You have to make sure you don't bring more people here; closing the borders is number one. Make sure no more terrorists come to the Netherlands. Make sure you close the borders. That will not be the answer Mr Klaver wants to receive on his note, but it is the answer I give. The second is that you have to deal with people who are born here and who have a problem. This applies, for example, to Moroccans. Moroccans often have a dual nationality. Moroccans are also just the facts and figures overrepresented in crime. We believe, whether it is about crime or terror, that after their punishment, which hopefully is very severe, you should denaturalize, take away the Dutch passport, evict the country and send it back to Morocco.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u66	I'm just gonna go back to the question anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u67	Then you'll get the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u68	Mr Wilders is doing a whole show about closing the borders. I have a problem with that. Terrorism is a very complicated problem. Unfortunately, it is in our society itself; it is homegrown, as they say. It was born here. The bombers were born here. If only it were so easy that we could close the borders, that we could send the army there and then it would be solved. The cold reality, however, is that this is not the case. A solution is achieved not only with loud screams, but by working together, by not seeing us all here as opposition, but by seeing how you could work with us, in what way we could make the Netherlands and Europe safer. I repeat my question. Don't beat yourself around the bush, Mr Wilders. I think I actually know the answer. The closure of borders had not contributed to the fact that these people had not committed these attacks, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u69	We should not have opened the borders, we should not have been involved for decades in mass immigration, where GroenLinks, Mr Klaver's party, was always cheering, and we should have stopped a culture that is not ours. I have once accused one of Mr Klaver's predecessors, Mrs Halsema, of being proud in her GroenLinks election programme that Dutch culture does not exist. I can still overwhelm myself that GroenLinks found.I don't know if it's still in the election program.The Dutch culture doesn't exist. Now, Mr Klaver and his party have helped to import the culture of hatred and violence to the Netherlands. If we hadn't, those people might not have been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u70	A brief response from Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u71	You often have to count to ten in a debate with Mr Wilders, but I'm sure I can do it. Mr Wilders, when are you going to acknowledge that these terrorists were born here, that they are not from abroad at all and that they are not imports? These guys were born here. You talk all the time about "watchers." Mr Wilders, if you continue to talk about these terrorists in this way, you will be the only looker here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u72	I just gave the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u73	When I asked Mr Wilders how to close the borders, they did not close. Now, in this debate, Mr Wilders has said several times that we must get rid of Islam, nothing more, nothing less, and that anyone who does not think so is naive, looks away or is jointly responsible. When you ask what measures Mr Wilders wants, he answers that criminal Moroccans should lose dual nationality and that returning terrorists should be locked up. That doesn't match. Mr Wilders also says that we must get rid of Islam. If he doesn't want to be called someone who isn't telling the truth, let him say the same thing. "From Islam" means only one thing: banning a religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u74	It may eventually come of that, but for the time being we will have to ensure that we have as little Islam as possible in the Netherlands. This means, indeed, that we must close the borders for even more Islam, that we must close the borders for immigrants from Islamic countries and that we must no longer allow asylum seekers. As you yourself said, we have previously put forward proposals to denaturalise criminals and thus terrorists after their punishment. We have said: no Islamic schools, no mosques, no Quran and you name it. I believe that over the last ten to fifteen years I have made tens of thousands of proposals which give substance to the concept of de-Islamicisation. You can blame me a lot, but not that I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u75	Now Mr Wilders comes up again with all kinds of proposals. Some proposals you can support and you are against other proposals; you can talk about them, but he didn't just do that. He just said, "We have to get rid of Islam." At least I remember that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u76	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u77	You yourself say that in the long term we may have to ban a religion, but you also say: 'we must get rid of Islam'. If you mean what you say, all Dutch people must believe with you that we are going away from Islam, but you must do the same. Or you should say: there are problems with Islam and here and there we should pay more attention and also tighten up where things go wrong. That is what you are actually doing in your measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u78	Firstly, I do not want anything at all, even if Mr Buma says so. Secondly, there are several roads to Rome; Mr Buma should address this. By the measures I have just mentioned and by making it unattractive here to profess Islam, for example, because it is difficult to enter here, because there will be no more family reunification, because you will find it more difficult to find a mosque, because you will not see Islamic schools, or in any way you will be able to promote the reduction of Islam here and that we will be de-Islamicising. It's possible. Again, I have been advocating this for 15 years. If you have paid attention, you will see that I have already made a hundred proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u79	Mr Buma, your last question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u80	We started this debate with the hard text 'we must get rid of Islam; everyone who does not think so is co-responsible'. I have nothing more to ask, because we're already at the end. That's a whole step of "something less Islam" and "preventing the excesses." Here 150 people want to fight the excesses. Mr Wilders, who says very loudly here that the borders must be closed and that we must get rid of Islam, ends up with measures that we all say are reasonable. Then I would say: be a man, say out loud what you ultimately want in practice and don't use all those bullshit texts around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u81	I am pleased to have the CDA on my side for the reasonable proposals to close mosques, to close Islamic schools, to ban the Qur'an, to close the borders for people from Islamic countries and to stop allowing asylum seekers. It is a gain that I have just heard from Mr Buma that he likes all these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u82	Mr Wilders really said it: 'Islam must be banned in the Netherlands', in the long term or whenever. But then he also talks about Dutch culture. In my view, Dutch culture is characterised by tolerance and tolerance. How does banning a belief fit in a culture that Mr Wilders believes is only the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u83	Again my words are distorted, but the answer is that, if we are to survive as a free country, we must finally learn to be intolerant to the people and ideology that are intolerant to us. One of the tricks of the Netherlands is that we have been tolerant of the intolerant. We have to stop doing that. We must begin to be intolerant and fight back against the intolerant. And Islam is an intolerant ideology. This is demonstrated by the fact that the death penalty is on leaving Islam. It can't be more intolerant and unfreer! So my party, the PVV, says: we must resist Islam. We need to get rid of Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u84	Mr Wilders speaks of freedom, but in this open society you do not have the freedom to confess a religion? I cannot reconcile that, but you will be angry with me, Mr President, if I address Mr Wilders personally to a fact. I want to draw the historical equation again. I can really remember a statement from a person with a name I really prefer not to mention; let me be clear about that too. I prefer not to mention him, but it was precisely the statement made just before the Second World War: we had to be intolerant to intolerant people. That is exactly what is happening here at the moment, in the Dutch parliament, in the Netherlands in 2016! That is deeply and deeply sad!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u85	My colleague's words are the words of my colleague. The historical comparison is flawed for many reasons, but also because we are repeatedly confronted by Islamic terrorists with attacks in the name of the prophet, in the name of the Koran and in the name of Islam on innocent citizens in the Netherlands. My party doesn't accept that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u86	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u87	Nor do I accept the fact that attacks are being carried out in any name. But I also see attacks on mosques in the Netherlands. There's no Moroccan touch to that. There's no Islamic touch to that. Mr Wilders is very easy to get rid of this by saying: you must keep your hands off that. But, Mr Wilders, be a man and tell me what concrete measures you are taking to prevent such terrorist attacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u88	Every terrorist attack is condemned by me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u89	It is becoming increasingly clear that Mr Wilders is unable to make the difference between people who abuse Islam out of political ideology and those who have the freedom to adhere to a religion and to profess a faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u90	What makes you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u91	He says that all Islam must be forbidden. He would therefore delete Article 1 of the Constitution, on freedom of religion. He does that by not making that difference, by putting everyone on the same page and by the fact that people abuse Islam for a political ideology, by shifting it to one and a half million people here in the Netherlands and much more beyond. And still say you don't set people against each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u92	No, I'm not doing any of that. I don't shave people in one comb. I'm shaving an ideology over one comb. And I say, with examples, that the minority allows what the majority does. That was the case with communism, that was the case with national socialism, that was the case with fascism and that is the case with Islam again. That's the reality, whether you like it or not. The PVV wants to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u93	Clearly, if you mention where the problem really is, you won't get the answers. Then you get a whole bunch of blaming all over the Chamber, the whole society and the whole Muslim community. The fact is that you have to tackle the large group of people something abused for committing attacks. That's what you need to take action for. This also has to do with a breeding ground why people radicalize. For an hour, the PVV calls it zero, nothing, nada to tackle the soil. In fact, when he was in the cabinet during Rutte I, he torpedoed all the measures to remove the soil. He was always absent when it came to addressing segregation. And now grumble loudly that there is no proper division in the neighborhoods? He was always present to put integration on the political agenda. All proposals on integration are voted on in a structural manner. He is indeed talking to this whole group of people about guilt, while we here together should tackle the group that abuses it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u94	You come with the same straw as in your interruption 15 minutes ago. That's what you've been preparing. But it's not true. We do not all agree, but we say that the majority allows the minority to do what it does. We need to distance ourselves from that. I mentioned the example of Molenbeek. The fact that such a terrorist can hide in the Muslim community for three months is a disgrace. It should have been reported immediately. I'm surprised you don't think that's a disgrace. I can't repeat it enough. I have mentioned figures which unfortunately show that the majority of Muslims often support everything related to extremism or terror. More than 80% of Turkish youth find Syrians heroes. Heroes! The University of Amsterdam talks about more than 100,000 Dutch Muslims who believe that the use of violence is justified in order to achieve a goal in the name of Islam. That's impossible, isn't it? You can't just wipe that off the table, can you? Our country is devastated by people who can't get past the word "together."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u95	The Mayor of Rotterdam, Mr Aboutaleb, is a Muslim and he speaks out against jihadism and its danger in round terms. Is he a social ally of Mr Wilders or is he his enemy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u96	I have nothing against the mayor of Rotterdam. I agree with some of the things he has said, for example about sending people back and saying: you are not welcome here. The good man, however, also has a bit of two faces. I've said that before in an interview. He said, for example, that he wants his daughter, of course a Muslim, to marry a Muslim man. I do not think that is the model of integration, and in fact I think that is a bit contradictory. So I do not agree with him on many things, but I admit that Mr Aboutaleb often says firm things. But unfortunately, he's one of the exceptions. Again, we have 1 million Muslims in the Netherlands, Mr Segers, 1 million! I expected thousands of people to walk at the Binnenhof, at the Dam in Amsterdam or at the Coolsingel in Rotterdam. They're not here. They're not here!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u97	Mr Aboutaleb is not taking part in this debate and is therefore unable to defend himself. So let's try to be a little careful with that, just to put it bluntly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u98	Mr Aboutaleb is a very vocal participant in the social debate and he speaks out against jihadism in round words. Suppose Mr Wilders is against him or thousands of Muslims who speak against the armed jihad, against the attack in Brussels and against other attacks, what is Mr Wilders' message? I'm your enemy or I'm your friend? Do they have to renounce their faith before they can be his ally, or can that alliance also be concluded in the fight against the armed jihad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u99	Of course, I can never answer that question, because they are not there. Why aren't they there? Because they are silently supporting it; because they have no objections to it; because they somehow think it is justified according to Islam; because the Palestinians or Syria are also bombarded by the Netherlands or any crazy crazy ideas. I'm afraid your question won't come true. That's exactly my point. I wish. They are not there, because the majority silently tolerates the minority at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u100	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u101	It is clear that there is a problem in the Molenbeek Islamic community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u102	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u103	Sure. I have seen at close range that there is radicalisation in the Islamic world. That's obvious. That's an evil. Are we opposed to evil? Are we arguing with the right or the wrong enemies? If you say to someone like Aboutaleb: you have to renounce your faith first and I want to ban your beliefs in the long term, you have just said that, Mr Wilders, you are arguing with the wrong people. We must be a front for people of good will who are fighting against the enemy we have now seen, against jihadism. My question is therefore whether you are prepared to make an alliance with Muslims of good will who, often at risk for their own lives, want to fight against the evil of the jihad. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u104	The best contribution that Muslims can make to fighting Islam is to renounce Islam. That should appeal to you. For example, they should become Christian or atheist. I think a lot of people in your constituency would also want Muslims to convert, change faith, for example, to Christians or atheists. You can't do that. They can't. There's a death sentence on that. That would be a contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u105	I share, quite frankly, Mr Wilders' analysis that there is a problem in Islam, namely in the terms and the manner in which terrorist groups and some of the movements that call themselves "true Islam" use them to engage in actions to undermine or even overthrow our Western democracy. But that's where it ends. After all, an essential part of our free Western democracy is the fact that everyone, Muslim, Christian, Jew, atheist or anyone else, enjoys the same rights and freedoms in this country. Mr Wilders says here that Dutch culture does exist. I agree with that and we must defend it, but is it not also part of the defence of the cultural, liberal values of the Netherlands that everyone in this country, everyone, should have these freedoms and that equality, including the Muslims? I am not talking about extremists, because we have to deal with them. But everyone in this country has equal rights, equal obligations and equal rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u106	These are cultural suicide texts. The leader of the VVD presents cultural suicide texts. We have a culture based on, if you like, Christianity, Judaism and humanism, but not on Islam. I assure you that Islam has one purpose, and that is not to assimilate, not to live with us, but that is to dominate, when Islam has its way. The word "islam" means "dominating, controlling." That's what this is about. I would not want us to give in to this in the Netherlands, which ultimately means that we are losing our freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u107	That's not how it works. If we take the Dutch values seriously, and I take them very seriously, and also think that we should be much more active in promoting them, it is that everyone is equal and everyone has the same freedoms, including freedom of religion. The same applies to Muslims. If you take these values as seriously as you say, then you must stand up for them. You cannot defend these values in words and say in deed that we are perhaps going to abolish the freedom of religion. That is a fundamental value of the Netherlands. How are you going to do that? How will you abolish the freedom of religion in the case of Islam? What will you do if someone doesn't renounce his religion? Are you going to turn these people off? In what way do you intend to shape the de-islamization? Are you going to do this within the core values of Dutch society, within equality and all freedoms? Or are you going to give up the freedoms we've fought for for centuries? That's the last thing you should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u108	Islam is not so much a religion. That's the big mistake the VVD makes over and over again. Islam is not comparable to Christianity, Judaism or humanism. Islam is an ideology, a bloody ideology. In fact, Islam is a totalitarian ideology, because you cannot leave Islam. When you leave Islam, your head goes off, often literally. This is really not the case with Christianity, Judaism or Buddhism. It is a totalitarian ideology that wants to dominate and shape an entire society. And that without working together and without integrating into any society. If we equate Islam with all those other religions, the end is lost. That's why I have the day after I get the VVD what is it? Leave 12 years ago, the same as Pim Fortuyn once proposed: delete Article 1 of the Constitution. Put instead of Article 1 in the Constitution that we have a leitkultur, as the Germans call it. We have a dominant culture in the Netherlands based on Christianity, Judaism and Humanism. I'm in favour of Christian schools, but I'm against Islamic schools. Surely you shouldn't think that those little boys and girls, whom you want to integrate into the Netherlands, are immediately confronted with an ideology of hatred? We must not equate Islam with our culture. Islam wants to destroy our culture, so we have to treat them differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u109	The Islam? That's way too simple, isn't it? There are indeed all kinds of problems from an Islamic angle. Mr Wilders is right about that, and they are also appointed here by many parties, almost by all, I think. We have to deal with these problems very carefully. We have to keep doing that. There are all kinds of elements in the Islamic faith that give rise to this. However, the reality is that a few hundred years ago other beliefs also saw reason to act against their nationals. It's not what I'm interested in. If it is to become an ideology, I would like to go along with you. How do you intend to fight these radical ideological thoughts? Are we going to do this by giving up our own freedoms and our own values? Or are you saying with me that these freedoms, the equality of men and women, homosexuals and heterosexuals, and freedom of religion are part of the essence of the Netherlands and that they will always be defended, including by the PVV? If the answer to that question is "no," you will throw the cultural values for which the Netherlands has fought for hundreds of years, into the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u110	In reply to Mr Zijlstra, let me say the following. There's been research done by a scientist. His name is Ruud Koopmans. I think a lot of people here know him. He works as a professor in Berlin and has done research. That investigation is from 2013. What does the investigation say? That says that 54.5% of Muslims in the Netherlands want to go back to the roots, the basis, of Islam. That research says that 74% of Muslims in the Netherlands believe that only one interpretation of the Koran and Islam is valid. That's three quarters. Can I give you a few quotes from the Qur'an? Sura 8, verse 60: Prepare against them, with whatever you will, and can cope with the strength of horses to terrorize. Sura 47, verse 4: When you meet with the unbelievers, cut your necks, and when you have committed a massacre among them, bind them in chains. Sura 8, verse 39: wage war against them until there is no more temptation and religion belongs entirely to Allah. I can go on for another hour. According to Professor Koopmans, 74.3% of Muslims in the Netherlands believe that there is only one interpretation of "this is her." Mr Zijlstra, if we go along with your cultural relativism, the Netherlands will be destroyed. I'll pass for that. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I have little time now, so I will have to shorten myself when I talk about the terrorist Ibrahim El Bakraoui, who has been evicted from Turkey. He was deported to Schiphol and the Netherlands received a message from the Turks, which said with cow letters: very urgent. But the Netherlands did nothing. The answers do not even show whether the message was opened at the time or even now. Turkey is sending plenty of people to the Netherlands. In 2015, as I read in the answers, 33 out of 39 deportees, which is 80 to 85% of the people who expelled Turkey, had to do with radicalisation or terrorism. 85%! You can almost say that last year everyone who was deported had something to do with terrorism. And yet no alarm bells ringed. How is it possible? What a mistake. How much crazier does it have to be? I'm rounding up. The Netherlands must not become Molenbeek. We need to get rid of our weak leaders. If Mr Rutte does not acknowledge Islam as a cause and if he does not immediately close our borders to the people we do not want here, then I will be forced to table a motion of censure against the entire cabinet in the second term. Enough is enough. It's time to wake up. It is time to finally free the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u111	Madam President. After the theology of just now, I think it is important to return to the suffering that struck Brussels and Europe last week. The barbaric attacks in Brussels have once again caused a shock wave in Europe. Again, people are immersed in mourning, because they lost loved ones. Again there is a city in shock and a country in mourning. The Netherlands sympathizes with the Belgian population. Our Western society has been touched in the heart. Our way of life is the target. Our Jewish Christian values that are inextricably linked to this part of the world, but which have a universal expression, are not accepted by those jihadists. Everywhere they strike. There have been devastating attacks in Baghdad and in Lahore in Pakistan since Tuesday. Only if we are determined to be a front against terror and radicalism can we fight that evil. Then the power of our values and our tradition will prevail. There's a lot at stake. This means that the population must also be able to assume that our society is effectively defended. That starts with international cooperation in this modern society. And it is precisely that which is missing, that is how we have to establish. Today we received the answers to the questions put by the Chamber on Friday. This shows that the international fight against terrorism is a toe-curving amateurism. Every country doesn't give a shit. Everywhere there were parts of information about Ibrahim El Bakraoui, the perpetrator of the Brussels attacks, but nobody came up with the idea of sharing that information. Turkish President Erdogan put our country on the spot by saying shortly after the attacks that the man was expelled by Turkey and that the Netherlands knew that. But the Netherlands says they don't know anything and Belgium says there was no reason for action. Today's answers to the questions show that the FBI reported to the Dutch police about the background of El Bakraoui and his brother a week before the attacks in Brussels. I would like a response from the Prime Minister and the Minister concerned that Belgium has just said that the Netherlands did not then report to Belgium that it received that information about this El Bakraoui from the FBI. What's true about that? How can the Netherlands receive information about a Belgian without passing it on to the Belgian authorities? Meanwhile, it appears that 33 of the 39 expulsions from Turkey in 2015 were related to terrorism. All the alarm bells should have ringed long ago, but apparently it never came up to the Minister to make firm agreements with Turkey on how to deal with such reports. The Prime Minister has spoken on several occasions about the attacks. There is a sentence that keeps returning in his words and that leads to frowning eyebrows among many people, even more and more with me. That's that curious phrase "we're with more." In fact, it is, because fortunately there are more non-than-terrorists. But does it give any sense of security if it turns out that a single person is capable of so persistently sowing death and destruction among many? For example, what should the policeman think of that "we are with more" when every year the police have to fight the terror with less? What does it mean for the prosecutor, who has to leave more and more things on the shelf with fewer and fewer people? Or what does it mean for the Marechaussee, which really has to be in all places in the Netherlands at once? They too will not feel that there are more of us and we can handle it. Defense has only been reduced in recent years, and now, as a stopgap, it has to solve the gaps that the police have dropped due to lack of capacity. But the rack's out. Last Tuesday, after the attacks, the Minister of Finance said: if there is to be money, it has to be for security. Turns out it has to be. There's 300 million too little on the force, and the military can't handle it. Is the Prime Minister prepared, as the Minister of Finance said last week, to make more money available? Then there are the powers. The AIVD has been waiting for the power to tap the cable at all for two years now. The whole of the Netherlands is invested with it, terrorists use it, but the AIVD cannot. The minister walks into and out of the back room, but there's nothing yet. He is currently more concerned with his bill to abolish Sunday rest than with the bill to give the AIVD more powers. I ask the Prime Minister to ensure that that law is still in place this week, not the one on Sunday rest, but the one on the AIVD powers of the House of Representatives. Finally, the possibility to lock up jihad-goers when they return from the areas where they have been. The CDA tabled a motion on this in January. The Minister of Justice was supposed to figure it out, but he hasn't done anything for two months. That motion was not about how, but about how it can no longer be done and that it must be done. I ask the Minister of Justice to carry out this motion and to secure those who come back from Syria to continue their terrorist activities in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u112	I think, of course, that we should always try to think as creatively as possible about what is still possible and that this should not only be done in the context of debates. I note and, I think, Mr Buma with me, that two years ago we got an action plan with 38 points and then we got all over each other with all kinds of things. Mr Buma has just asked Mr Wilders what that means, that the borders should be closed. Now I also think it is important to hear from Mr Buma what it means to lock up without a trial. What's that? How are we going to achieve this in our rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u113	There are a few possibilities for that. In administrative law, there is already the possibility of administrative detention for larger groups. So there is. But that's for a shorter time. That's not enough. There are proposals to regulate it through criminal law, and to use AIVD information, for example, because the AIVD often knows. That's a second. As far as I am concerned, therefore, that question was also asked in January, because of various possibilities that need to be examined. Another option is to facilitate pre-trial detention. Others say it can also be done through the BOPZ. These people often have trauma. They've come back pretty crazy, if I may say so. They're out there. Put them on lockdown until they're done with their problem. There are therefore different legal possibilities. They won't all be perfect. However, I do not understand why the Minister of Justice has not examined what is possible at all. Because I am absolutely convinced that things cannot be done as they are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u114	Yeah, but there's already as much as possible, even in prosecuting terrorists. Finland just convicted someone for being in the picture with two severed heads. The Finnish judge doesn't say he can prove he did. With the help of war law and the integrity of the body, there are plenty of opportunities to deal with such a person. Mr Buma has also mentioned a number of possibilities that we already have. According to my best information, or else I hear it from the Minister, we're already using it. Then why suggest there's more possible than we already have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u115	Let me give you an example. In 2012, I believe, a man from Doesburg was arrested who wanted to leave. That man said he was on his way to see his family in Syria. What did the judge do? He then released him on bail. How did the man get back on the retina? Dead, in Syria. We don't know what he's done in the meantime. So that's the problem. I wish there was a chance to do something about that. First of all, it was just used. Second of all, I wish there was room for it. These kind of people should be in remand. These kind of people need to be locked up, if they want to get out of the country and if they want to go back. If we do not do so, the result will be the tragedy that we are constantly confronted with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u116	Indeed, I am not happy with that example. In fact, it went exactly as the Prime Minister would like: to go out and die, and not to come to court here. But we have a rule of law, and I also speak to the lawyer, Mr Buma. As Mr Buma himself said, you restrict people without suspicion. Without proof, you can put people in jail. Mr. Buma doesn't want to start some kind of Dutch Guantanamo Bay? He wants us to prosecute if there's a suspicion, doesn't he? And we already do. Mr Buma does not want to create a grey zone, where someone is locked up if there is no suspicion or indication of anything? How long is that my follow-up question? Should someone like that be locked up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u117	The fact that Mr Pechtold is now arriving with Guantánamo Bay says more about him than about the ideas presented by the CDA. Guantánamo Bay was about the following. People were arrested in Afghanistan. They were then transferred by plane, preferably via Polish detention centres, to Cuba, where US law did not apply. That's where those people stayed for a long time. That's different from someone who comes back, not letting go of society right away with how much screening around it, but first looking at what kind of meat you have in the cockpit and then letting go of that person. We also do it with people who may be carrying a serious disease. They're required to be quarantined. There are possibilities. You might be able to make the suggestion "this is Guantánamo Bay," but, yeah, we just don't have to do anything. Then we have to leave it that way. But then we keep the trouble. Yeah, we need to take extra steps, unfortunately. We're putting too few, as it turns out. It is the cabinet's mission to explore the possibilities and do more than is currently being done. I have mentioned a number of possibilities that are just legally possible. There's only one question. Do you want it or don't you want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u118	That's exactly my problem. I think people get anxious when we keep yelling that more is possible. If Mr Buma says that we should use our current package of possibilities, I say: of course we can do that. However, Mr Buma suggested in his media statements that he wanted something extra in relation to the current package. Then I ask him for the umpteenth time to formulate it. He himself indicates that group confinements are possible for a limited period of time and that mental health care can be used. He's even using physical health care now. Besides, of course, we can bring in suspects right away. But what does the CDA want in relation to the current toolbox? Otherwise people have the feeling of: the CDA had something in mind and the rest don't want it. However, I still do not see what that extra is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u119	That's what I'm saying. These different possibilities are legal, but it is not possible to use them with this group. I mentioned the administrative arrest, the ggz and the remand. You need to expand those possibilities to make them applicable to this. I rather think that people are frightened and worried by the chaos that the cabinet is currently making, so that someone can walk around everywhere, except where it belongs, namely in the cell. That leads to fear. I therefore believe that the genuine search for solutions and a step further than perhaps the political will of itself to do is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u120	I agree with Mr Buma that the best place for returners is indeed under lock and key, and that we must do our best to contain this danger. However, this must be done through the royal road. If you want to lock someone who has the plan to travel from Doesburg to Turkey because of family visits, the question is immediately how long you want to do that and on what grounds. If Mr Buma says that the provisional detention may be extended, that is a royal road. That goes through the criminal justice system. It could lead to a conviction such as that in February, in which the judge said: the mere fact that you were in Syria, even though you said you were working at a construction company, is sufficient reason for us to come to a conviction. That's the way through the criminal justice system. That is the way of the rule of law. That's a different path than locking up someone with vague plans and vague ideas for a period you don't know how long it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u121	Preliminary detention is at least a possibility, but you'll still get in trouble. I keep saying that you should be able to use AIVD information more to secure the persons. The point is, you know these people are life-threatening. We see, again to these men in Belgium, that the danger also arises. The number of people returning and then going into error is percentageally higher than among the average Dutch. So we have to do something there. That's why I'm saying we need to find more. I find it very valuable to look for the possibility of pre-trial detention, but I say: think also of the ggz and explain its application here. To say in advance "it can't be, because Guantánamo Bay..." is really the total reversal of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u122	That accusation by Guantánamo Bay really has to do with Mr Buma. If he says we're gonna lock people up because they have a vague plan, but then he doesn't know how long it's gonna be and on what grounds it's gonna be, he's gonna suspect it's gonna be a Guantánamo Bay. Something else is if you always do it through the criminal justice system. So it will have to be a choice for the CDA group: is it going through the criminal justice system, is it going through the judge's judgement or is it going through something that can eventually become a Guantánamo Bay in its ultimate consequence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u123	Why this difficult divorce? I just mentioned, for example, the ggz and the mandatory inclusion of people. I can tell Mr Segers that the people who come back and are pretty crazy and often have PTSD. But we don't have to put them in jail. In fact, I have heard during work visits that the family almost yells about it for a mandatory recording. We don't, because these people say, "No, I don't have anything." Sometimes it's not criminal either, but they run around like walking time bombs. If we want to tackle in a very specific way the group that is most dangerous, we will, unfortunately, sometimes have to take steps that we might not have taken a few years ago. The CDA is willing to take those steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u124	The Christian Union Group is also prepared to take steps and will make proposals to that effect. It is true that this is a matter of remand. That's the royal road. The cabinet has previously said that administrative detention is contrary to international law and international treaties. The judge has now ruled that the mere fact that someone has been in the area of ISIS leads to a conviction. I hope that in the end the CDA Group will also opt for the state-of-the-art road, through criminal law, through the criminal justice system, so that we do indeed ensure that people come under lock and key and do not walk freely. However, this will have to be done by the royal route and not by a route of incarceration without knowing where it ends and on what grounds we are doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u125	I mentioned the different possibilities. They're all royal. If not, there are also some imperial ones. They're really good proposals. We have already asked the Minister in January to find out what possibilities it will have in practice. He had two months, but he doesn't do anything. Mr Segers has put forward a proposal which I think is very feasible and very workable. I put a number of proposals aside because I don't think it's covering. Let us see how far we all come to make sure that more is happening than we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u126	I support Mr Buma, as before, in the idea that you should put returners on a solid legal basis as soon as possible. We did ask for an investigation into that. Preliminary detention has been mentioned as a possibility. More opportunities have been suggested, such as more clearly criminalising the residence of terrorists-controlled areas. That was rather a motion from the VVD, co-signed by Mr Buma. Is he still standing in front of that line? Does he want to see if that can still be criminalized on its own?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u127	That too is very valuable, certainly. I wholeheartedly support that. My thesis is: the more majorities we can get into the Chamber, the bigger the toolbox the cabinet gets to execute it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u128	Mr. Chairman. I can't get it out of my head: the image of the blackened subway, while a child cries in the background and keeps crying and people come looking for a safe place. It is tragic, but it is precisely at these moments of sadness that the strength of our solidarity becomes visible. The dividing lines between Walen and Vlamingen, between the Netherlands and Belgium, between Muslim and Christian, between right and left, did not seem to matter. "Even" I say. That was Brussels last week. The Easter days have not brought peace: demonstrations in Brussels, arrests in Rotterdam, new victims of terror in Lahore in Pakistan. The terrorists can't win, but they can hurt us. They can hurt us horribly, like last week in Brussels, earlier in Istanbul and Ankara, before that in Paris and much earlier in Madrid, London and New York. We are doing what we can to prevent attacks in the Netherlands, but we must also be realistic. The attack in Brussels will not be the last, and it can happen in our country too. Still, I'm trying to keep it from getting normal. I don't want to get used to it. I do not want us to have the debate over and over on how to tackle terrorism, that we all make our proposals and move on to the order of the day, until there is another attack. It must not be a ritual, the ritual that right-wingers advocate for heavier weapons and left-wing drinking for tea, which right-wingers advocate for more cops and left-wing teachers, which right-wingers advocate for more repression and left-wing for prevention. Right wants hard and left wants soft. The truth is that, within the requirements of the rule of law, we both need it. If there's any indication of an attack, we're gonna need specialized units capable of adequately armed intervention. Have we had enough of these elite units at the Special Intervention Service? That's the question I'm asking the Prime Minister. If that is not the case, I want us to make additional money available as soon as possible. I do not want to discuss national police now, but one of the consequences of its introduction is the closure of many police stations, especially in vulnerable neighbourhoods. That seems irresponsible to me. How's the Prime Minister looking at this? Why choose especially young men from our neighbourhoods for the sad entrapments of IS? Their choice of radicalisation is also our problem. We must offer them other choices, with education, youth work, jobs and perspective. With our right hand, we need to be tough and be able to strike when necessary. And our left hand must be stretched out urgently and sincerely. Matteo Renzi, the Italian Prime Minister, presented a fine principle in the autumn: for every euro that is put into extra security, an extra euro is also spent on culture, on neighbourhoods and on society. I find that an inspiring thought. Does the Prime Minister agree? I'm coming to Europe. The terrorists do not care about borders and cooperate internationally. Why are they doing this better than our security and intelligence services? El Bakraoui, one of the terrorists at Zaventem Airport, wanted to go to Syria and was stopped by Turkey. He was a known criminal in Belgium, but was not on a list with us. Something has gone terribly wrong here between Turkey, Belgium and the Netherlands. This is symbolic of cooperation in Europe. Can the Minister comment on the VTM News report that the Netherlands did not send the signal it received from the FBI on 16 March? Each country has its own intelligence services. Information is not sufficiently shared. Four countries provide 80% of information on foreign fighters on the Europol list. I ask the Prime Minister, how is that possible? Each country has its own way of identifying and controlling Syrians. Each country has its own island, as if we can solve it ourselves. Other countries are not trusted. After every incident, of course, the promise is made that we will really work together now, but each country retains its own ritual plans. We must work together in Europe. We need to make European agreements on how we collect and share information. We need to harmonise at European level how we deal with Syrians and share how we combat radicalisation at European level. We can do a lot in the short term to improve European cooperation. Can there not be one European list of Syrians and foreign fighters suspected of being capable of terrorism? I'd like to get a response. Can we also ensure that people who are expelled by Turkey cannot choose their own country of arrival? This affects the fundamental debate on security services and intelligence services in Europe. Homeland security is European security. This is a sensitive issue: countries do not want to transfer powers, because the services must be democratically legitimised and controlled. However, we cannot ignore the fact that Europe is failing here. I ask the Prime Minister, as President of the Union, to promote, in the short term, the discussion within the Union on a European intelligence service. The European Union is a community of values of democracy and justice. Can security also be incorporated into this community of values, with legal guarantees for democratic control and protection of human rights? That question deserves an answer in a world that is not free for the time being from brutal violence and ruthless terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u129	As far as the intelligence services are concerned, I wonder whether Mr Klaver could now also agree to extending the powers of the AIVD to the cable, which is regulated in the legislative proposal on which I have just spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u130	We are eagerly looking forward to that bill and will then assess it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u131	Madam President. Our friends have been hit. The neighbors have been hit. They're in mourning and we're in remembrance with them. Our thoughts are also with the people who were previously victims of senseless terror in Paris, Istanbul, Lahore or wherever. This attack so close to home once again justifies the question of safety in the Netherlands. The actions in Rotterdam show that terrorist networks also have their tentacles in our country. What does it say about international cooperation between the services that members of the network could and can still walk around here so many months after the attacks in Paris? The suspected terrorists are known to the police and the security services. They came from a well-known network. How is it possible that the Netherlands did not know before 23 March that the Turkish authorities should not provide information on why a non-Dutch resident is being expelled from Turkey? What kind of madness is this? Why doesn't the Cabinet know this now, after March 23rd? In 2015, five non-Dutch people were already put on a plane to the Netherlands. No question was asked then, because otherwise we would have heard it at the time. Why not? What will the Prime Minister do about this, for example as President of the European Union? Is it true that possibly 2,200 potential terrorists can be deported without difficulty to any Schengen country because they are not on an alert list? The Netherlands received information about two FBI brothers on 16 March. In response to our questions, the Minister says that it has been passed on to the Belgian police. Today, the Belgian police are furious. He wonders what that's like and says she doesn't know anything about this and she doesn't know anything about it. The cabinet says that the procedure followed is vulnerable. I don't call it vulnerable, I call it insane. In addition to better cooperation, much more needs to be done. If we want to prevent new attacks here or elsewhere, we must avoid radicalisation, including in the neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods in our country. What is the Prime Minister's response to the call from mayors of the big cities that there are many shortages in the police? District agents in particular are indispensable to prevent radicalisation. The police unions also speak of large deficits: up to a minimum of EUR 500 million too little to be able to do the job properly. 5,000 police officers are in danger of disappearing if we don't intervene now. Neighborhood cops are the eyes and ears in the neighborhood. They know the young people, the families and the other aid workers, such as those in the youth care sector. There's a lot of cuts in child care, too. Is the Minister prepared to train more district agents and also give them the space to be more present in the neighborhoods? Can the cabinet promise today that there will be more money for the police so that people can feel safe? And is it true that the number of support points for special intervention teams has been reduced from four to two? If there is a threat or an attack in the Netherlands, then these support points should not be at greater distance, but rather at shorter distances. I'd like to hear a response. Many terrorists were born in Europe but have been trained in the Middle East, especially in Syria. Of people who return, we must be sure that they are not a danger. That is why we have proposed that people who return should be obliged to be included in a deradicalisation programme in order to see whether people can return to society and, if so, under what conditions. However, this must always be regulated individually and there must always be a judicial test. You can't protect our rule of law by breaking him down. It is no less important to avoid radicalisation. Because as uncomfortable as it sounds, some of the attackers were born and raised in Europe, in the Brussels and Paris districts. They are neighbourhoods that have long been known as neighbourhoods where young people radicalise. Young people are also radicalising in our neighbourhoods. It is therefore very important to tackle this breeding ground for terror, to increase social control in neighbourhoods and to improve integration, to finally combat segregation, to combat discrimination and disadvantage, and to give young people the feeling that they matter and that they have equal opportunities. It is important to give people who do important neighborhood work the space and means to recognise radicalisation early. And, of course, removing the breeding ground for terrorism also has to do with foreign policy. Former President Bush legitimized his illegal war in Iraq by calling it "the war against terror." We now see that this war has not reduced the threat, but has made it bigger. The number of terrorists fighting for groups such as IS and Al-Qaeda has grown and the ideas of these groups have gained more support. You can never completely remove the threat of an attack. But we can do more, and we need to do more. Our rule of law and democracy must be defended against those who threaten our freedom. That is what we need to do with prevention and with a tough approach. The fight against terror will only be won if we remain 100% behind our own values.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u132	Mr Roemer made a link between Western foreign policy and radicalisation. Now during the past Easter days there has been an attack on a Christian community in Lahore, Pakistan. What is the link with Western foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u133	You can, of course, ask about the link in any attempt, but the figures show that the sympathy for these groups has grown since 2001 which has taken place 'war on terror'. You should not look at people who grow up in the wrong conditions, where they are not sufficiently integrated, and who see that a university is being bombed there, wonder if a victim is worth less there than a victim here. Those numbers don't lie. Since the intensive intervention policy of the West in 2001, it has not become safer and, unfortunately, the sympathy for these groups has grown.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u134	We have just faced Mr Wilders with the whole Chamber when he wanted to ban all Islam and push Muslims away. That's what you have to distinguish between. But I say to Mr Roemer at the same time: this must also be seen as a battle for ideas. The West has pursued a disastrous foreign policy in various periods of history. I call it Vietnam. However, the war in Vietnam did not lead a Vietnamese to blow himself up in a subway in London, Paris or anywhere else. Attacks in Egypt and Pakistan cannot be traced back to Western foreign policy. So there's no one-on-one relationship. It's also a battle for ideas. There is also an ideology behind which legitimizes and encourages violence. That's evil in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u135	I think we're both right. Yeah, it's also ideas that are opposite each other. But the fact is that it has not been safer and better in the whole region since we had this aggressive policy of intervention in the Middle East for more than 15 years. We have seen that Iraq has been invaded under false pretences and that it has not gotten any better. We'd fight the Taliban. They waited in the mountains for the Americans to leave again. It hasn't gotten any safer. We thought that with some kind of spring in Syria and Libya, things would get much better. It hasn't gotten any better. I see what I see there. I think we should all go behind our ears for a moment and ask ourselves whether we should continue in this way. Then my answer is no. We will have to come up with measures, such as an arms embargo, such as bringing people together for peace negotiations, such as cutting off the flow of money for such terrible groups, and so on. All these arguments have been put forward in recent debates. But Mr Segers cannot deny that support for such terrible groups has increased since the war on terror was declared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u136	The fact that Western foreign policy is a factor and that it matters is obvious. But the fact that you're simplifying this and saying that it's the West's fault because of Western foreign policy is far too simple. This ideology of jihadism goes back a hundred years and beyond. It is much older and far more independent of the West than Mr Roemer now assumes. When we face the evil of jihadism, it is also evil within itself, apart from Western foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u137	I object to the claim that we would simplify it. I won't and my party won't. All we're saying is that every step you take to seize something you don't want, you have to look at proportionality and effectiveness. In the last fifteen or twenty years in the Middle East, I see that the West's intervention policy has not worked. The problems are far from being solved. I note that this is also what I am saying: it is partly because of this that the support for terrorist groups has only increased. I can make that point very clear, and I am doing it here in every debate. I'm not doing that alone, my whole group is doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u138	However, I would like to pierce the point made by Mr Segers. Mr Roemer does indeed tend to blame it every time on Western intervention policy. I will be the first to admit that it has not been equally successful everywhere. I'm not saying that for the first time. But in Syria, the West has now intervened, but the conflict in Syria has arisen mainly because we do not intervene. How does Mr Roemer see that? When IS arose, there was no intervention by the West, Russia or anyone else. That's just because Obama said there's a red line, but it's not. How did Mr Roemer compare that with his statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u139	Quite simply, if there was no shortage of one thing in Syria, it was weapons, for example. The whole country has been pounded year after year with Western weapons, Russian weapons, Saudi Arab weapons, you name them. They came from everywhere. It has, of course, become one great wasp nest in the Middle East, where one cannot be seen separately from the other. Groups have been set against each other. It hasn't gotten any better for centuries, especially in recent years. Everything's been bombed by now. What have we achieved in all these years, not only in Afghanistan or Iraq, but also in Syria? Think of Libya, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u140	I understand from Mr Roemer's words that the fact that the Russians have brought entire cargoes of weapons systems there seems to be part of Western foreign policy. When I interpret Mr Roemer's words that we should not intervene properly, I note that the SP is now apparently for realism in foreign policy and that, for example, it is very pleased that Al-Sisi has provided stability in Egypt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u141	Mr Zijlstra can see what he wants and what he wants, but the fact is that in recent years there has been an intervention policy throughout the Middle East, that there have been plenty of weapons there, that there has never been an arms embargo and that all these attacks and interventions have not helped the whole of the Middle East anywhere. By now everything has been bombed, millions of people have fled and an inhumane situation has arisen in all countries in that area. You can't deny that fact, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u142	Mr. Chairman. Another attack, this time in Brussels. After recently in Beirut, Ankara, Istanbul and Paris, it was now in the heart of our southern neighbours and the beating heart of Europe. Four months ago, we mourned the French. Now we stand shoulder to shoulder with the Belgians, because every new attack is an attack against us all, against our way of life and above all against our freedom. If the purpose of the terrorists is to sow fear and division, then they will not succeed, any more than politicians who sow fear and division. Unity and solidarity are ultimately more powerful than unhindered individuals who abuse a religion to hurt our society. But the reality is also that those who want to do harm will always be able to do harm in a free world. You can't win the fight against terrorism. Above all, it is important not to lose that battle. Don't let the terrorists crawl under our skin and control our lives. With respect I listened on the radio last week to the mayor of Amersfoort, where The Passion was performed that night. While the interviewer was increasingly desperate to ask whether the attacks in Brussels did not have a major impact on the security of the event, the mayor continued patiently explaining how they had been preparing in Amersfoort for months sober. Realism won it in that talk of terror panic. People rightly ask whether politics does what is necessary to prevent attacks, especially after the report that one attacker had been evicted by Turkey to the Netherlands and could travel to Belgium unnoticed. The Minister hastened to say that the Netherlands is not blamed. When I read the answers to the 166 questions, I get a very different feeling. I read, for example, on the basis of experience from the Netherlands, that expulsions from Turkey are reported via direct lines. Isn't there a protocol or a written agreement for that? Why did the FBI have to warn us twice and no action was taken yet? Why didn't a ring ring a bell with the Netherlands when the name El Bakraoui became known? Why did Erdogan have to point this out 24 hours later? Finally, I understand that the code associated with the relevant note makes it clear that it was a security issue. Then why is such a note not immediately opened, where it normally happens twice a day? Once again we hear that the attackers were already in the picture with the services. That is a recurring European problem. The exchange of information between European services is insufficient. We can all point to Belgium now, and things are not in order, but that is too simple for me. The services of the different Member States must do better together and coordinate the right information rather than continue to collect information on an unlimited basis. The European Parliament is about to vote on the exchange of passenger data, but the mandatory exchange of data was rejected by the Member States, which was crucial. How did the Netherlands actually vote? How will the Netherlands, as President of the EU, deal with this? I'll continue with the services. Last year the AIVD again exceeded the budget. Building expertise takes time and money. Do the security services have enough room to carry out their duties? The Marechaussee already indicates that there will be a capacity shortage at Schiphol Airport in the summer. The new Chief Constable Akerboom and the mayors are ringing the bell about the police. The district agent is becoming less visible and accessible in the district, where he or she can signal radicalisation. So that's just like the Marechaussee something concrete that we can solve. The cabinet gave us a 38 point plan two years ago to counter jihadism. An important part of this is the law that limits the availability of substances needed for home garden and kitchen bombs, similar to the explosives used in Brussels. When's that law gonna come? So I am not here to impose new measures on the cabinet. The services do their job, but the cabinet has to respond to signals. The Prime Minister knows that if more needs to be done, the Chamber is always willing to think with it, but he must declare it now and not if it goes wrong. I'm rounding up. Since the Hofstadgroep, the terrorist threat has also been manifest in the Netherlands. So yes, the chances of something happening here, there is, and there will remain, no matter how many precautions we take. However, this should never paralyze us. It forces us to do the utmost, but above all it forces us to give a strong reply, because a culture of freedom and solidarity is more powerful than a culture of oppression. So be vigilant, but not defenseless. Don't stay inside because there might be terrorists out there. Don't be led by terror panic. Live your life as you planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u143	We are talking today about the dramas of the terror of Muslim extremists, but in recent times D66 has been crusade against something quite different, namely against everything related to the Christian tradition in this country. That hurts different people in this room. I ask Mr Pechtold whether he is prepared to join forces in the fight against terror and to stop making it increasingly difficult for those who still have a Christian faith in this country at all. So we need to tackle together what is needed, but not those who simply want to profess a faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u144	It's distasteful. I'm gonna use that word anyway. It is appalling and distasteful to compare tackling the Sunday law with terrorism. It is distasteful and it is not worthy of Mr Buma, as I know him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u145	Then maybe it would be a good thing if D66 stopped doing that part of her policy, which is painful for a lot of people. I hear D66 wants to go through with it, but it doesn't lead to anything. As I have just said, the Minister of the Interior is currently not dealing with legislation on terror, but with Sunday legislation. That affects a lot of people. I am simply asking Mr Pechtold to stop doing so. That is a normal question; if he does not want to do so, he will continue bashing everything that has to do with it and focusing on what needs to be done, namely keeping our values up and fighting against what is wrong. If he doesn't want to, I'll leave it to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u146	In the field of the separation of Church and State, my party has for 50 years been doing nothing but what it announces and on which it is elected on the basis of its electoral programme. We always consider minorities, no matter how small they are. Sometimes we ourselves are a minority and expect the same. In all the areas that are at stake today, for example those for whom we like to draw attention, such as homosexuals, refugees or people in a crisis area, we always work with Christian parties to extend it to others, such as Christians, who are also being persecuted. Those comparisons go on, but in a debate on attacks, Mr Buma talks about what we have been very clear about for many years and what we think can be done locally, how to deal with them, and how to deal with terror... If Mr Buma stays there, then we have a big problem. But I know him differently, so as far as I'm concerned, we're just gonna let go of these interruptions and move on to what's important today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u147	One final comment, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u148	Of course, I will not abandon the interruptions, because I note this and I am concerned about the following. As Mr Pechtold himself says, in this society that is so complicated, D66 must also take into account minorities. That's all I'm asking. D66 has been doing nothing but the opposite lately, not only when it comes to the Sunday Act. I note that this is against Mr Pechtold's sore leg, but I really recommend that he look for enemies in this house other than those who still want to uphold a number of traditions in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u149	The followers of D66 know a lot of beliefs. Mr Buma is now addressing my party as a party which, by the way, often together with other liberal or social-democratic parties, carries out its ideas. One thing we have in mind is that we never impose our way of life on others, but that we create the freedom to choose for ourselves. This has been different from many beliefs in the past years, decades and centuries. Don't blame me for trying to separate Church and State, whether it's in the doctor's office or at home or outside, whether it's about expressing your mode or how you want to experience your Sunday. One finds his freedom by walking and reflecting in the forest; you will find it in the church, Mr Buma I respect your choice. Please respect mine as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u150	Finally. Mr Pechtold is now proving that he is indeed concerned with what has gone wrong in the past. It is about minorities now and I ask him to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u151	You've made your point. Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u152	Let me put it this way. I appreciate Mr. Buma's heart doesn't make a murder pit. Apparently, it's very deep with him. However, I also ask him to listen with a little more respect to other political expressions, to the argumentation, but above all to look at the evidence that my party has been putting forward in this area for 50 years. They are based on the idea that you give minorities opportunities and that you do not impose things on them from the past or from a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u153	Madam President. Last week it was the so-called Quiet Week, the week before Easter in which we think of the fact that Jesus gave his life out of love for people. Just that week, jihadists chose death, out of hatred for people. 31 people were murdered in Brussels. The evil of jihadism has once again struck a hole in the hearts of families and families, in the heart of Belgium, in the heart of Europe. We express our condolences here. With many others I pray for everyone affected, for the families of the three Dutch victims, for victims elsewhere in the world, such as this weekend in Lahore and earlier in Ankara, and for everyone who stands for our safety. Tuesday's attack was not the first in Europe. There were already attacks in Paris, Madrid, London. There was also the murder of Theo van Gogh. This attack, I'm afraid, will not be the last. That's what we're up against. We must do this not with barriers, with symbolic politics, but with effective security policy and with policies that are a front for people of good will by standing up against jihadists, who hate freedom and free people, in the belief that our free society is stronger than terror. We have received a response from the government to our many questions about the expulsion of one of the perpetrators, El Bakraoui, to the Netherlands. That image is worrying. Why hasn't anyone asked about the background to this eviction? How can it be that on 15 July Belgium knew about the link with terror, but the Netherlands didn't? Why was El Bakraoui on the American watchlist before here? How was it done the week before the attack, when his name was handed down from the United States? Or, as the messages are coming from Belgium, is that message not true at all? It is very worrying that cooperation between European services and public authorities is still not optimal. Why is it estimated that more than 2,000 European Syrians are not registered? Why are so many European countries left behind? What is the Cabinet going to do to change that? There are many Syrians back in our country: 40 according to the figures. They must be closely monitored by the services. If possible, in the case of the Christian Union, the returnee should also be dealt with through criminal law, and not by setting up a kind of Dutch Guantánamo Bay with administrative detention, but by the royal route along the court: constitutionally and secured in criminal law. I ask the Cabinet to consider how criminal law can be used even better, for example by giving more space to the Public Prosecutor's Office by adapting Article 67, so that, in the case of terrorist offences, a somewhat less severe test applies to pre-trial detention, even after the first 14 days. What does the cabinet do to people who travel to Syria, but are stopped in Turkey and then returned? How is it that the government does not know how many jihad fighters have been deported by Turkey over the past three years? Is there any possibility of obliging returners to participate in a deradicalisation programme, sometimes as part of their punishment? Our first line against the violence of jihadism is the policemen and the people of security services. They do important work, but it's under pressure. We know that the national police are short of money: 300 million according to a recent study. Mayors ring the bell. Is that shortage also a risk to our national security? In any case, I am very concerned about that. For the Dutch approach in the neighbourhoods, the ordinary police work is important. How do we know about radicalisation? It's because moms call the neighborhood cop. In the previous debate on the attacks in Paris, a Christian Union proposal was adopted to invest in such a neighbourhood approach. Have these investments been made or are they still planned? We also asked the cabinet to watch over maintaining knowledge of terrorism in the national police. What has been done about it since November? In addition to an effective security policy, we need a common social front of people of good will, including Muslims who stand for freedom. The struggle against jihadism requires moral leadership, in the Chamber, in society and in the Muslim community. There is also a battle to be fought within Islam. The government can be a partner of freedom-loving Muslims, for example by finally taking steps to stop funding Dutch Salafist groups from unfree countries. Is the Cabinet prepared to take those steps? I'm rounding up. In many Dutch families, in recent days, the same thing has happened in the last week as in my home. My youngest daughter asked me, "Dad, is IS coming to the Netherlands now?" The honest answer is that we cannot rule out an attack here either. Fortunately, however, I can also say that we have good agents and good security services. I can explain to my children that our country is special: a free country, a democratic rule of law, which will not bow to the terrorist agenda. I can explain that this is a battle of ideas and that sooner or later freedom always wins from freedom, that the rule of law is so much better than a caliphate and that justice lasts longer than injustice. And if I don't know how to say so much more, then I can tell my daughter that the Silent Week ends with the morning of Easter, the day of ultimate hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u154	Mr. Chairman. After London, Madrid, Brussels, Paris, Beirut, Paris, Ankara and Istanbul it was now Brussels again. Again the shots and the explosions, again the horrible images and the panic. Again there was this first thought: are they safe? Again there were the calls, this time more numerous and more intrusive than in other attacks, because this was closer. This time there were more people you knew would take that subway that morning. Once again there was that horror, there was that mourning, there was that compassion. In the past week, there was a sigh in the ears that it will get used to. This isn't getting used to. This shouldn't get used to. This doesn't belong in our society. This is what we have to fight, with everything we have in us. What should not get used to are the well-known tirades after the attack: against Islam, against the Muslims. Responding to hate with even more hatred: the air for a few maybe up, but more division increases our problem rather than narrowing it down. Nor do I want to give in to panic measures: a fence around the country or secure it without trial. You can't protect our freedom by restricting her. The rule of law doesn't hold you high by undermining him. So this is the test that society stands for, which we stand for: unity against the divisions that the extremists are sowing, control over the panic that terrorists want. So we must also leave the false contradiction between the hard and the soft approach. Both are necessary. The PvdA was therefore already in agreement with the balanced approach adopted in the action plan against jihadism one and a half years ago. This has resisted the naivety of the threat posed by hardened terrorists, but also the populist laugh about tea-drinking neighbourhood workers. So that action plan chose to extend the military force to include more powers for the justice and security services, but also to focus more on those other instruments of precision against terrorism: the teacher, the district agent and the street coach. It's like removing a splinter from your finger: you do it with a sharp eye and a tweezers, not with a blindfold and a sledgehammer. I am not going to propose any new major measures from here today. I would ask the Cabinet to monitor the progress of all measures more closely, because not all of its intentions have yet been translated into action. We all continue to look for new tightenings and new opportunities; opportunities to hold back jihadists, for example. The possibilities of the detention, which Mr Segers has already mentioned, can be improved. This must not be done haphazardly, but with care; the care that the rule of law requires of us. As far as my group is concerned, particular attention must be paid to European cooperation. The plan to exchange information and other forms of cooperation is now in danger of becoming a ruin of powerlessness in Europe. The noncommittality just doesn't work. Cooperation in Europe must be made more binding, otherwise nothing will come of it. This is most painful in the course of the terrorist El Bakraoui, an ex-criminal, who was arrested at the Syrian border. He returned to Belgium without being seen through the Netherlands. That's not possible. It is good that the cabinet now wants to make agreements with the Turkish authorities, but the whole leaves an uncomfortable feeling and also questions. What about, for example, the information the FBI gave a week before the attacks on this man and his brother? Why was the Netherlands informed about this? What happened to that information? We can do more to combat terrorism and prevent attacks. We'll do more, too, wherever we need to. The uncomfortable truth is that 100% security doesn't exist. Our free, tolerant and pluralistic society is vulnerable. Despite all the efforts, a few lunatics can always escape our attention. The terrorists who struck in Brussels could also have driven north. Those are terrifying thoughts. You cannot deny that fear, but you can counter it: our self-confidence and the realization that our soft values of democracy, equality and freedom in all their vulnerability are very strong, stronger than the hatred of the extremists. This must make us determined; determined not to let us play against each other; determined to live our lives as we wish, to be proud of who we are and not to turn a millimeter away from terror.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u155	Mr. Chairman. After the terrible terrorist attack in Brussels, as well as the terrible attacks in Paris, we saw and we see too many people shooting into an anti-Muslim reflex. That is, of course, downright sad. We saw it today in the Lower House. Mr Wilders is not here now, but he was talking about banning Islam in the long term. I say to him: Islam has existed for 1,400 years. He will remain forever. Your predecessors, Mr Wilders, have failed and neither you nor your financiers nor your clients will succeed in erasing Islam. Because if Islam does not exist, everything that the Netherlands stands for will also be destroyed. I would urge the Prime Minister to firmly distance himself from what Mr Wilders said today in the House of Representatives. I sometimes wonder if PVV roommates are not ashamed when they look in the eyes of the security guards in the morning. If something happens, which of course I do not hope, they will also work for our security, just as Ahmed Merabet did in Paris. Ahmed Merabet was a police officer in the 11th arrondissement of Paris. He was the victim of a cowardly and inhumane attack on Charlie Hebdo. Kemal Bulut was the father of Galatasaray-spits Umut Bulut. As a proud father he visited his son's game, but on his way home he was killed by the terrible bombing in Ankara. These are just horrible acts of terrorism. Unfortunately, the list seems endless. However, it hurts us to see that such attacks involve selective solidarity. We have rightly deplored the victims of the terrorist attacks in Brussels over the last period, but unfortunately we did not see the same solidarity in the attacks in Ankara, Istanbul, Grand Bassam, Lahore, Baghdad and the rest of the world. Why, we're wondering. Is a life in Paris or Brussels worth more than a lifetime in Ankara or Lahore? Is the pain of the next of kin in Lahore less severe? No, the pain that the terror brings is equally terrible anywhere in the world. I'm rounding up. Let us set an example. We must show those who are selective in our solidarity that we do not make a distinction when it comes to terrorism. 'Cause terror has no color. Terror knows no religion. And terror, as it turns out, knows no bounds. Let us show the humanity that should be shown after every terrorist attack. Let us unite against the discord that is in danger of being sown here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u156	Madam President. The day after the horrible attacks in Brussels, a new police chief, Erik Akerboom, was installed in our country. During the ceremony in the Knight's Room, a minute's silence was held to commemorate the victims of the Brussels attacks. Shortly before that minute of silence, the police orchestra showed impressive music. It was the melody of a famous coral from the Matthäus Passion of Bach: O head full of blood and wounds. Indeed, what blood and wounds there were that ink black day in Brussels, at the airport and in the metro station, and what suffering for victims and relatives. We heartily sympathize with them; connected in grief and in thoughts and prayers we are close to them. We are also thinking of the victims of the horrific violence on the first Easter day in Pakistan, where Christians are always targeting hateful jihadists. If Pakistan is called upon and supported in improving the protection of its citizens, I ask the Foreign Minister. We feel connected in determination to fight barbaric terror. The radical Islam promises peace and a state of salvation, but brings nothing but disaster, death and destruction. This evil must be combated in Iraq, Syria and wherever. Fortunately, many people in our own country are also making huge efforts to prevent attacks and to strengthen security: brave marechaussees, awake neighbourhood agents, resourceful security people. It may also be said today, and I say it in Flemish: we are extremely proud of these people. However, we must always look critically at what can be done better in the fight against terrorism. I am thinking first of all of good international information exchange. The petty and extremely slow conduct of one of the attackers who had previously been evicted by Turkey gives little confidence. How can someone who is being deported be allowed to choose which country? Meanwhile, the receiving country is in the dark touching on the reason for the expulsion. A terrorist suspect is presented with an attractive country choice menu, while the country of destination can get a terrorist split in the stomach without knowing it. How do you make that up? Why has the Netherlands ever agreed to this? Why has no more action been taken? The FBI report to the Netherlands would not have gotten through to Belgium. Can the cabinet respond to that? European Minister has once again made good promises and intentions about better information exchange. But how credible is that, when the sense of urgency seems to fall so easily over and over again? It is certainly true: we have no use for flame politics, a beautiful word that I encountered on Belgian sites. If there is a major disaster, new measures are suddenly required. Indeed, not a flash-flamm policy, but it is painful that the new chief of police indicated that the police are suffering from structural underfunding. Mayors and the D.A. have expressed their concerns. Is the cabinet hearing their call for more district agents and extra police capacity? The toolbox of our legislation must also be better filled. More is needed to secure returned Syrians. Does the Cabinet recognize this? Is it prepared to continue packing? Is the cabinet now prepared to criminalise the residence in IS area? It is our expensive duty to do everything possible to prevent terrorism and to prevent more blood and wounds; alert, vigilant, serviceable. That responsibility is great, but there is more than politics. On Good Friday many have again heard the sounds of the Matthew Passion. Many have visited church services in the past few days. When we hear about Christ's crucifixion, his head full of blood and wounds, it doesn't scare, but then it fills it with love and hope; well-founded hope that sorrow passes away, that tears of eyes are wiped away. The acts of ISIS and other terrorist groups are horrific, but they are ultimately convulsions. Evil does not have the last word, for the good news is: it has become Easter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u157	Mr. Chairman. This attack hits us all again. The Party for Animals deeply sympathizes with the victims and survivors of the attacks in Brussels-Zaventem. Terrorism is terrifying, by definition. Its sole purpose is to drive distraught and irrational fear. When we let fear rule us, the terrorists have won. Common sense must regain the win of anger and fear, it must begin to win the reflex of retribution. For example, bombardments as retaliation are not the solution. In a society in which young people are derailed and radicalised, terrorism cannot be combated through ever-increasing repression. Taking away our freedoms is not going to give us more security. Look at America's response to the September 11 attacks, the Patriot Act. This law greatly restricted the privacy of citizens. Experts say that the Patriot Act only played terrorism further and did not fight. If the connective tissue of our society is affected, the cause of this problem will have to be removed. We will have to restore the connective tissue of our society, not replace it with a harness. Responding to violence with violence can only lead to escalation. It gives the groups who are inspired the feeling that their disgusting acts are successful. We shouldn't let unsubs and potential offenders do that. We must not expose our society to it. Last week, Bert Wagendorp in the Volkskrant rightly wrote that, in order to end the fear of young men with pushcarts full of explosives and heads full of delusions in Western capitals, we must put an end to the military conflict in Syria and Iraq. He's quoting scientist Robert Pape from the Chicago Project on Security and Terrorism. According to Pape, 95% of all suicide attacks since 1980 have been carried out in the context of war over a country or territory, and so not so much as a weapon in an ideological or religious struggle. Religion comes in handy for the military strategists. They can manipulate simple souls in such a way that they are willing to blow themselves up. Most leaders of ISIS, Dad says, are pragmatically thinking soldiers, not fundamentalist clergymen. Claiming that terror is directed at our open society distracts attention from the fact that we are at war in the Middle East. Accessing more people, restricting more civil liberties, giving more power to security services to do what they think is right without proper democratic control threatens the freedom and security of all citizens. When we give up our privacy and our constitutional principles, we give up the most important part of our security. We must remain true to the values we want to protect. "There are more of us," said the Prime Minister. I understand his words, but a small group of terrorists can disrupt a whole society. So it's not so much a numerical contradiction. The men who committed the attacks in Brussels were known to the intelligence services. We knew that in Belgium, particularly in Brussels, there was a danger of an attack. It couldn't have saved us from such an attack. I would like to know from the cabinet whether it is willing to actively build a society that includes ghetto formation as in Molenbeek. A society where we do not cut back on police but invest in district agents, as the mayors of the ten major cities argued last week. A society where connection is a more powerful weapon than repression. A society in which young people do not derail but have perspective. A society with respect for everyone's belief in life, but also with sufficient guarantees that the freedoms of one are not at the expense of the freedom of others. There are no easy solutions to the problems caused by derailed young people. But it is our firm belief that getting the lives of young people back on track without perspective, without a sense of reality or without a workable ethical awareness is one of the great challenges of our time. I am not trying to mitigate or understand the serious crimes in any way, but the Animal Party is very convinced that only the removal of the great sources of unease of this time can contribute to the serious escalating violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u158	Mr. Chairman. The attack in Brussels was yet another attack on our way of life. An attack on our freedom. The world is shocked for the umpteenth time, but can no longer be surprised. Due to the huge immigration flows of the past decades, we see clashing cultures in our own cities. Not missing an internship is the cause of this violence. No, there is a clash between the belief in Western freedom and the extremist aversion of that freedom. The link between the massacres in Brussels and the source from which they arise cannot be denied. Jihad is part of Islam, but Prime Minister Rutte did not even mention Islam in his response to the attacks. Our prime minister is the political correctness that has become fleshed out. A terrorist could hide in a Brussels residential area for months because the area was silent. The loyalty of the people there was with the terrorists. I would like to hear from the Minister whether this problem also arises in the neighbourhoods of the Netherlands. What happened in Brussels last week could happen in the Netherlands next week. Jihadists can walk into and out of our country unseen. The FBI warned the police about the terror brothers, but Minister Van der Steur did nothing. The weakest minister of this cabinet failed again. The helm really needs to change. VNL therefore proposes the following. Firstly, invest 6 billion more in police and defence. Double the budget for the intelligence services. Secondly, ensure the permanent visibility of heavily armed police, military and military forces. Thirdly, enter administrative detention. Pick up potential terrorists. Our group has been advocating this for a year and a half. Fourthly, close the borders for returning Syrians. Shut down violence mosques and forbid any preacher of violence from entering our country. Fifth: catch asylum seekers exclusively in their own region. Sixth, destroy IS. Get rid of them in the NATO context. We've talked enough. We've had enough debate. It's time for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u159	Mr. Chairman. Barely recovered from the attacks in Paris and Istanbul, we were once again shocked by violence last week. New footage. This time from Brussels. Even closer, actually around the corner. Brussels is, from this place, closer than our own Maastricht or Groningen. People who were unsuspectingly on their way to work, to school, or lined up to check in for a business trip or a vacation. They lost their lives or were wounded in these cruel and pointless attacks. Among them also three Dutch. Our thoughts go out to their neighbors. The terror comes so very close, so it is almost impossible not to think about it when you get on the train or stand at an airport yourself. Anyone can imagine that. The carefree self-evidentness with which we did so before these attacks, you didn't even think about it. However, I can imagine that everyone is thinking about this now. That's just purely human. That's what terror does to us. We are aware that the same may happen to us or our fellow citizens as what happened in Brussels last week. For example, terrorists seem to slowly grasp our sense of freedom and security. And that's exactly what shouldn't happen, no matter how hard it is. Because it makes sense for these terrorists to frighten us. We can hardly imagine that people are capable of this kind of evil and consciously choose not to live in freedom as we are used to, but to make gruesome plans to threaten or end the lives of innocent people. But we cannot and will not stand idly by and watch fear take hold of our society, as terrorists try to overthrow our rule of law. Radical extremist Islamic groups are a major threat to our free, liberal society. They spread a religious ideological poison and they threaten our way of life. We must therefore fight them by all means, but not by sacrificing our own freedoms and our own values by doing so. The VVD is prepared to take far-reaching measures to tackle and combat this type of extremism, but if we let go or deny our own freedoms and our own values, we have lost. The cabinet combats this Islamic extremist poison with a broad package and a broad approach in many areas, soft and hard, visible and invisible. This is reflected, for example, in the 38 measures already announced in 2014 in the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. We also participate in the fights against this evil in Syria through our participation in the coalition against IS. We're gonna take on those who want to fight with ISIS. We're trying to avoid that by deradicalizing them. We'll stop them from travelling out. If they succeed, we want to criminalise the pure fact that they have been present on terrorist territory. We also want to prevent them from returning by taking away the Dutchmanship. The law for this purpose has recently been adopted by the Upper House; now the Lower House. If they do return, they must be able to be detained and prosecuted as far as the VVD is concerned. This requires an approach in which the simple fact that people have voluntarily been present on terrorist territory is grounds for prosecution. To date, the majority of the Chamber did not want to go along with this. I sincerely hope that this will be different by now. I am happy, as has been proposed today, to extend the duration of remand. But then one must be able to be taken into custody first. That is not the case at the moment in all cases. I ask the Cabinet to look at this with all the legal creativity to ensure that this becomes possible. We recently heard a ruling from the judge in Arnhem on 15 March which shows that there are indeed legal grounds for doing so. We, as legislators, should not wait for the interpretation of a judge. As a legislative power, we should clearly state why we, as a parliament, consider this important. How's that going? Can you do that by reversing the burden of proof? The fact that you've been there is a crime. If you go as a journalist or as a preacher in this case, I am referring to the example of the Christian preacher who was present in Aleppo. If you didn't, you've got the wrong intentions. We have a duty to investigate all possibilities to put these kinds of terrorists behind bars. The Netherlands has good professionals, that day out monitor what is happening in our country and whether we are doing enough to protect our security. Between the terrorists and us, we who live in freedom, are police and police officers, who are taking a step forward to protect us as best we can. As well as possible, because we realize that the risk of an attack is always present. In doing so, I say to the government, they must have all possible means. The question is therefore also why the adaptation of the Wiv, the Intelligence and Security Services Act, is still not there. Cable-related supervision under the right conditions must now be regulated. Why isn't the law here yet? Finally. Turkey has arrested one of the Belgian attackers at the Syrian border and put them on a plane to the Netherlands. Its settlement did not go well. We can't allow such a report to get between ship and ship. The image of countries that are shifting responsibility towards each other makes me very unsatisfying and I think many people in this country. What happened? Who was on the buttons? Could we have prevented this? Sometimes things go wrong, and I can accept that too, but let's just say that. This needs to be better regulated at European level. This kind of "in-between-walk-and-ship business" just can't. Mr. Chairman. From this place, I wish our southern neighbors all the strength to overcome these attacks. The scars will not disappear, but one day life will return to its normal course. What we share is that we are a sober, strong and resilient people, just when we are threatened. We will never, ever bow to terror. We will always stand for our values and our freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u160	Madam President. After previous attacks in many places in the world, last week we were shocked by the terrible attacks in Brussels. It's getting really close right now, with a violent act less than 60 km from our border. It makes sense that this creates extra fear. Our condolences go out to everyone involved. The following quote is part of the government mission: "In our democratic rule of law, it is important for people and civil society organisations to be able to develop in freedom and security." That's exactly what we're talking about right now. The big question here and at home is: how can we guarantee this security without capitulating, but precisely by maintaining our democratic rule of law and our standards and values proudly? At this time, 50PLUS cannot justify cutting back on security, police, justice and defence. That is exactly what this cabinet has done. Can the Cabinet explain why it did that? If so, does it still support this under the present circumstances? Associated Press revealed last week that at least 400 fighters would have been trained to kill Europe. She's talking about a network that's ready to wait orders from above. If so, everything that has happened in the past period is just a harbinger of what awaits us. I understand that, for strategic reasons, the cabinet has little to say about it, but the crucial question is: are our services and European services prepared for this? The European Anti-Terrorism Coordinator recently stated that the exchange of information is disproportionate to the terrorist threat. The European anti-terror unit is undermanned. European legislation and thus national legislation remain on the shelf for years. Existing data files are not used sufficiently. Information is not shared and procedures are not followed. We are now reaping the bitter fruit of that. What is the Minister going to do to drive this forward, not just in the form of European legislation? I also refer to exchanges with non-EU countries, such as Turkey. How desirable is it that an undesirable person from a Schengen country should be able to choose which Schengen country he is to be deported to, as has happened in this case? In reply to question 13, the Minister for Security and Justice explains this, but does he agree that this causes dangerous confusion and that dangerous persons disappear from the picture? These services can't do it alone, even if they work better. We have to do it together. I am thinking, for example, of the teacher calling the bell when he has been missing students for several days and wondering if they have perhaps been radicalised. I am also thinking of the soccer trainer who dares to talk about our values and values, and of the elderly who help young people with a different cultural background to become aware of our society. 50PLUS is considering, weighing everything up, supporting the proposal to lock up or include returned Syrians preventively. What possibilities does the cabinet see for this under the rules of the democratic rule of law? As far as we know, the cabinet is not in favour of this, but we would like to know what possibilities there are so that the Chamber can decide on this. 50PLUS agrees with the Prime Minister's call to continue our way of life as far as possible. Literally he said: "That is why it is so important that democratic societies stand firm for the values of freedom, civilisation and openness. We need to be vigilant and sharp, and we are taking additional measures if necessary. But the fear may and will not govern us." Madam President, let us all fight for the fact that these horrible attacks that we are facing more and more often never get used to. With all of us, without division into society. I am afraid that this is the aim of the attackers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u161	Mr. Chairman. We live in a world of danger. That is just like yesterday, and it is no different than before, when happiness was still very common. If we are not killed by natural disasters, then it is other things like traffic accidents, violence and terror that are trying to floor us. Today we are focusing on terror, terror committed by some who decide to pursue their utopian or non-religious ideals by force. Unfortunately, that too is of all times. The suffering they cause is great. We've been able to see that for the last few days, months and years. Dozens dead, hundreds injured: making as many victims as possible seems to be the main goal. It seems, for anyone who looks further sees the real danger posed by terrorism, namely the sowing of divisions. Terrorists want us to get scared. Their aim is to destroy the things that characterize and free our free society: free travel, free speech, freedom of speech, meeting on public occasions. They want us to be so scared that we are throwing overboard the most important guarantees offered to us by free society, privacy and legal protection, for example by closing the borders, increasing the listening possibilities and putting people in more and more preventive detention. Those are not solutions. Risks continue to be risks and call for the exclusion of these risks, is cheating people. We must admit: yes, we must continue to defend ourselves, but the terrorists have actually achieved their goal at the time when we voluntarily begin to crawl over our freedoms. We, the wise politicians in particular, must keep a cool head in this context. In conclusion, I quote. "If you really want to understand the destructive effects of terrorism, you must focus on the state's response. The state which gradually transforms open and relatively free societies into police states in the name of counter-terrorism gives terrorists their way." Arnon Grunberg wrote that in the Volkskrant last Wednesday. And so it is. I don't need more than a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u162	Well, you did... Never mind. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u163	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few introductory remarks. Then I will answer a single question on the financing of the intelligence and security services, on whether there should be a European Security Service and on the Intelligence and Security Services Act (Wiv). The bulk of the response will then be taken over by the Minister for Security and Justice. I would ask you to give the floor to the Foreign Minister to answer one more question. Let's start with a few small remarks. May I say that the emotions are still fresh and that last Tuesday's terrible attacks are still on our retina? I heard this from many speakers in the first term of the Chamber. I can see it here, also in this house, in this debate. I feel the same way myself. As I said last week, Belgium is more than just a neighbouring country. Brussels is the heart of Europe. The victims came from everywhere. We now know that three Dutch people were killed during the attacks. This brings it literally and figuratively very close. My thoughts are also with the next of kin, the family and the friends, of all the victims and of course also those of the Dutch who died. Against this background, it is logical and also good that we are having this debate and that we are wondering what this means for our country. What does it mean for safety? Can you still go to work safely? Can you still go to the movies safely? What do you have to do when you see something suspicious on the street? Are we doing enough for safety? Those are important and understandable questions after such a terrible event. Before I answer some of the questions asked, I would like to mention a more general point. I said last Tuesday here in the Chamber, at two o'clock in the afternoon, so very shortly after the attacks that morning, also with a reference to previous attacks in all kinds of places in Europe, in Turkey, even though we have to be real and our way of life is really under attack. It is true that this includes strict security measures. This includes alertness; see also the action yesterday in Rotterdam. Of course, there is always a discussion about whether there are enough people to guarantee that security and to make sure that we do everything we can to prevent an attack. It also includes an approach that ensures that we have potential for every extremist who is a threat to our society and that we do everything we can to prevent an attack. At the same time, there can be no guarantee that there will never be an attack in the Netherlands. We can only guarantee to the Netherlands here, Chamber and Cabinet, that we will do everything we can to prevent an attack. It is not just about preventing an attack; it is also about our way of life. It is about our free society, about not giving that free society away to fear. It is about ensuring that fear does not reign, because then we do exactly what the terrorists want us to do. In the first term of the Chamber there was a nice discussion on Article 1 of the Constitution. Can I say the following, Mr President, because this is a relevant discussion that has already been brought up and needs to be conducted? I am in favour of maintaining Article 1 of the Constitution, let me put it first. I love our country very much, in which people can make something of their lives, decide what ideas they have, what they do with it, what faith they exercise, in which they will never be addressed to things they get from birth, such as their sexual orientation, but in which they can make the choice they want to make and which suits them. I have said before that we live in perhaps one of the most free countries in the world. One of the reasons why the Netherlands has been seen in the world is our creativity, the fact that people can pursue crazy ideas and take any initiative they want to take as long as they stay within the law. However, "staying within the law" is very essential. Because there's something else that goes with it. If you use your faith, beliefs or ideas to impose your ideas on others, if, worse still, you use force to impose those ideas on others, or if, worse still, you commit terrorist acts, that same free society will turn against you with all its power and power to stop you and to protect and defend that free society. That too is Article 1 of the Constitution. That is what I wanted to say about this relevant discussion, which we must also have with each other, because a Constitution is only alive if we also discuss important articles such as Article 1 regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u164	Let me remind you of what the Prime Minister said after the attacks in Paris. Then he said, "We're at war." Is he repeating those words now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u165	I said that in a whole context. It was, of course, about our actions in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u166	I say that because, when we are at war, you can at least expect us to know who is being sent to the Netherlands by a country like Turkey, to name but a very small one. They're little things, but they all didn't happen. Then you make sure that the legislation for the AIVD is in maximum order, but that has not happened. The minister said we were at war. Is that still true? And if so, will he now finally take the measures that are part of such bold statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u167	There are a lot of assumptions in that question that I really don't recognize. The Minister for Security and Justice will shortly address the question of what stage all kinds of laws are at. With the Intelligence and Security Services Act, the story is more nuanced, but with many other laws we are on track. The Minister for Security and Justice will take that up shortly. So I do not recognize myself in the reproach that lies under this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u168	Below is the statement that the Prime Minister made at the time, namely that we are at war, was picked up by many people at the time. I heard that one, too. You make that statement with all the consequences or you don't do it. I note that the Prime Minister did not repeat that statement in these terrible attacks. I don't mind that, but what is the difference between then and now, both in measures and in statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u169	I fully support the verdict I made at the time. The cabinet takes all the necessary measures and always considers the necessary funding of services, police and so on. This will be discussed in detail shortly. But again, in Mr Buma's question there are some underlying accusations in which I do not recognize myself. I shall now turn to a few questions. Let me start with the question about the Intelligence and Security Services Act, which is in line with Mr Buma's question. This bill has now been the subject of an internet consultation, as agreed with the Chamber. 1,100 responses were received. A privacy impact assessment (PIA) has also been carried out at the request of the Chamber. That was necessary because it concerns very sensitive legislation that strikes the balance between security and privacy. We're processing all that information. Within two to three weeks, the bill will go to the Council of State. Couldn't it have gone any faster? It could have been quicker, but I'll explain why we didn't. Intrinsically, the cabinet considers it crucial that we take these steps, so that we look at privacy and that balance and that we give a serious answer to the 1,100 responses to the internet consultation. There is also a political rationality behind it. It is our belief that, apart from that intrinsic motivation, it is also better to follow this route. If we had already decided to take a few shortcuts, our political assessment is that there would be no majority for this bill either in this house or on the other side of the Binnenhof. As a government, we must always ask ourselves how we can obtain a sufficient parliamentary majority, regardless of our own belief that we must proceed with great care. The short answer to Mr Buma and others is that the bill goes to the Council of State within two to three weeks. On 12 April, the Under-Council was discussed, on 15 April the Council of Ministers and then on to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u170	It is shortly after the last interruption, but I have a question on this particular point. All this, of course, is no reason to do two years about that law. The report from which this came out as a necessary legislative proposal dates back to 2013. At that time it might have taken six months, but it is now two years ago. According to the Minister of the Interior, he walked through all the backrooms here a year ago because he was afraid that Lower House Groups would vote against it, but a cabinet that rules, serves a law and tries to run the Chamber. The minister can do another round and then see if he gets support through the back rooms. My advice to the Prime Minister is: send it this week, because those 1,100 consultations should always be there. The groups that think it is not important simply vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u171	If I'd run the CDA way, we wouldn't have gotten reform through the Chamber. I really think it's an incomprehensible reaction. A question has been asked about the capacity of the AIVD and other services. With the latest intensifications, the AIVD has a sufficient budget to deal with the threat both in the medium and long term. The same applies to the STUDY. A lot of resources have been added to that. We decided at the beginning of last year to step up almost 130 million. Based on the current situation and assignment, the KMar is also able to carry out its core tasks, including border surveillance. There, too, considerable extra money has been made available under the almost EUR 130 million added last year. Finally, I come to the question about the European Security Service. That thought comes up here and there, but I see that Mr Pechtold wants to come back to the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u172	Maybe you can finish your sentence first. Oh, it's about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u173	The Prime Minister is now saying so quickly that there are no problems with the Royal Marechaussee either. What about the signals I asked for in the first term that there might be a capacity problem at Schiphol Airport this summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u174	Sometimes there is a short period of time, which has to do with the high influx of asylum. It has led to periods of tightness, but the KMar tells me that, on the basis of the current situation and assignment, it can carry out its core tasks, including border surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u175	So the signals that the summer could go wrong in the event of extra crowds are unfounded. It's early in the spring now. The Prime Minister now states that in the summer recess we do not suddenly run into this and then use a string of people who have not been trained to do so, for border surveillance at a time when many Dutch people, especially when they are at Schiphol Airport or in other places where the Royal Marechaussee is active, want adequate staff, especially there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u176	I'll come back to that question. According to the information I have, the answer should be yes. However, Mr Pechtold asks his question so urgently that I think it is correct to double-check the correct answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u177	The Prime Minister is going through some of our first-line guards on our security as quickly as possible. He says there are no problems. At the same time, there is a huge shortage in the police. He says that the Minister is coming up with that, but I am also addressing the Prime Minister because it is a major problem on which we can address not only the trade minister, but also the primus inter pares, the Prime Minister, who is talking about budgets. A choice will have to be made. If we give up that high on the neighborhood cop, on the front of the police to guard security, then this question is also on the table in all seriousness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u178	I understand that, but it also makes sense for the speed of the debate that one of the rulers should respond. That's what the Minister of Security and Justice does. What he's going to say has my support from a to z.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u179	This is about the entire cabinet budget. This is not about what can be moved within the budget of Security and Justice in favour of the police, but it is about priorities within the cabinet. It's not five to twelve now, it's five to twelve. We'll be there after the attack. If we see that our neighborhood agents make a difference, then the Prime Minister cannot say: I refer you to that and I do not make a ruling on it? It is important that confidence-building signals are given here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u180	Again, you have invited several rulers into the Chamber. We have divided the tasks. I am not going to make preliminary comments on all the questions that others are going to answer. If that's what I'm asked, I'd better have the debate on my own. Then I'm going to change my title to Secretary of State for All Affairs instead of Secretary of State for General Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u181	I have another question for the Secretary of State. That's not all that matters, but the prime minister is in charge of the military this evening. He says they are now able to carry out their core tasks. At the same time, we have already seen that more and more is coming towards them, for example when it comes to border controls and surveillance. The question is whether there is sufficient racket in the possibilities to deploy extra military forces in the future. Wouldn't there be a need to step up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u182	Last year, of course, the additional 128.3 million was released for the AIVD, the STUDY and the KMar. However, in response to a question from Mr Pechtold, I have already said that I will take a very specific look at the signal that has reached him and not at the possibility of getting caught up at Schiphol this summer. In fact, that also affects Mr Van der Staaij's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u183	Is the Prime Minister prepared to look more broadly than just the situation at Schiphol? This is the overall package, not only the work that we have been talking about as a result of the threat of terrorism, but also the work that has been done as a result of the refugee crisis. For example, the activities at the borders have to do with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u184	I have already said that, of course, at certain times, the KMar has been cut short because of the additional commitment in the context of the high asylum influx. That is simply real and that commitment was, of course, not foreseen last year when the extra money was allocated. At that time, nearly 130 million additional funds were allocated for intensifications in the safety chain. However, I am going to do that double check; that seems to me to be correct. Based on my information and my conversations with the KMar, the answer should be "yes," but I want to be sure. I think that is also correct in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u185	The Prime Minister is running through all the issues, but I would like to come back to the capacity and, unfortunately, also to the police. It's about the whole thing. An investigation has shown that 300 million euros are needed for the police to stay at least on strength. The prime minister says the military can handle it. However, I hear reports which show that the Marechaussee is already completely out of all arrangements for overtime and such matters and that there is therefore no room for the rest of the year. So that shows that they can't handle it there. More importantly, however, I think that the Finance Minister said on Tuesday last week: if there is a shortage of money, it has to be added, because it is so important. Does the Prime Minister agree and, if so, can the Chamber receive proposals from the Spring Paper to strengthen the police, the military and possibly other security services, organisations which, in the situation referred to by the Minister as a war situation, are unable to handle the work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u186	I have just promised Mr Pechtold that I will come back specifically to this point in relation to the KMar. Furthermore, I have just said that the Minister for Security and Justice will deal extensively with the police. The Chamber is aware that this was also debated last year. The CDA, coalition parties, D66, the Christian Union, the SGP and also other parties have made a strong effort to bring in money. Then it was said: we will look again at the situation in the police. This has led to a number of investigations. The first results of this have been leaked, as is the case in our open country. The cabinet is currently trying to form an image of this. I cannot anticipate this, because it is really a matter that needs to be discussed in the Cabinet. That's part of a decent decision-making process. So I can't promise here that extra money is going there now. If I did, I would have nineteen colleagues on the line asking: oh, do I get extra money? We really need to make that assessment in the Cabinet, and that should also be done there. I think that's correct. But I would like to say again that the Minister for Security and Justice will deal with this later. A question has also been asked about the European situation. I can say that I am very pragmatic in this. If I thought that a European CIA would be the solution, I would propose that this be done regardless of discussion on sovereignty and such matters. However, I do not think that a European CIA, as some suggest, is helping. That is why I do not come forward with a proposal for such a European service. However, I believe that we should always look at ideas on this issue, regardless of ideology. This must be practical, because it is about the safety of the Netherlands and of all of us. On the other hand, I believe in maximum cooperation. As far as our security service is concerned, that certainly affects the AIVD, but to some extent also the STIVD. The AIVD works very closely with other services in the Counter Terrorism Group in a multilateral context. This cooperation affects the whole EU plus Norway and Switzerland. The AIVD is currently president of that CTG. A major step has now been taken in this multilateral cooperation. There is not only information there, but an operational platform has been set up under our Presidency. That is where the information is not only exchanged, but also discussed. They say: 'Hey, that's information from that service, how do we look at each other?' The validation and weighing of that information may be as important as the sharing of information. This does not apply to the principle of quid pro quo, which is often the subject of interservice cooperation, as many Members of Parliament know. Certainly the members of the Committee on Intelligence and Security know that there is often work on the basis of the principle: for what, hears what. That doesn't apply here. This does not necessarily require the return of any other services, but rather bring services into what they have to offer. Shared security is paramount. Following the attacks in Brussels, the CTG also met immediately to share information. This was also done on Dutch initiative. That's what I've said before. The Minister for Security and Justice will look at a number of aspects of European cooperation where improvement can be achieved. I also think that this can be done, including when it comes to the Passenger Name Records. In particular, on the cooperation of the security services, I believe, firstly, that there is no added value of a large European security service, which is a view based on my insights, and, secondly, that very great steps are being taken at the moment to ensure that this cooperation is carried out not only on the basis of information exchange but also on the basis of validating that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u187	The Prime Minister attaches great importance to the exchange of information. That's right. I think we all share that. The European Parliament is about to vote on this PNR system. Now the Member States, so the Council of Ministers, have agreed to do so. Now that the Prime Minister himself has put the emphasis on it, I would like to know what the Netherlands has voted and why there has not been enough conviction in the end to get the rest of the Member States to exchange it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u188	That question will be answered by Minister Van der Steur in a moment. I have now confined myself to the cooperation of the security services. I just said that the PNR issue is in the stack of Ard van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u189	Van der Staaij also said: if the Prime Minister mentions all matters, then I would also like to know what his role has been in this. We share the importance of exchanging data here. Many group chairmen have said that today. There's a system that requires us to exchange passenger data. That's kind of important. That is what the ministers have agreed. But because it is not known which country voted what, I hope the Netherlands voted for it. I hope the Prime Minister can confirm that. Then why didn't it go on? Did the Belgians stop that? Did the French stop that? I would like to know that in the light of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u190	Again, I do not have the information on that right here. However, I have been involved from the Presidency itself in untiring the discussion between the Council and Parliament. I have spoken to the President of the European Parliament on the phone a few times myself, because at some point there were buttons in both areas, both in the Council and in Parliament, which had to be removed. At least that has led to an acceleration. As a result, it is now expected that 1 July will also be adopted by Parliament and that it will be fully operational. I say to my mind that it must be complete on 1 July, but Van der Steur will be able to confirm that shortly. But it is absolutely true that there have been a number of delays. Mr Pechtold is right about that. I remember from those contacts that there were, among other things, problems with the translation of legal texts. In addition, Parliament said that we want to see them all first. I said: no, but we will ensure that this translation does not lead to a substantive adaptation of those texts. Because Parliament finally decided to want to see all the texts at first, that was a delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u191	I understand the PM's pragmatic approach. I think that's good, too. We must now ensure better cooperation quickly, but I am still critical of it. I hope the Prime Minister understands that, given everything that has emerged in the last few days. I am concerned that four countries are responsible for 80% of filling in the Europol list, on which people are to be alerted. I think there's still a lot to be done there. I wonder what the Prime Minister will do about it. He's talking about how cooperation is getting better and better. Then how does he judge tonight's coverage that the FBI would have given information to the Netherlands, while at the same time there is a press release from the Belgians that the Netherlands did not share it again? How does he assess this information in the light of his argument that there is actually good cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u192	I think that went well. Mr Van der Steur will deal with this in such detail. The FBI has some of that information from the Belgians. That is why that did not have to be shared with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u193	The Prime Minister says it was quite casual: it came from the Belgians. But I do not understand it anymore and with me a number of colleagues. We read in the answer given by the Minister to question 18, if I am correct, that we received information from the FBI and that the 17th was shared with the Belgians. Next, there will be a press release from the Belgian government stating that nothing has been shared with her at all. I would like a little more words from the Prime Minister than I could hear this evening through the NOS Journal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u194	I'd certainly like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u195	I'd like the Prime Minister to elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u196	But I'm not gonna do that. That's Van der Steur's. I would like to say a few words about this, but the comprehensive answer is given to Mr Klaver by the Minister for Security and Justice. What I know is that the FBI will report to us on March 16th what he knows about the Belgians. That is why we did not share this with the Belgians either. That's about these two people. The next day or two days later, March 15th, March 17th, there is a regular consultation in Belgium, where we talk about all sorts of things and these two figures are cut again. But the Belgians apparently shared this information with the FBI themselves, because the FBI tells us that the Belgians have put these people on the wanted list. So that's all true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u197	On which wantedlist, the list that was announced on 25 September 2015? It will be very difficult to hold a debate if Parliament is given a piece of information. I understand that the Prime Minister is going to say quite jovially: yes, but I am not the Minister of all matters. No, but he is not the minister of side business either, and this is a key issue in the debate. I would like a little more information on this. He says that the US has indicated that the Belgians have had that request. When did they receive this request from Belgium?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u198	Asking me these kinds of questions is not real. Mr Van der Steur thus answers the question of the FBI. He's got all the information in his pile. That's how we do it. I can fully reassure Mr Klaver: I am aware of what he is going to say there. But I don't have all the information in front of me right now. But this is true. There are no crazy things in this. That will also be apparent in a moment if Mr Van der Steur has told us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u199	Then I'll wait for the Minister of Security and Justice, but I don't know what we can ask the Prime Minister tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u200	You'll be there yourself. You can always ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u201	Apart from the casusism, from this one traveler who has come back and committed an attack, the picture is extremely worrying. I agree with the Prime Minister that we should not build up European infrastructure while we are in the middle of the war against jihadism. At the same time, there are more than 5,000 travellers from Europe, of whom only 2,800 are registered. Indeed, five countries account for 90% of the registration. Where are the other countries? Where are those 2,200 plus outbounds who aren't registered? I am helping the Prime Minister to hope that we do not need this European infrastructure. At the same time, the picture is extremely worrying. We have seen misery from one person who has slipped through the loopholes of the security services and more than 2,200 have not been registered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u202	Of course, I fully agree with Mr Segers that what happened last week is terrible and that it is very serious if someone is able to commit an attack and is not caught in time. I am not going to say that this is a failure of the system. It is never 100% to guarantee that you will never be affected by an attack, because it is never 100% to guarantee that everyone is in the picture, no matter how well the services work. That is a general response to what Mr Segers says. More specifically, I agree with him that there are still too many discrepancies in numbers. Who did they register? Who's not registered? That is also one of the reasons why we have stated in the answer to the parliamentary questions that we are talking with Turkey, among other things, to improve a number of things, to ensure that reports are always provided with context, for example, that notifications are always made immediately, not only in writing via some sort of mailbox. That is because we cannot get someone back in the Netherlands of another nationality without knowing the context. That is already an example of things that need to be improved. So I agree with Mr Segers that there are many areas where cooperation needs to be strengthened and improved. My comment towards Mr Klaver was quite specific about the cooperation between the intelligence and security services, because I believe that this is an area where much progress is being made. This does not apply to the whole of Europe. There are many points that require much more improvement, but on the basis of all the information I have, my view is that the intelligence services are working well together and that important steps are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u203	The Prime Minister can't keep this up. The European Counter-Terrorism Coordinator shows that there are more than 5,000 extravagants. So I am not talking about cooperation with Turkey; that is a completely different story. I am talking about European extravagants; there are over 5,000 Syrians, of whom only 2,800 are registered. That's dramatic. We've now had a hit on one person and we're trying to figure out how it slipped through the security services' loopholes. Now it's more than 2,200 people who aren't registered. The cooperation is not going well. A dramatic picture is being sketched.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u204	One of the things the European Counter-Terrorism Coordinator reports is that many countries have different standards. Not every country, as is evident in this case, carries out exactly the same actions in all cases, for example in the international detection of people. This is also an area where we simply need to improve. I fully agree with Mr Segers. My answer was rather specific to Mr Klaver's question as to what the added value of a European security service would be. That does not change the analysis that Mr Segers makes and which I share with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u205	Finally, we can only say that there is no need for a European institute: once again, I agree with the Prime Minister when we show that cooperation is improving. As long as there are 2,200 unregistered extravagants, this cooperation goes dramatically. So we will have to take steps very quickly, in a very short time. My question to the cabinet is what steps are being taken. We have the EU Presidency, we are in the lead, so we can take steps. What steps are being taken to regain that lost ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u206	One of those things happened last week. Ronald Plasterk was present, because last week was supposed to be the debate where Ard van der Steur, the Minister for Security and Justice, was expected, and so the Minister for the Interior went to Brussels to chair the Council which took place following the terrible attacks in Brussels. That was the Council of Ministers for the Interior and Justice. That is exactly what this issue has been discussed about, among other things, the question of how we ensure that we standardise much more who you may or may not list. It has been said that it cannot indeed be that we register everyone and that other countries say that they have very different criteria to do or not to do so. These things really need to be standardised at European level. Once again, I agree with Mr Segers on all these points. He's absolutely right about that. The point I made about the cooperation of the security services also refers to that point. Besides all the things we need to improve, something's going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u207	I, too, have been disturbed by the light-hearted way in which the Prime Minister tells me that cooperation would go well. Apart from the 2,200 people, the Chamber has been talking about improving cooperation between the services for one, two, three years. Let's just look at what happened. There was an attack in Paris last November. The network was not only in Paris; that went to Belgium and now appears to be going to the Netherlands. Six months later, measures are being taken here again. Of course, I am glad that they are being taken, but it seems that it takes so long for this cooperation to be optimal and for immediate action to be taken. There are many examples. Someone is being expelled from Turkey and we have no idea what kind of person that is and who should be talking to who. One accuses them, the other accuses them. How can the Prime Minister insist that cooperation is going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u208	Yes, but then Mr Roemer will have to do me justice, because I agree with what he said. Then his question will be: how can you agree with my speech when you first say that cooperation is going well? I didn't say that either. I spoke very specifically about this in connection with Mr Klaver's question on cooperation between the security services. However, I have already said the following to Mr Segers in relation to the broader consideration and questions such as 'how are things going in Europe?', "do we have the same standards?" and "do we have the same agreements?" Take Turkey, which is an important country, a NATO partner, in the fight against terrorism. It is very active in this; let us also note that. It does a lot, but it can also be improved, which we also mention in the question set that has been answered today. We are going to take them up in terms of cooperation with Turkey. That is only one example which shows that Mr Roemer is right. I did not say that everything was going great, but I specifically addressed Mr Klaver's question as to whether there should be a European security service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u209	It is very kind of the Prime Minister to agree, but we are not buying very much for that. I am already having this debate with the Prime Minister for the third or fourth time. After the last time in November, but also earlier when we talked about the cuts in the AIVD, we constantly talked about the failure of cooperation in the European context between the various services. Each time we got this story and it was said: no, you are right and the Chamber is right and we are going to take steps now. What steps have been taken effectively over the past two years? We still have to find out that it's below par.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u210	There's a lot going on. We, as chairman, do a lot of things too. Minister Van der Steur will deal with this in detail in his term. I would almost say: now I agree with Mr Roemer and now it is not good. I hope this will cheer him up a little bit. I agree with his analysis that it is still insufficient and that more needs to be done, but it is certainly not the case that the Netherlands is lax in this; I can really say that to Mr Roemer. We're up here. We are one of the founding fathers of the Union. Counter-terrorism is our absolute top priority. It is not always unwilling, but, for example, standardising agreements, carrying out the same actions in the same cases, is a matter that is still too slow. I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u211	Normally I would say that this is a reasonable story: things go wrong and we work hard to see how things can be done better. I only have the feeling that there is some repetition in it, especially when I hear the German Minister of the Interior say after the last summit: once the cameras swing away, that deep-seated distrust comes back. According to a report in the Volkskrant, the German Interior Minister De Maizière said so after the summit. It says in the same story that a European Commissioner for Migration and Counter-Terrorism sends out to the ministers by saying: every time after an attack, they say that they are working hard to improve it, but it is not going to happen. This raises the question: is the picture they are sketching and, if so, how can we, as representatives of the people, be confident that it will be realised this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u212	Again, we agree that much remains to be done. Hopefully we also agree that the Netherlands is at the forefront of this. The Netherlands is very much attracted to this. There are also meters made. I don't know the specific Volkskrant message, so I can't respond to what's in there or on that road swirling camera. I know Mr Van der Staaij as someone who is telling the truth, so I assume this is described as such, but I cannot put it further. Especially after the previous debates, I can say that it is also an absolute spearhead in the context of the Presidency. The summit which took place last week under the leadership of the Dutch Minister for the Interior was also an example of the fact that we are working on making a great deal of progress in all these areas. At the same time, we must note that it is not yet ready and that we need to be even faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u213	Perhaps the Minister for Security and Justice will be able to respond to that message in the near future, because that creates mistrust, including among the citizens who read and hear it. They get the picture "this indeed belongs to the rituals after an attack and then they go to the order of the day." That is, of course, different from the fact that there is indeed to be seen and heard that steps are being taken, which I recognize. However, this picture sheds a very different light on the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u214	While Mr Van der Staaij asked this question, which I, of course, listened to at the same time, we exchanged here for a moment that we, the Netherlands, are at least not in the game; let that be very clear. I don't recognize it from our German colleagues either. I understand that the article in the Volkskrant is well known by Mr Van der Steur; he has read it, but he does not recognize it. We will certainly include that and margin with the German colleague. Mr. Chairman. May I give you polite consideration... no, I see Mr. Wilders at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u215	Because I know the limitations of the intelligence services, I ask the Prime Minister what they can do if, as happened in Molenbeek, which is not far from the Dutch border, a terrorist, the most wanted terrorist in Europe at that time, Mr Salah Abdeslam, is protected by the Muslim community. He's been put in hiding for three months. People have been allowed to walk down the street, to talk to people, to walk by the police station and to go from address to address. Isn't that the problem? Even if we knew how to improve cooperation, even if we would give billions more, if the Muslim community supports terrorists and doesn't report it for three months, that would be at the heart of the problem, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u216	It is, of course, serious that it is not reported to the police when someone is recognized and it is known to other people that it is a serious terrorist. I fully agree with Mr Wilders. That is a serious matter. However, I object to the conclusions he draws by saying that 1 million Muslims in the Netherlands have done so now. That has actually been his argument in the first term. I really must throw that far from me. I don't care what faith anyone has or what belief anyone has. I'll see if anyone makes a positive contribution to society and abides by the law. If he doesn't, we'll turn on that person. That's how I look at our society. Faith really is a personal matter for someone. It would be much more useful to talk to each other about how it is possible that it is not reported than that it is now generalised by Mr Wilders to "all the Muslims in this world who have been protecting this terrible gentleman."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u217	I did not say that, by the way, so it would be a good thing for you if you wanted to sum it up nicely. I said that the reason these people, an entire community, an entire neighborhood, that top terrorist didn't report for three months is that they tolerated him. He was a hero, they supported him. The Muslim community, including in the Netherlands, believes that, for example, Syrians are heroes. As long as your cabinet does not make the analysis that Islam is the cause of all misery and you do not do what you have to do, namely close the borders, de-islamize the Netherlands and ensure that this kind of terror does not happen anymore, you do not belong at the place where you are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u218	Last week, I taught two hours in classes with only migrant children. Most of them have Muslim backgrounds. They were as impressed and as upset by the events in Brussels two days before that as we were all here. There have also been examples last week of situations where there would have been applause. I've seen that, too. That is serious and it is followed up. However, this is not my image. These situations are serious and need to be addressed. However, my personal experience in the classes I taught in last week is exactly the opposite. Those children were at least as impressed by what had happened in Brussels as we all were. That's exactly my objection. In the interpretation and application of Islam, things undoubtedly go wrong. There are absolutely people who use Islam to approve violence and pursue their political goals. Then the State turns against those people with all its power. That's what we do. That's why we have our security services and police. There's no way anyone's gonna take advantage of the faith for that. But what is totally out of order and what is not in line with reality is what Mr Wilders is doing here over and over again, namely generalising to everyone who has that faith. That's just one identity of these people. They have so many other identities, so many other talents and so many other aspects. This doesn't lead to anything. I'm here as Prime Minister to solve problems, to keep the country safe. This is a theory that is only going to end up in its opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u219	We're about to talk to the Minister of Security and Justice about the answers to the 166 questions. After all, the Netherlands has become involved in a somewhat special way in the case of El Bakraoui. The Prime Minister announced quite a few new things about this also in the answers we say should be better; those are the lessons we draw from it. Does the Prime Minister say in so many words that things could have been better from a Dutch perspective if we were to look at this case in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u220	My belief is that if you look at the whole dossier, the Netherlands in itself is not to blame in this matter. At the same time, you have to note that on a few points, things really need to be better. One of the points, one of the most important points, is also explicitly mentioned in the set of questions: our communication with Turkey. It is really important that we clarify it and that we know exactly where we are, especially because Turkey is such an important country in this case, because many travellers go through Turkey. I'm not standing here saying everything went brilliant. No, of course things didn't go well either. On the basis of the complex of facts as I know it, I do not have the impression that our services are to blame. However, I note that on a number of points we really need to tighten things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u221	In any case, I am pleased that the Prime Minister says that not everything went well in the Netherlands either. It bothered me that the Minister for Security and Justice said last week: nothing shows that we could have done things better in the Netherlands. That was his literal text: nothing shows that we could have done things better in the Netherlands. This is what you say in international relations: so the mistake lies with the Turks and the Belgians. I now hear clearly that the Prime Minister says that the mistake lies not only with the Turks and the Belgians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u222	It's always that zero-sum game, and I get it: it's wrong or right, and if one is wrong, then the other is good. I think it's really more nuanced. Van der Steur sent a letter to the Chamber last week and answered the questions of the Chamber and that was nuanced. I do not have every sentence he said to the media last week, but I also have a picture of the same nuance as I have shown here. I believe that our Dutch services are not to blame, but if you look at the whole dossier, it is clear, as it says in the set of answers to parliamentary questions sent today, that we really need to tighten things up on a number of points, especially in contact with others. That is not a reproach towards Turkey, Belgium or ourselves, but you must always learn lessons from such a case. You always do that together. It's not a zero-sum game: we're wrong, they're right, or vice versa.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u223	No, but with that game, that game that the Prime Minister said you should not play, and rightly so, the Dutch cabinet did, by saying two days after the attack, in the words of Minister Van der Steur: nothing shows that mistakes have been made here, nothing shows that we could have done anything better. Then you say as a Dutch cabinet: then the Turks and the Belgians are wrong. That's why there's this chop-chop with the Turks and the Belgians. I agree with the Prime Minister that lessons should always be learned, but I found that view so unwise. People feel that: now three countries are fighting each other, but who was right and who was wrong? Then I would rather say that in the Netherlands too things could have been better than the statement by Minister Van der Steur that nothing shows that it should have been better in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u224	I don't have every sense of Minister Van der Steur in mind. I've seen the general impact. My picture of that was not that he pointed his finger at others and said: here we have done everything brilliantly and there have been great mistakes made. That is not clear from the letter sent that evening or from the answers to the questions. However, he will be able to explain that further himself later. I do not have the impression that that is a justified reproach. I'm not saying that mistakes have been made. I think our services just did what they had to do. It should then be noted that in communication with other services, things really need to be improved. If you find that, then it's always a mutual process, then you can't just blame the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u225	This is just too easy for me. We have had a painful insight into the cooperation between the security services in Europe, but there is also a more than painful involvement of the Dutch security services. We'll talk to the minister later about questions like: had the Turks sent that message in time, how was that encrypted, did we call the Belgians themselves and did the FBI call us? However, I find it too easy to say: yes, lessons are always drawn. The fact is, however, that a terrorist who had committed an attack landed at Schiphol Airport. We don't even know how long he's been here. Maybe he was here until last week. I still can't hear what happened to that man. And the other guy went to Germany. Of the 5,000 extravagants, half of them are completely untraceable and unknown. I'd like some peace in the debate. I also want peace in society, don't panic. But this doesn't really create a lot of confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u226	I have already spoken with Mr Segers on this second issue. Mr Van der Steur will deal with this first one in detail in the near future. Let Mr Pechtold listen to his speech. Perhaps I should come back afterwards to see whether Mr Pechtold does indeed have a point or not. My view is as follows. I cannot draw the conclusion from the whole factual complex of what happened on 14 July and 15 July last year and from what happened on 16 March and 17 March this year that mistakes have been made on the Dutch side. I can conclude, however, that there were uncertainties about protocols and what to expect from each other. So there is no finger pointing at Turkey and therefore four fingers at myself. It's something you have to pick up together in order to improve it. That is exactly what Minister Van der Steur said today to the set of parliamentary questions. But it's still complicated. If someone is on a plane, when you don't know it, and that person holds up a Belgian passport at the KMar and can walk in with it, it is terribly complicated to light that person out. I can't do that, of course. I do not think that is something we could blame our KMar or anyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u227	It is strange that once again, once again, after an attack, we are faced with the conclusion that it should have been better. The first attacks in Europe were in mid-2000: in Madrid and London, then in Paris and now again in Brussels. So we cannot say that it has happened suddenly. The answer to the questions shows that in 2015 alone, Turkey put someone with a terrorist background on the plane 33 times to the Netherlands and that five people went through the Netherlands. That's not extremely much, so that's to follow. Then somewhere, including the Dutch, there has to be a light that it is useful to make agreements with Turkey about this? The questions show that, on the basis of experience, it was assumed that things were going well. They didn't go any further than that. The Prime Minister says we haven't been lax, but this is more than "dropping a sting"? If you get a terrorist to your country 33 times, isn't the basis that you make agreements on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u228	This is one of the things I was just talking about with Mr Pechtold. On the basis of this case, you need to establish that you need to protocol it tighter. To some extent I agree with Mr Van Haersma Buma. So far we have always been directly informed from liaison officer to liaison officer, a few times it was also confirmed in writing so that we could follow up. So that always went well. In this case, it is someone who is not of Dutch nationality and who is also suspected of terror. The Turks turned out to have different views about what they could and couldn't share. Minister Van der Steur has indicated in his reply to the set of parliamentary questions that this is a reason for us to go further. I am not saying that Mr Van Haersma Buma is wrong, because, of course, you have to establish that it needs to be more closely monitored. But at the same time, if things always go well in all these cases and everyone else does what they have to do, you can't see that things didn't go well in those previous cases. However, Mr Van Haersma Buma has a point and that is precisely why we say in reply to the set of parliamentary questions that we are going to have the conversation with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u229	This seems to be the problem: the previous times it went well, so we don't have to record it. Until a bomb goes off. Everyone knows that if you want to work together in these kind of clubs before the bomb goes down, you'll have to make arrangements before the bomb goes down. The whole story that we have not been lax and that there is nothing to blame is extremely stupid. It's a blasphemy, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u230	I think that's a far too difficult conclusion. I feel more at home with the conclusions that Mr Pechtold and I have just drawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u231	I would like to continue with the Prime Minister for a very short time. It was said that someone had been put on a plane to the Netherlands, but because it was a non-Dutch citizen, the information could not be shared. This was noted on 23 March. In the answer to the same set of questions it says that in an earlier case five people have already been expelled or flown back to the Netherlands, whatever you want to call it, who were not Dutch. Then I can only conclude that in those five cases the question was not asked: why do you put this person who is not a Dutchman back on the plane to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u232	It's really more nuanced. That question really needs to be put to Minister Van der Steur, because he has answered it in his pile. I do not have that answer exactly ready, but what Mr Roemer is saying is really more nuanced. So I suggest he discuss this with Minister Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u233	Mr Roemer, I don't know what your next question is, but I suggest we see if the Minister of Security and Justice will be able to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u234	That would be my request, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u235	... can give some answers. Then you can still interrupt if your question is not answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u236	Then I have another point, because I will save the first point with some reluctance. We also have a second term with the Prime Minister, so I can always come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u237	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u238	The Prime Minister did not want to go much further today than giving an overall introduction. He didn't want to dive into the detail. If he wanted to give an overall introduction on such a heavy and violent subject as radicalising young people, I would at least expect this Prime Minister of all the Dutch to talk about the breeding ground in our own neighbourhoods. Not only are we calling for attention to be paid to this; several parties have done so here today. All you have to do is listen to radio, watch TV or open a newspaper, or you'll find that the experts, luckily, are bringing it up. We must do much more to combat the breeding ground for radicalisation, including in the Netherlands. We must not become the French banlieues or the Belgian Molenbeeks. Why didn't the Prime Minister bring this up at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u239	In previous debates, we have had a very profound impact on this debate. We then discussed, among other things, the importance of what is happening in the neighbourhoods. The role of the district agent was also discussed in detail at the time. Last week I had the pleasure of opening the elderly's soos of Hennie and Hans in The Hague, where the district agent was also present. That was in a neighborhood near the Zuiderparklaan in The Hague. I then talked to the district agent about the work he's doing in that neighborhood with 140 different nationalities. That is exactly what we are always discussing here at the theoretical level. I talk to the police more often and I hear the stories of other district agents. Here I heard from the district agent himself that it is important that the district agent, that official, is present in the capillaries of society. That is something we do well in the Netherlands, but it is no guarantee that no attack will be made here. We have talked about this before. I have chosen not to repeat this in my introductory statement, but if Mr Roemer does not like it, I am absolutely prepared to go forward with him now in the context of question and answer. I very much agree with him that it is very important to have deradicalisation in the neighbourhoods and to avoid a breeding ground. The role of local government is also very important. We have discussed this very extensively on a number of occasions. Today, I thought I would focus my introduction on what happened in Brussels and on the direct effects it has on European cooperation. Once again, however, I am prepared to answer all of Mr Roemer's questions on that point further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u240	This is an incomprehensible and, in fact, misplaced way of thinking. The number of neighborhood agents is flying back. The new police officer is calling the alarm. Half the police stations are closed or closed. Child Services gets cut off half of it. Young people in these neighbourhoods can't find a job or an internship. Integration has been failing for years in a row. We try to fight segregation over and over again. A whole population is about to be thrown away here, and the Prime Minister is not talking about it. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u241	I refer to the previous answer. I would like to have that debate with Mr Roemer. It is a relevant debate. He's now claiming some of the things I'm passionately disagree with, but that's okay, you have a debate for that. Today it was primarily about the terrible events in Brussels, in particular about last week's coverage of the fact that one of the attackers had travelled through Schiphol. This raises questions about the cooperation between services and organisations. In my introduction, I focused on this. Once again, I am prepared to hold a detailed debate with Mr Roemer on this issue. As I do not think this was the main topic today, I did not mention it in my introductory remarks. Mr Roemer is very sad about that, I can see that. He thinks that's incomprehensible. I am going to correct that by entering into the discussion with him now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u242	The Prime Minister should not do that for me, but for the people in the neighbourhood, for the young people who cannot find a job, who no longer recognize themselves in the neighborhood. We were talking earlier about freedom and equal opportunities. They're not there for everyone anymore. There have been attacks in Paris and Brussels, but this was largely by young people born and raised in those neighbourhoods and who have been radicalised there. In certain districts of Paris, the police are afraid to come anymore. We shouldn't want to go that way. We must prevent this from happening on all sides. That must be the first task of the cabinet. That must be one of the first things when the President of the Cabinet comes to have a general chat: how do we prevent young people from getting out of sight, that we do not see school leavers anymore? If that is no longer the main issue we are discussing, but only repression, repression and repression, then I am, to put it mildly, very disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u243	I fully agree with Mr Roemer that removing the root causes of radicalisation is incredibly important. Fortunately, I do not hear him say that there is a certain identification of events in those root causes. I know that we fully agree that what happened in Brussels, regardless of the context, is never good to talk about. We are in complete agreement on this. I know the situation in The Hague quite well because of my volunteering at schools in the Laakkwartier, in the Schilderswijk and here in the center. I see exactly what is happening in that neighborhood and how important the role of the school and the district agent is. We are in complete agreement on this. I will not claim that Mr Roemer says this, but I say this more in relation to what he says. A risk for which we must be careful is that we are sometimes a little satisfied with the approach in the Netherlands and say that it cannot happen to us. I repeat that the entire Chamber and the Cabinet are doing everything in their power to prevent attacks, including by removing the root causes of radicalisation, but let us not think that it cannot take place in the Netherlands because we have everything well done here. Let's not beat our chests too much. I also hear Mr Roemer say that he supports this approach, but has concerns about the effects of certain measures. You should debate it more closely if he's right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u244	I would like to return to cooperation in Europe and to the question of how we could be better protected. The fact that El Bakraoui came through Schiphol was not a coincidence. If he had travelled through Belgium, he would probably have been arrested, because he still had a sentence to serve. He chooses to be deported through the Netherlands, because he would not be identified. That worries me. As long as the services in Europe are not working together enough so that we are able to fish out such a man, would it not be appropriate for us to agree with Turkey that people who are being expelled can only be expelled to the country where they are resident? Apparently, that's the only way to get them through all the databases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u245	That is what we have found out: it cannot be done in the Schengen system. However, we can say to Turkey: if you expel someone who is not a Dutch citizen and we do not get a context, we will not accept him. We can also say: we want you to inform us, not only in an electronic portal, but immediately if someone threatens to be evicted, so that we can take action. We are also going to work, as stated in the reply that Van der Steur sent to the Chamber today, to ensure that the agreements are made tight in a European context too. Someone can be sent to another country under the Schengen rules, but if in this case Turkey is not willing to give context, then we can agree not to accept someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u246	We just had a discussion on Schengen. The rules are slightly wider than we think. If our society is at risk, you can certainly deal with the Schengen rules differently. It seems that we in Europe are not in a good position to work well together. I would like it not to matter whether a criminal is expelled to Madrid, Brussels or Amsterdam. But if people are being evicted from Turkey, then there must be room to see if these people can only be deported to the country where they are resident? Apparently, that's the only way to get them through all the databases. I find it rather cynical to think that if El Bakraoui had been put on a plane to Brussels, he would have run into the light and served his sentence there. I found this answer and the answer given by the Minister of Justice very brief and would like a better explanation of why Schengen would not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u247	The Minister of Justice will discuss this further. We've been looking into it. In fact, Mr Klaver wants to take a step further than the cabinet. We want to make agreements within the Schengen rules and we want to know when someone comes and what his background is, and we believe that in this case Turkey should do so throughout Europe. Mr Klaver is going one step further. Our interpretation is that this cannot be done within Schengen, but perhaps the Minister for Security and Justice can comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u248	Perhaps a little while longer, because otherwise it will be the debate of the Minister for Security and Justice...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u249	Well, I've been standing here for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u250	Would the Prime Minister consider it desirable that we should only ensure that these people can be deported to the country where they are resident?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u251	I've learned in this business that you have to do it one step at a time. If you want to regulate very great ideals in a European context, such as adapting regulations, it usually falls because of its own weight. So let us first take step one in accordance with the commitments that the Minister of Security and Justice wants to make with Turkey and also with Europe, and then consider in the meantime whether what Mr Klaver wants could be done. As long as you're not sure if anything's possible, doing it step by step seems like a good advice to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u252	My question was what the Prime Minister wants. He talks about views and ideals, but it was a very concrete, very small proposal. I can't make it much smaller than this. How does the Prime Minister look at this, except that he says: it must be feasible. Yeah, I get that, but what does he think? Does he think it's desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u253	I am in favour of practical solutions. I can't really see it right now, but I'm afraid Van der Steur might be able to say a little bit more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u254	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u255	Mr Klaver may say no, but that is what he is doing. That's not necessarily wrong, there may be a lot to say, but let's take it one step at a time. First, let us make it practical and pragmatic that it cannot be that we do not know that there is someone on the plane who is suspected of extremely wrong intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u256	Many questions will be answered by the Minister of Security and Justice. I would therefore suggest that he be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u257	I have another question. We have talked about the capacity of the police and more people and resources for the AIVD and other intelligence services. I argued in favour of this in my first term, and that was also discussed. One shift hasn't been discussed, DOD. Let us not hope so, but if at the same time there is an attack in Rotterdam and Amsterdam, for example, then I can guarantee to the Prime Minister that Defence will be given a very large role. Then contingency plans come into effect and you get scenarios that you don't want to know: areas need to be closed down, just like the borders, because then no one can leave the country because terrorists can escape the country. Should that scenario occur, does the Prime Minister have any idea how many military personnel we have operationally available at the moment in order to achieve such a scenario?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u258	I do not have the figures ready here, because I did not see this question coming. However, I can say about the defence that we are here on the compass of the Van der Staaij motion. We have been doing this for a number of years, and we will continue to do so. So if there's financial space, we're looking at the DOD again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u259	I'll help the Prime Minister. We have 8,000 military, men and women in place for such scenarios to be operationally deployed. 8,000, of course, that's far too little for this country. I ask the Prime Minister if he can respond to NATO's criticism. The fight against IS takes place not only in Syria but also in the cities of Western Europe. What does the Prime Minister think of NATO's criticism that the Netherlands invests far too little in Defence when it comes to fighting IS?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u260	I do not quite understand how the number of 8,000 from the beginning of Mr Bontes' second intervention should be compared to the whole. I get the second half. I have, of course, also seen the criticism of NATO. This also affects the contribution that countries make to their defence organisation from their national income. Mr Bontes also knows that considerable additional resources have been added to the defence budget in recent years. I also know that there is a great deal of interest in increasing it further. However, this will always have to be seen against the backdrop of the financial area that exists. I have already said that, as so often, we sail on Mr Van der Staaij's compass.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u261	I'll give you a little explanation of the 8,000 military deployments. That's not much. That is very little for a country like the Netherlands. Let me give you an example. The Rotterdam-Rijnmond police force employs around 5,000 people in the Rotterdam area. If you sell that against 8,000 soldiers for the whole of the Netherlands, the Netherlands is really far below the mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u262	I don't quite understand the ratio of military-number of policemen. I think there is, in itself, an excellent debate on additional investments in the defence budget. I think we've talked about that before in the Chamber. Steps have been taken, and perhaps further steps will be taken in the future if there is financial space for it, but I honestly do not fully understand the police defense ratio, that 8,000 versus 5,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u263	5,000 for a small area and 8,000 for a whole country, which is of course bad in proportion if you really need to guarantee safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u264	You can't turn those numbers against each other like that. That's a crazy equation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u265	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u266	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their questions and comments. Let me put this first. If such a horrible attack takes place, I wonder, as the Prime Minister said, with all those thousands of people working day by day for our security: are we doing everything we can to make the Netherlands safer? In addition, we always ask ourselves whether we can do things even better. If things don't go the way we wanted them to, then we wonder what we should do to do better. I will get to that in a moment in my speech. I have six topics I'd like to discuss with the Chamber. Firstly, in addition to what the Prime Minister has just said, I will deal with the actions we have taken within the framework of our Presidency. This is particularly true of the provision of information to the security services. Secondly, I will discuss the events on the sixteenth and seventeenth March and the exchange between the Dutch and Belgian police. Thirdly, I will deal with expulsions, fourthly with investment and the neighbourhood approach, fifthly with policies, legislation and border closures, and sixthly with European cooperation in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u267	Mr Pechtold, the Minister has been working for 54 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u268	But he's said a lot of things in there. I ask the Minister of Security and Justice to reflect on his statement last week, namely that there is no evidence that the Netherlands could have done more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u269	I don't know if I made that statement so literally, but what really mattered last week was the question: did we do what we had to do on 15 July 2015 when we were informed by the Belgian authorities about the fact that a person had travelled to the Netherlands the day before? The answer to that question was that at that time we did everything we could and should have done to find out what was or was not going on with this gentleman. That is the answer I gave to that question, and that was the question that was topical last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u270	Since the Minister was unable to answer any questions at that time, we postponed the debate. 166 questions were then put by the Chamber and the answers to them showed that the cabinet itself indicated that it wanted to do more. As far as I am concerned, due to the Minister's statement that nothing shows that the Netherlands could have done more, there has been an unpleasant move from the Netherlands to Belgium, from Belgium to Turkey and vice versa. If the Minister himself now announces that he wants to go further on six points, I would like to ask him again whether his statement last week was not premature and unwise. Was it in the light of what was then so convenient to say that the Netherlands could not have done anything better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u271	It was a response to the question that I was asked whether the Netherlands could have done more or anything else on 15 July when it became clear to us through the Belgian authorities that there had been an expulsion. I have given the answer I have given, and that is still the answer. At that time, we did everything we could to determine whether there was a problem with this gentleman. The man wasn't in anything, in any system. That is why we have not taken any further steps. As far as the follow-up questions are concerned, we have said on a number of points that we find that there are issues that need to be improved, including the research that we have done in recent days. I also mentioned these points in the letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u272	I am sorry that the Minister, where that led to all sorts of reactions from Belgium and Turkey, did not indicate what he might have known at the time. That is that an e-mail could have been opened in a specially created box above which was "very urgent," in which no dozens of e-mails came in, but six came in. Now it turns out that that mailbox should normally be opened twice a day. Apparently, that didn't happen on that day. I'm gonna ask my question again. Was it wise to say that the Netherlands could not have done anything better when Mr El Bakraoui was evicted to the Netherlands and finally disappeared in nothing through Schiphol, which led to more than painful, terrible consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u273	I would just like to say to Mr Pechtold that you cannot link the events of July 2015 one-on-one with the horrible events of last week. I don't think that's right. I do not think Mr Pechtold means that either. I answered the questions that were put to me on Thursday evening on the basis of the information we had at the time. Those answers are the way they were. Did we do what we had to do? The answer to that is yes. Also what the consequences were. As I said earlier, if on 14 July there had been the possibility of doing the same research, that would not have led to a different outcome. However, in replying to the questions and in the letter I sent to the Chamber this morning, I indicated that, in a number of areas, we find that there are issues that we are concerned about and that we would like to change that. That's what I'm gonna do. Mr Pechtold is right. However, that is different from the question put to me on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u274	That is a slightly too easy answer to Mr Pechtold's questions. The Minister did not know at the time that he could not have gotten the answer he wanted. He didn't know then that the Turks would only give information about someone of Belgian nationality. I'll ask the Minister again. Why did he, or did his employees, not open that message to the employees of the Dutch government? Why didn't they respond? That is all the more so because we know by now that the 39 expulsions all around 2015 I believe 33 out of 39 were related to terror. As I said in my term, almost every report had to do with terror. Apart from the fact that there was "very urgent" above and beyond the fact that a code had been sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the intelligence department, the embassy should have known that it was an exception if such a message had nothing to do with terror. So the Netherlands should have just picked up the phone and asked: "Friends, what's going on? Why is this man being deported?" Why didn't that happen? That's a reproach, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u275	Mr Wilders asks a lot of questions at the same time. Let me start with the first question. At the time when the Dutch employees were informed of the fact that an eviction had taken place, thanks to the telephone call made with the Belgian liaison officer, it was immediately done what should be done at that time. It has been checked whether the person concerned was known in the Netherlands or known in an international system. I think we have to note that this was not the case at the time and that it has not been the case for a very long time. When it comes to a person of Belgian nationality, you do not have the possibilities that Mr Wilders is now presenting. It's as simple as that. We have a deal on that. If someone has not been alerted and is not known in any system, and you have immediately checked and taken the right action at the time you could do so, then that has happened. Mr Wilders' second question was why the mail of 14 July was not opened. We don't know if it is. That is also indicated in the answer to the questions. You can't see that in that portal. It's not an e-mail, it's a message on a website run by the Turkish government. So you have to go there yourself, as I explained in the answer to the questions. That means we can't determine whether it's been seen or not. One thing is certain, although I do not know why: the message was not seen on July 14th by one of the liaison officers who should have seen it in principle. It was known the next day and action was taken immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u276	With all due respect, that's still totally incredibly clumsy, isn't it? You know that almost all of the messages entering that portal are terror-related. You know that three-quarters, more than three-quarters, almost 90% of those 39 expulsions in the middle of last year were perhaps half of them about terror. Then it's incredibly clumsy to say that you don't even know if you've been looked in? That's incredible, isn't it? Why doesn't the minister know if they've checked it? Shouldn't the Netherlands have looked into that three times a day? Shouldn't the Netherlands have known that almost every expulsion to Turkey involved a terrorist? That is why we should have looked every day to protect Dutch citizens. The excuse that it was a Belgian isn't an excuse not to look in that portal, is it? What does the Minister make me now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u277	I cannot quite place Mr Wilders' excitement in the light of the facts, as I have also outlined in the letter of inquiry. That portal is used for all message traffic between the Turkish government and the Dutch embassy. It's about everything and everything. It has been about a traveler since 2013 in six cases. That is something completely different from what Mr Wilders has said. In all cases, except in one case, the expulsion was contacted by telephone with the liaison officers. That's the usual way of doing things. At that point, you can take all the actions you need to take. That was not the case, as we know. As a result, it was only the day after that that action could otherwise have been taken a day earlier. The well-known result was that Mr El Bakraoui was not reported in any system, either in the Netherlands or internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u278	That's an excuse. It's not just that portal where there were actually six messages. It's about the total number of evictions. The Minister himself said in his answers to the Chamber that in 2015 there were 39 expulsions, including expulsions in relation to that portal and expulsions that had nothing to do with that. 90% of that had to do with terror. In order to protect the Netherlands, one should have looked at that portal. I find it a shame that the Minister is not yet able to say whether that has been looked at. He should have acted on every report, picked up the phone and asked the Turks, not the Belgians, what was going on. He knew that nine out of ten evictions, portal or not, had something to do with terror. I think it's a big mistake that the Minister left that behind. Now let the Minister admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u279	That wasn't left behind. The facts are that there's a deal with the Turks that they'll call if there's an eviction. That way and on that basis you can take the right steps. That didn't happen once. Mr Wilders has rightly pointed that out. That's what the answer says. The next day that report came through the Belgians. At that time, immediate action was taken which could otherwise have been taken a day earlier if the Belgians had called at that time. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u280	A word about the last thing the Minister said, because that is important. The minister says the deal was that the Turks would always call. The pieces say it was the experience that they did. Was there an appointment, as I think everyone always thought there was with the Turks, or was the experience gained that it was done in a certain way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u281	I have said, as stated in the answer to the parliamentary questions, that it always happened as it did. That was the experience on which this is based. This has happened in all these years. That's what everyone assumed. I indicated in the letter to the Chamber that we think it is very important that concrete agreements are made on this subject, particularly in view of the other aspect I am referring to, namely the people of non-Dutch nationality who are expelled to the Netherlands, or the Dutch who are expelled to another Schengen country. I have indicated that we absolutely want to make further agreements with the Turkish authorities on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u282	I assume that the word 'date', which the Minister has just mentioned, is a slip of the tongue, because it was not an appointment, but an experience rule. Afterwards, I didn't understand that this too turned out to be too late that Turkey didn't indicate the background of the travellers at all. Afterwards, it turned out that the Turks weren't allowed to tell. You have to want to know what's going on every time someone passes through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u283	I fully agree with Mr Buma. That is also why I indicated in the letter to the Chamber that I think it is very important that context is always given in those telephone calls. The experience has also been that this is happening, but it has not happened in this case and that was not provided for in the note either. It is desirable that it should be done. I have also said that I want to resolve this not only for the Netherlands, but also in the context of our Presidency at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u284	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u285	It's been a week since the attacks. Has Turkey been able to clarify it in any way? To be honest, the Minister is actually putting all the balls in Turkey. He's trying to avoid the word "debt," but the e-mail was used wrongly, it shouldn't have been in that box, it should have been reported. Has anyone been in touch about that? And if so, what has Turkey done to prevent this from happening in the future? Has Turkey apologized?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u286	There's been a lot of contact. The Minister for Foreign Affairs can also say a few words about this. Of course, questions have also been asked to the Turkish authorities in order to answer the questions raised by your Chamber. We have received answers to a large number of these questions and these answers have been incorporated in our answers. However, the answers are not yet available in all areas. That is why I have also indicated that, if I receive further information, I will send it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u287	A fact that is not yet clear to me is that the answer to question 35 shows that in 2015 it was five cases of non-Dutch residents who were expelled from the Netherlands by Turkey. Was information on the context available for those five people in none of these five cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u288	I have written in the answer to the questions on those 39 cases, including these five, that I am still trying to figure it out, because in the last three days I have not been able to provide detailed information on all those files. However, I am going to do that and I am going to make sure that your Chamber gets that question answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u289	If it has now been established that the Turkish authorities are not competent to give the Netherlands the reason for the return of a non-Dutch person, is this context information, the reason for the expulsion, not given? Or is there another possibility that this context information has been reported in the other cases, apparently in violation of the Turkish rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u290	So I can't answer that question yet, but I will. I'll make sure your Chamber is informed about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u291	I fully understand that, so soon after the attack, you cannot immediately fix all the mistakes, but the picture is unheard of: Turkey is late in giving information; if Belgium questions in July, there will only be a reply in January afterwards; in September the United States had this man in sight, but that information was only shared in March; before the attack there was consultation between the Belgian and Dutch intelligence services, but in the end no action has been taken and there are people who I have just shared with the Prime Minister, more than 2,000 travellers, who have left, but have not been registered. In what way can we repair the damage incurred in the shortest possible time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u292	It is perhaps good if I use this question from Mr Segers to address the European steps we have taken in the context of our Presidency. With regard to registered travellers, I would like to say to Mr Segers, for the record, that the number of 5 000 is estimated by Europol. No one knows exactly what the number of travellers is. The fact that we are not 100% sure that all known travellers are also registered in the Schengen Information System, the so-called SIS, is worrying. I fully agree with Mr Segers and the Prime Minister. It is one of the priorities of our Presidency, but also of the EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator, Mr Gilles de Kerchove, to address this aspect as a matter of priority. We are coming up with a major action plan in June, which I will give some details about. I fully agree with Mr Segers that we really need to take another step on this issue in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u293	It is indeed about registration, but it is also about the exchange of information. It took place very bafflingly, at months of intervals, and finally happened too late. What steps are being taken in this regard? If the Minister of Security and Justice says: we are going to take steps, when will we get an overview of this? When will we see what steps are being taken and what progress is being made?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u294	With regard to our own steps, the following. We have found that in a number of cases we want to be 100% sure that we are always called by the Turkish authorities, in this particular example, and that we are also given the context. This applies both to the context of a Dutchman who is being expelled to the Netherlands, and to the context of a Dutchman who is being deported to another Schengen country, and to a non-Dutchman who is being deported to the Netherlands. In all cases, we believe that we should have the context. This applies not only to us but also to the other Schengen countries, otherwise we may not all have information that is relevant, as you might conclude in this case. So these are the concrete steps I will take myself. I shall keep the Chamber informed in the usual manner. I also wrote in the letter to the Chamber that I also believe that, within the framework of the EU Presidency, we can be expected to take action on this issue on behalf of the Council. I will report to the Chamber on this in the usual reports that come periodically in the run-up to the JHA Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u295	My final question, Madam President. Tonight is a very specific case of an expulsion by Turkey in which there was indeed no context. Can we assume that was once, but never again? Can we assume that we will never get another case like this again, that we will not accept another person whose context and background we don't know? Can we assume that we will never get another message "very urgent" but have no idea why and why? Is that indeed the category: once, but never again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u296	As the Prime Minister said, that is what we assume. We are, of course, still dealing with the report from the Turkish authorities, which indicated that they would not be competent to provide the information on the basis of their legislation. That's what we need to talk to them about. That's what we're gonna do in the short term. Then I'll report to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u297	I shall first give the floor to Mr Roemer and then to Mr Bontes. I really want to suggest that the Minister then continues with the questions that still have to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u298	However, I would like to come back to the 39 cases which are known and which the Minister says I have not been able to give notice in three days, so I do not know what the problem is. However, who amazes me that the Minister can say in his reply that in 33 cases it is about terrorism and radicalisation and in one case it is about an expired visa? So the minister knows that, but he doesn't know exactly those five. No, I can imagine if he didn't get any of that. Apparently the other 33 or 34 cases have been lightened, but those 5 aren't. That's very contradictory, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u299	No. This is evident from the systems we have. What I want to know, and what I think the Chamber should want to know, is how we dealt with those 39 travellers when they arrived in the Netherlands. What policy has been pursued in this respect? How did we act on that? That is being checked and I will inform the Chamber, as I have already indicated in the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u300	I keep thinking it's really weird. There are 39 return passengers. Five of them are non-Dutch. The Minister, apart from five, can explain the reasons for sending these people back, namely radicalisation or terrorism. But of those five, he can't. And then there are still no bells ringing, in the vein of: what is going on; is it a structural problem that people from all over the Schengen area can just come to the Netherlands from Turkey but we do not know who is coming in? Why didn't the minister ring any bells when he typed this? Why didn't he think, "That's not right at all?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u301	What it says is true. I have already reported to the Chamber and have just repeated that in all these cases except one, there has always been a call. There has always been contact with the Turkish authorities. In this way, we have also taken action. The question then is what we have done. That's exactly what I want to know. I'll inform the Chamber about that. We haven't been able to get it up in those three days, but the Chamber is getting this information, as I have already promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u302	The protocol requires that there should be contact between the Turks and the Netherlands police liaison. That didn't happen. The Minister has not so far been able to explain why this has not happened, but I would like to know. After all, it's not in the letter. Does this also fall into the category "well, I still have to figure it out and you will be informed later"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u303	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u304	I'm not comfortable with that. It's crucial in the whole process of where things can go wrong. This could prevent casualties. So why hasn't the Turks been contacted immediately at this point, to ensure that every contact is made from now on? I can't understand how it's gonna be sorted out later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u305	Mr Bontes is now raising two points. One is the question of what we are going to do to make sure that we are always in contact with the Dutch authorities. At this point, I have indicated the steps we are going to take. The second thing Mr Bontes is referring to is the question of whether there is a protocol. No, there isn't. There are rules of experience, which have always been followed with the exception of one case. That's what we want to get together, that's what we're gonna do, and I'm gonna inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u306	Finally, Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u307	So there was a protocol. There were rules that had to be respected. One of those rules was: we contact the Dutch police liaison in such cases. That was just the deal. Then there's a protocol. That has not been respected. My concern is that it is still not being respected. So at this point, things could go wrong again. Why didn't they just climb on the phone to make sure that this appointment was secured?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u308	That is exactly what we are going to do, as we have indicated. That's what's gonna happen. But for the record, there was no protocol. That is also what I indicated in the answer to the parliamentary questions. We are going to ensure that there is a protocol, not only for ourselves, but also for the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u309	Go ahead, that doesn't sound so good...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u310	No, Mr. Bontes! I didn't give you the floor. Mr Wilders, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u311	When I just said that I found it incomprehensible that 80% of the returned Syrians, at least the returned people from Turkey, had something to do with terrorism, the Minister of Justice replied: yes, but this came from the electronic portal, in which only six people had been reported in recent years. Well, that only makes it worse, I say to the Minister of Justice! In answer to question 34, you write that the other five from that electronic portal were four terrorists, two who had already been to Syria and two who were on their way there, and one spy. Four terrorists and one spy! So that electronic portal was actually some kind of alarm box. If you got a message in there, you knew it was always wrong. That makes it even more inconceivable that you didn't go to look and even now you don't know if we saw that message. Four terrorists and a spy! An alarm box, but you don't even know if you've looked at it. You have been blundering, Minister of Justice! You've been blundering. Admit it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u312	As Mr Wilders himself pointed out in an earlier question, the vast majority of expulsions were related to terrorism or terrorism-related issues. So this division is no surprise to Mr Wilders either than it is to me. I have indicated that it is very important for us to always be informed that an expulsion is taking place and that it is taking place in a way that gives us the best chance of taking appropriate measures. This is a telephone call, as has always been the case with one case. That is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u313	I don't know if you know, but with a phone you can not only get a call, but also call. That seems to be a new technique, but phone works both ways. Why didn't you call the Turks? You knew this was an alarm box where the terrorists and the spies burst. Then you don't wait till you get a call! What the hell is that? Then you say: I'm gonna call myself, because my phone works too! I'll call you myself! You didn't. In that respect, you have really missed the case. Ten Members of Parliament ask you to do so, but you refuse to admit that you dropped a sting here. Just admit it! That would please you. You're not gonna make up for it, but at least you'll acknowledge that you were wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u314	I do not know what Mr Wilders is referring to, because at the time of the announcement that this gentleman had travelled to the Netherlands, on 15 July, as a result of a telephone call with the Belgian authorities that took place then, we immediately did what we had otherwise done a day earlier: check all the backgrounds and see if the person concerned was registered in the national or international registers. That was not the case. On this basis, further action has been taken. That's how it happened. I don't know who I should have called and when I should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u315	Last year, the problem of those jihadists at the Turkish-Syrian border also occurred. My colleagues Berndsen-Jansen and Sjoerdsma asked written questions to the Minister on 9 April about the agreements between the Netherlands and Turkey on EU-jihadists or Syrians. Does the minister remember what he replied?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u316	I don't have that literally ready, but Mr. Pechtold does. He's gonna tell me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u317	I am sorry that the Minister does not know this, because it is painful that the Minister had answered those questions before this incident with El Bakraoui occurred. Then the Minister said that no agreement was reached with Turkey on this matter. In May last year, the Minister, following written questions from this Chamber, announced that there were no agreements with the Turks. Meanwhile, this man has come to Schiphol, but all this time the Dutch government has made no attempt to make agreements with the Turkish government about what to do with Syrians who are expelled by Turkey to the Netherlands. Why didn't that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u318	I think that makes sense, because there was an existing practice that all people who were evicted were always reported directly to the police liaison in one way or another and then action was taken. That's how it happened. Mr Pechtold knows that, because I have also replied to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u319	I have three very clear questions for the Minister. I ask him to consider his answer to that question. So there is no protocol or written agreement between the Turkish and Dutch authorities on the method of eviction? So there has been no consultation between embassies, Dutch or Turkish, and ministries, Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs or Justice, on the transfer of citizens? There has therefore been no consultation, chaired by the Netherlands and Turkey, on the fight against terrorism in which agreements have been reached on the expulsion of Dutch people suspected of acts of terrorism? On all these three things, which we asked for in May, the Minister now says: there is no such thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u320	On the question of whether there was a protocol, I also made it clear in the answer to the parliamentary questions that there was no protocol and no agreement, but an existing practice which, on the basis of experience, led to a notification in all cases. The answer to the second question is that, as far as I am aware, these agreements have not been made. I assume that I cannot confirm here that there are contacts between the Dutch police liaisons and the Turkish authorities, because that is their job. The answer to the questions raised by the Chamber also shows that in all cases of expulsion there is contact about the expulsion. There are contacts, but there are no appointments. I believe that Mr Pechtold's third question concerns the Presidency of the Foreign Fighters Group, which we share with Turkey. Let me see if the Foreign Minister can say more about it. I assume that no agreement has been reached on this either, because at that time there was no reason to agree on how to deal with these expulsions, because the method worked on its own on the basis of experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u321	It's a week later now. A letter was sent, too late, on Thursday night where things weren't clear yet. Meanwhile, there are accusations against the Turks and the Belgians. 166 questions have been asked. Today is almost a year after on 9 April two Members of my party asked the Minister if there were any appointments and why not. That's when they say no. I'm asking again now. So there is no written protocol that doesn't immediately show that there are agreements that the Turks have shared their methods, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Justice or Home Affairs, with the Dutch. And even in that shared presidency, the Minister says that no agreement has been reached on the expulsion of jihadgoers to the Netherlands. Unless the minister says he's still gonna look into it, we're gonna take it for granted if he says no now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u322	I cannot speak for all the ministries to which Mr Pechtold has just referred. I don't know what I'm gonna do. I wrote that to your Chamber on 9 April and also in the reply to the questions you received this morning. I have noted that I consider it desirable that these agreements should be made. I will work on that and I will report to your Chamber on that. I promised to say something in addition to what the Prime Minister said about European cooperation. It's a good thing we're looking into what happened. Firstly, Europol's European Counter Terrorism Centre has been active since 1 January. At the moment, it actively supports the French authorities and, without doubt, since the last week, also the Belgian authorities in analysing data. In total, the French have provided Europol's ECTC with an equivalent of about 12 million books. Every day, from an analysis, they are all used to support the detection and prosecution of those involved in the attacks in Paris. Subsequently, the Counter Terrorism Group was established by the Dutch Presidency and in particular the General Intelligence and Security Service; the Prime Minister already spoke about it. People are very busy creating a platform. That platform should allow for information exchange between Member States' services. This is also one of the important consequences of the recent agreements we have made in the context of further strengthening the exchange of data. Then there is Eurojust. This agency plays a coordinating role in the public ministries in this area. We have organised a number of conferences on the basis of which we have come up with an action plan. It provides for two elements: firstly, the identification of remaining obstacles. The Prime Minister has already said that there are, and I recognize that image. Secondly, concrete solutions must be identified, with a concrete timetable. This is also a consequence of the recommendations made by the EU coordinator on counter-terrorism towards the European Council. We are also talking about the interoperability of a number of existing systems. This should include the ECRIS system, which brings together criminal convictions of EU citizens. The Schengen Information System is of course also important in this respect, which includes, among other things, the data of citizens suspected of terrorism. In the end, the PNR system is also important in this respect. We hope that the European Parliament will be able to decide on the latter system very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u323	The Minister has often used the word "appropriate" for the way it was handled. I am surprised that in 2015 or 2016 a data exchange platform has yet to be built. So there was no such platform at all? There was no fixed data exchange system? Why else would we have to build it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u324	Data has always been exchanged by the intelligence and security services. They've been doing that for years. However, the question arises as to whether it can be simpler. That point has been raised by the Dutch AIVD in the context of the Dutch Presidency. This is now being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u325	Now it's just another little thing. The Minister acted as if very big things were happening, but it is actually not that bad. The follow-up is the so-called "interoperability" of criminal information. That is a good word, but I also think that we can assume that since 2004 or 2005 such things have just happened by default. Surely the Dutch people can assume that this will happen? We have a minister to make sure it happens. We shouldn't have someone who suddenly says, "God, we have to improve the arrangements."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u326	This means that links are being established between the existing systems. Mr Buma knows as well as I do that there are very pressing questions about the protection of the privacy of the people whose data are included in those systems. Mr Buma knows as well as I do, however critical it may be in the House of Representatives. I can tell Mr Buma that this is no different in the European Parliament. I now understand from Mr Buma that he is very much in favour of making these links between these systems. I am pleased about that, because with these proposals we will have to come back to the Chamber on a number of points. I am not yet convinced that all parties will share the CDA's view. I am not convinced that all parties will agree that it is a good idea to link the data from, for example, the Eurodac system to the Schengen Information System or to the PNR system. The Eurodac system includes fingerprints of asylum seekers. There has also been a lot of discussion about this in the Netherlands. There was no majority in the Chamber for some of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u327	On the one hand, there is the Prime Minister who said: we are at war. On the other hand, there are actually only obstacles which would make things very difficult again. In between, there is now a big discrepancy. Either there is urgency, it must and we must prevent terrorist attacks. Or say: we continue in the current way, where everything goes step by step and we do two years on new AIVD legislation. That way, when I hear it like that, it also takes endlessly before we have a platform or 'interoperability'. I'm asking the Minister to speed up a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u328	I don't recognize myself in the picture that no pace would be made. It is true that in a number of areas things can really be better. The Prime Minister has already shared that with the Chamber. We are committed to this in the European Presidency, and I will continue to do so. I also think that I should do that and that Mr Buma and the other Members of Parliament should expect that from the government. Then I come on March 16th and 17th, and the information the Dutch police received from the FBI. There have been some misunderstandings and images that I think should be reduced to the facts. On 16 March, the FBI informed the Dutch police liaison that the Belgian authorities are looking for two persons. That's Ibrahim El Bakraoui and his brother Khalid. Ibrahim, the FBI informs the Dutch police, is wanted for criminal activities and Khalid for terrorism-related activities. The latter was no surprise because, as I have already written to the Chamber, we know that he had already been reported in this way by the Belgian authorities in December. The next day, the Dutch police spoke to the Belgians. Then we talked about both brothers and it turned out that the Belgians now consider both brothers radicalized. This is how the information was provided. The FBI information was therefore based, according to the information itself, on data which the FBI had apparently received from the Belgians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u329	Did you know on March 16, when you received that message from the FBI, where the two gentlemen were at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u330	On 16 March the Dutch government did not know where these two gentlemen were.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u331	We have just discussed it in detail: one of the two gentlemen was sent to the Netherlands via Turkey on 16 March. You were told on 16 March, a week before that terrible attack, that one person was suspected of criminal activity and the other person was associated with terrorist activity. Then I wonder why you didn't put out an APB that same day. Perhaps that could have prevented something from happening. You heard from the FBI about one person you knew had landed in the Netherlands, because the Turks had evicted him to the Netherlands. You knew it had something to do with crime/terror. You didn't know where he was. So he could still be in the Netherlands, because he had been deported to the Netherlands. And you didn't put out a BOLO a week before the attack. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u332	Just for clarity, Khalid was spotted by Belgium on 11 December 2015 in the so-called Schengen Information System. I received today the information from the Belgian Minister of Justice that on 12 January a silent alert was also issued in the Schengen Information System for the control of Ibrahim. That means that the Belgians were looking for these people and had done everything they had to do to establish that. Then there is the question of why we were unable to establish on 23 March that Ibrahim had also been reported. We have asked the Belgians for more information on this. Tonight I understand from them that they turned that alert into a European arrest warrant on 22 or 23 March. The alert then lapsed, so that we could not determine it ourselves, but this is the information we received from Belgian colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u333	Now, if possible, the answer to my question, because you say a lot but do not answer my question. Ibrahim has been deported to the Netherlands by the Turks. On March 16th, the FBI will tell you the background. You knew that he had been to Amsterdam in the Netherlands. You didn't know where he was on the 16th. I just asked you that. The international alert, the European arrest warrant of the Belgians, was only after the attack. Why didn't you put out a European arrest warrant a week before the attack when you knew the man had a criminal/terrorist background, an APB? Maybe he would have been caught in the scraps and we could have prevented this attack.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u334	Because it is the Belgians who have undertaken and have also had to undertake these activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u335	No, that wasn't until after!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u336	No, because the Belgians have already reported Mr Ibrahim El Bakraoui in the Schengen Information System in January, well before 16 March, and the brother in December. So there was no role at all for the Dutch police to add anything to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u337	No, that's not true. I'm just asking you, do you know where he was? That's what I started my interrupting rounds with. You said no. So that means that the man could still be in the Netherlands. Then you won't run into him when he's in the Schengen Information System. If he stays in the Netherlands, you won't run into him. That means that you should have issued a Dutch arrest warrant at least on the 16th acute after you received the information from the FBI. After all, you did not know that he was no longer in the Netherlands. Maybe he was still in the Netherlands. By not doing so, we may have missed a chance to arrest him, and if we had arrested him, he might not have been able to commit an attack. Do you realise what it means that you did not issue an arrest warrant for someone who could have been in the Netherlands for another week, in which a Schengen report from the Belgians had not helped? You could have prevented that attack, perhaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u338	That conclusion cannot be reached on the basis of these facts, of course, as Mr Wilders also knows. But one thing is certain: it is also not right what Mr Wilders is saying. At the time when there is a Schengen alert, according to the Belgians, that was the case for Ibrahim in January and for Khalid in December; we have also found that this is the case.................................................................................................................................................................................... That's how the system works. That's how we do it to all the people who get this done. We do so ourselves in the Schengen Information System. If you find such a person, you can then ask him about it and if you need to extradite or arrest him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u339	This answer really rattles on all sides. On 25 September, the FBI has already put this man who landed in the Netherlands at Schiphol Airport, on an American watchlist. On 16 March, the FBI reports to the Netherlands that these brothers have been radicalised and that one of them has a criminal past. Why do you think the FBI is calling the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u340	I have no idea why the FBI sent an e-mail to the Netherlands. I should be speculating on that, and I do not think that is what Mr Pechtold is asking me to do. I would like to emphasise that this was indeed known from both brothers. In December 2015 it was already known that Khalid was suspected of terrorism and according to the Belgians' statement Ibrahim was also reported in January. So it was not news for the Belgians on 16 March when that was discussed with them by the police and vice versa.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u341	This is still rattling. That Ibrahim landed here in the summer of 2015. In September, the FBI has already been informed and has put him on a watchlist. On 16 March they call the Netherlands. Didn't the alarm ring with you or with the services at any time? Wasn't there any thought at the time, but damn it, that's the guy who came to us at Schiphol Airport and we didn't get to it in time because of a non-working infobox? Why do you think the FBI called the Netherlands? You say they're Belgians. Hasn't anyone said: what weird if they're Belgians, why are they calling us; couldn't that help with the man we missed who was deported to the Netherlands? Could this be a story?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u342	I don't know if that's possible. I do not know why the FBI informed the Dutch about the information that the Belgians had apparently given to the Americans. I would like to come back to the facts. The facts are that the FBI informed the Dutch police that the Belgian authorities were looking for these two persons: one because of criminal backgrounds and the other because of terrorism. The latter was not news, because it was already known at that time. That was already known in December. The other was not news either, because it had been known since January, at least according to the information given by the Belgians in the SIS, but you only look up there when you also find the person concerned and that did not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u343	Just now the minister said he didn't know if Ibrahim El Bakraoui was still in the Netherlands. He said he doesn't know. He can't rule that out. The man wanted to go to the Netherlands because he was wanted in Belgium. So it could be very good that he was here all this time. Then the FBI calls the Netherlands and says, "Watch out, we've known since September, but we're reporting two radicalized brothers now. So I ask the question again: was the link between Ibrahim and his coming to Schiphol the summer before that, yes or no? I find it difficult that after a week of questions the Minister still does not have this case in order and therefore apparently did not ask the FBI why they are calling the Netherlands. My idea is that this has everything to do with the Americans knowing he'd landed at Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u344	That is really Mr Pechtold's speculation. I don't know; that's not known either. Mr Pechtold pretends that the Americans have reported something that the Americans knew. The Americans have reported to the Dutch police liaison. It is more common for the FBI to send messages to the Dutch police liaison that the Belgian authorities were looking for these two gentlemen, one because of criminal backgrounds and the other because of radicalisation and terrorism-related antecedents. That information was shared the next day, at least discussed with the Belgians. In the answers to the parliamentary questions, I have stated that it stated that both brothers were concerned because they were both radicalised. That's what the answers say. I don't know, and I'm not going to speculate on why the FBI reported to the Netherlands what the Belgian authorities were looking for. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u345	I'm really starting to feel bad right now, 'cause I have to keep asking. When a week before the attacks the FBI called the Netherlands and Belgium about these two figures, was there a link made in the Netherlands with Ibrahim El Bakraoui, who landed the summer before at Schiphol Airport and who we missed? Was that linked, yes or no? What happened on 17 March, a week before the attack, in the Netherlands, where he was able to stay at that time, to make every effort to arrest him? My first question is: has the link been established between the summer and the letter from the FBI? My second question is: what happened in the week before the attack to make sure that we do everything we can to get at least that Ibrahim, who was hopefully present in our system by now, in the Netherlands, Belgium or anywhere else in the Schengen area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u346	No, that link wasn't made. The Belgians had issued an alert on the person concerned. We don't know exactly on what grounds, but we do know about the brother. He would have just come up in the systems the moment we found him. That's the usual way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u347	How does the Minister judge that? Someone came in here in July of that year. Next thing you know, the FBI has to tell us. That's remarkable. What our Belgian neighbours apparently knew a long time ago, but that is not what this minister and our device are doing. They say: no, this is a problem for Belgium, because it is a resident of Belgium. We live in a Europe with open borders, something I am passionately in favour of. But then you have to work with each other. Then you must feel responsible as the Netherlands when criminals come in here and give follow-up to it. Then I ask the Minister that is becoming a bit of a red thread or he thinks that the Netherlands or he himself has made a mistake in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u348	Mr Klaver assumes that he would be in the Netherlands. The system works like this. When a SIS alert is made by someone who is concerned about a country in Europe, it is common for you to check that SIS alert when you find someone like that. This happens by default with every stand or arrest in the Netherlands. That's the way you work with each other. It happens. In this case, that would have happened. Except he wasn't held up. If that had happened, it would have come up and we would have taken action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u349	This is exactly the point. This gentleman has entered the Netherlands. March 16th we are warned by the FBI that there is information about this person. Surely the alarm bells should ring to find out what is going on with this person and whether they are still staying in the Netherlands? That is the key point that I believe colleagues from the left to the right are trying to ask for here today. This is the job of the Dutch government, isn't it? You have to ask around, don't you? You have to check if this person is still on Dutch soil and what can you do to rule that out? As I hear it, no action has been taken. It's possible. Mistakes can be made. I'm not asking for error. But if you see things like this don't happen, admit it. I find it almost scandalous today, to be quite honest, that this minister makes all kinds of statements in the answers that have been given to the Belgians and now again that the information from the FBI came through the Belgians, while the Belgian police then sends out a press release stating that Belgium has not been informed at all. A week after the attacks, they are constantly pointing at each other. Put your hand in your own bosom!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u350	The Dutch government and the Dutch services are doing everything in their power to ensure that we find and maintain the people we know should be concerned about them and that we are actively looking for those. In this particular case, there was no reason to do so. The men have been spotted. In one case, I do not know exactly on what basis the Belgians and in the other case it happened because of terrorism. Then you just do what you have to do. The Belgians would do the same when it comes to an alert from us and we are talking about an alert from the Belgians. Once you run into someone like that, you know what to do with it. And then it happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u351	"As soon as you meet someone like that." Like you're gonna wait, and then all of a sudden, "Well, that's a coincidence! I'll meet you here! We've got to get you." That's not how it works, is it? It's about not knowing if someone who is considered a terrorist or a serious criminal, heavy enough to alert at least the FBI and have them contact the Netherlands... And then this minister says, "Yes, if we run into them, we'll pick them up, of course. Well, at least we'll catch 'em! But what are you doing actively in this? I believe that the Minister remains unclear about this. Once again, it may not have happened and it may be that no action has been taken. But then just be honest and clear about it and then please admit it. Then this debate could be a lot shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u352	I'm also saying it didn't happen. There's no discussion about that at all. On the basis of the alert, what needs to be done is done. There was no reason to suspect that the person concerned was in the Netherlands at the time. The Belgians did not give any indication of this either, not even in the conversation on 17 March. There is therefore no follow-up. You can't expect that from the Dutch police either. We act on the basis of information from the services or from the police themselves. This has also been very successful in recent days. Let me give you an example: if the French authorities tell us that they know that a certain person is in the Netherlands and ask us to look for him, we will find someone like that, then we will take him in and take action immediately. That is what Mr Klaver should expect from the Dutch Government. However, you cannot assume that we assume to everyone who enters signals, that he is by definition on Dutch soil and that we will find that person. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u353	This person had landed in the Netherlands. So this wasn't a case like all the others. This was a special case, because this person had landed in the Netherlands. Why wasn't that looked at? I can see why it didn't happen. I am also glad that the Minister admits that, but we all see that, and that is why we are all asking questions here. Why didn't it happen? Really, I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u354	I would point out to Mr Klaver that the essence of this case was that we did not know that he had landed in the Netherlands. We did not find that out until the Turkish Government informed us about it. We didn't know that until last week. We didn't know the man had landed in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u355	We're going back to July last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u356	I am sorry to interrupt Mr Klaver, but I have to say it very carefully. On 15 July we knew that he had been deported to the Netherlands, but there was no information that he had subsequently stayed in the Netherlands. I have just given that answer to Mr Pechtold. There was no information on that. But if it's possible... yes, it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u357	We might be getting somewhere. That's exactly the point. The best man was in Holland. We knew that a day later. We say: he's already landed, too bad. No, just then we need to be extra alert to see where that person is staying. Especially if a few months later, in March of this year, the FBI warns the Netherlands and no action is taken, no attempt is even made to find that person, then I really don't get it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u358	But I would point out that the next day, when it was discussed with the Belgians, there was no request from the Belgians. There, too, there was no need to remind the Dutch Government of this. I understand very well what Mr Klaver is saying. I also understand his thought formation. However, this has not happened, as I say on the basis of the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u359	The Minister now points to the Belgians, who did not ask the Netherlands on 17 March what was going on. But it was the Netherlands that received a somewhat unexpected report on 16 March, namely something that actually played between Belgium and America? I have heard the Minister say earlier that he does not really know why the Americans were sending in the Netherlands at the time. That makes perfect sense, doesn't it? That man had come to the Netherlands six months earlier. Why wasn't the Americans asked at all: why are you telling us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u360	Because that question wasn't asked to the Americans. I shall put it to the Americans and then report it to the Chamber. Just for clarity: the American information was no more and no less than that both brothers were wanted by the Belgian authorities, which was confirmed by the Belgians the next day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u361	With one difference, namely that probably not everyone who is wanted in Belgium is reported to the FBI, which then links it back to the Netherlands. There must have been a reason why the Americans did that. Or is it just another matter of that: it is customary that we receive that information and then we proceed to the order of the day?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u362	I understand that the FBI regularly informs the Netherlands, in the context of the usual flow between the Dutch police and the FBI. I do not know the background to the communication that the Belgian authorities were looking for those concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u363	Then I'll turn it around. Is it common for nothing to happen? The Minister says it happens more often. Apparently, the FBI reports more often. In all these cases, will there be waiting? You have to check every report, knowing that only one crazy person can be, whether that person has landed in the Netherlands or whether it has landed here? This man then immediately realized that he had been deported by Turkey and landed on 15 July. In short, all the alarm bells should have gone off. But the Minister says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u364	Or that report... Mr Buma asked me...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u365	These kinds of reports happen all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u366	I don't know anything about reports like this either, because I don't know the rest of the reports. All I know is that the FBI has informed us that the Belgians were looking for these two gentlemen and that report has been checked with the Belgians. So that was discussed with the Belgians the next day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u367	So that's what we've been talking about with the Belgians?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u368	In reply to the parliamentary questions, it is stated that on 17 March, during a working visit, I expressed it very precisely with the Belgian authorities, which was discussed by the Dutch police liaison. He then confirmed that both brothers were wanted because of radicalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u369	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u370	Yes, but the Belgian Director-General, not the least of the judicial police, is sending us today the information that it has not been exchanged on the 17th.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u371	What the Belgian Director-General has reported is that these brothers have indeed been mentioned, but that it has not been discussed whether or not the information came from the FBI, and that is also logical, because the FBI information looked at information from the Belgian government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u372	If the FBI calls, sends an e-mail or at least informs the Netherlands that these two brothers have been spotted by Belgium, the FBI doesn't just do that. Why does the FBI give that information to the Netherlands? Because the FBI does make the connection that these brothers have flown into the Netherlands before, at least one of them flew from Turkey to the Netherlands. I cannot understand why it was sufficient to introduce the Schengen Information System. That's a border control system. The police don't look at that every day at all. Then you're gonna put in an alert for the national police and the D.A.'s office, asking for a BOLO, arrest and arraignment of those guys? Those are dangerous terrorists; you know that. Then why don't you take further action? That's how you put cops in danger. Police people are surveilling the streets in the neighborhood, but do not know that these men may be present in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u373	Mr Bontes is now taking a whole series of steps that are not all in line with the facts. Firstly, it is not yet clear whether Ibrahim was also wanted as a terrorist at that time. Mr Bontes accepts that, but that is not clear, because we can no longer see what was in the Schengen Information System at the time. I have indicated that this has now been removed because of the European arrest warrant issued by the Belgians on 22 or 23 March. We can therefore no longer establish that. This also means that I cannot answer Mr Bontes' questions as to why the FBI is providing information from the Belgian government to the Dutch government. Nor can I endorse the conclusions drawn by Mr Bontes from the two non-existent facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u374	It is quite clear that the Americans have done so, because they have previously made the connection of a flight from Turkey to the Netherlands, in which one of those people definitely got off at Schiphol. Doesn't it make sense for the Americans to make that connection? Why doesn't the Netherlands make that link? I can't understand that. It shows naivety, weakness. You're not on top of it and you're not focused if you don't make that connection and just say, "Travel on." The police should have been informed. There's no other way to do that in situations like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u375	I have answered this question several times in response to various questions. I do not support Mr Bontes' thinking on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u376	I feel that the whole Chamber does not need a cross-examination, but a well-prepared minister who can tell us what happened. Why hasn't the infobox been opened since the first day that man landed here? Why did the FBI call the Netherlands? Then why didn't we call back and ask why the FBI is calling the Netherlands when it comes to two Belgians? If the minister says he's not aware of it, I want to hear it from Minister Plasterk, because he's the one who's finally going over the AIVD. Whether I want a written preparation of the Minister for the second term, with a factual account of why this is. I don't need some kind of cross-examination in this debate, but we're not getting an answer. We are told: yes, I do not remember or I do not share your view. That's not an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u377	I do not know why the American authorities thought they should inform the Netherlands and what the Belgian authorities have apparently reported to the Americans. I have said that I will look into that and inform the Chamber. For the rest, I am responding on the basis of the facts that have been established in recent days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u378	We can keep going in circles, but I prepared myself well for what the Minister said last week and with the answers to the 166 questions. These are the gaps we are trying to fill in in such a debate. If the Minister can't even tell if he knew if that man was in the Netherlands all this time, why the FBI called us... you hear the questions, chairman, but we don't get an answer to them. I believe that this is important for the conclusions and what we can learn from them, which the Prime Minister also insists on. I ask for a suspension, for the Minister of the Interior to come, if he does, or for a written statement of what the Minister knows or does not know. I do not feel like leaving it like this, and then we have to have another debate next week, when another letter comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u379	The Minister has also promised to provide written information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u380	For the record, the relationship between the Dutch police and the FBI is not a matter for the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. That's just a police matter that I'm responsible for. I have already said that I do not know the answer to those questions and that I am going to make sure that the answer comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u381	But when?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u382	That won't happen again tonight, but I'll take care of that as soon as possible. I also indicated in the letter that I still have requests for information in a number of areas and that I will ensure that the Chamber is informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u383	I really need to object. I think this is a shameful situation. This is the absolute low point of this debate. We have a Minister of Justice who can't even remember if we saw what the Turks planted in that portal, that alarm box that only terrorists and spies were in. Then comes the FBI, who says it's someone who has to do with terrorism and crime. There's no BOLO on that man who landed in the Netherlands and whose whereabouts we don't know. The Minister says that we did not run into him in the alert system of Schengen, but he should not have waited until he met him, but should have tracked him down by issuing an APB. Suppose that man was still in the Netherlands, then by letting that happen we could not have caught that man before the attack. I think this is very serious. I want more information on this. If this continues, I will ask the Minister, through the chairman, to consider his position. It cannot have been that we could have prevented an attack. It's someone who landed in the Netherlands. The minister says he doesn't know if he was still in the Netherlands and that he didn't put out an APB. Maybe that man only left for Brussels a day before the attack, to do the things he did there. This minister could have prevented that. If the Minister cannot remove that suspicion, he must consider his position as to whether he can still remain a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u384	I understand Mr Wilders' question, and I understand the concern behind it, let me put it first. I would point out that in this particular case it is part of the Belgian activities in the field of the detection and prosecution of these two persons. It is up to the Belgian authorities to issue or not issue an arrest warrant or to opt for an alert in the SIS list. That's what the Belgians did. In the Netherlands there was no criminal investigation of the persons concerned. The Belgians didn't ask for that either. As I said, the Belgians issued an arrest warrant on 23 or 22 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u385	That's after the hit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u386	I understand Mr Wilders' concern, but I am not going to take responsibility for criminal investigations that took place in Belgium because the Belgian government was looking for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u387	This is to become despondent. Am I talking to a wall or something? The Belgians didn't put out an APB until after the attack. Someone had landed in the Netherlands from whom you said on my first interruption that you didn't know where he was the week after the FBI informed you. In the Netherlands, therefore, that has nothing to do with Belgium..... someone from whom the FBI had said: that man has something to do with terrorism and crime. Apart from Belgium, you should have protected the Netherlands and put out an APB. You didn't. The man then committed terror not in the Netherlands, but in Belgium. If you have that on your conscience indirectly by not issuing an APB, not the Belgians but you, then you should consider whether you can still be a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u388	I have the impression that the same questions are now being asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u389	But I can't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u390	I understand that, but we're repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u391	I want to make a point of order. Because we want to handle this debate carefully, we postponed it last week and asked questions and received answers, for which, of course, thanks. It appears that answers cannot be given on crucial points. On behalf of the political groups of SP, CDA, GroenLinks and PVV, I would like to ask that the Minister first give those answers in writing and that the debate be suspended until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u392	I'll look at the minister first. Is this a real request? Can he live up to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u393	It is not for me to comment on a point of order of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u394	No, but Mr Pechtold asked on behalf of a number of political groups whether written information could be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u395	I have indicated in my letter that we have information on a number of points. I have just informed Mr Pechtold that I will inform the Chamber in writing about a number of specific questions, such as the background to the FBI communication. It is then up to the Chamber to discuss it or not with me. I'm not in charge of order. That's really up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u396	I know, but a written response has been requested. I will submit the proposal to the rest of the Chamber and see if there is a majority in favour of this order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u397	Then I have the question of when the Minister thinks he has that information at his disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u398	Yes, that was also Mr Pechtold's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u399	I'll just have to see what points we have left. As soon as possible, it's as simple as that. If there's any information, I'll send it to the Chamber. That's what the letter says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u400	Mr Pechtold, would you repeat your request? I would ask all the groups if they are in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u401	For the sake of clarity and in order not to draw conclusions on questions that have not yet been answered, I would like to know from the Minister when he can send the information. Given the time and because it has to do with other services, it seems impossible to me to do so tonight. So I ask the Minister what period it can take. If that is a reasonable period of time, I think it would be wise for us to suspend the debate until then, for the sake of care. We can then read the answers carefully and conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u402	The starting point is, of course, that the Chamber must be fully and correctly informed. As I indicated in the letter, I need time for these specific points and for the outstanding questions. The letter could be at the Chamber next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u403	What do the other groups think of this proposal to suspend the debate until written information reaches the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u404	I can also imagine that we will still have an answer to other questions that have been asked, for example to the Foreign Minister. If we then suspend, the second term may take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u405	So you support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u406	I agree with that: the second deadline next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u407	Support for this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u408	Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u409	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u410	Same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u411	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u412	Let us indeed finish the first term and do the second term next week. It's okay with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u413	That seems clear to me. I therefore believe that there is a little more clarity as to what exactly additional information is available. Otherwise we'll get a third round. I think it would benefit everyone that this does not happen. If, in the course of this first period, there is clarity as to what exactly is lacking in information, that information may be given in writing and the second period may then be kept.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u414	I think it's a good thing we're gonna stop spinning in circles tonight and move on next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u415	Good idea to move on next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u416	Then I propose that the first deadline be completed now and that the debate be suspended until a time to be determined. I give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice to answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't actually get to my first block, but I've been able to give a lot of answers. So I'll go through the rest with some speed. Mr Buma asked about the formation of the cabinet on the prevention of the detention of persons. I have noted that Mr Buma has indicated that this must be done within the framework of the rule of law. We have had an exchange of views on this matter before. I have also indicated that I fully understood the concerns expressed by Mr Buma and others, including in a motion. We have taken action on two points. Firstly, I have announced that I will submit a letter of amendment on the legislative proposal which deals with administrative measures, in which I will create the possibility of applying the ban on the territory that the Minister of Security and Justice can impose on someone who is concerned about, for example, a person whose basis is insufficient to initiate criminal proceedings against it, the means of applying the anklet to be able to control that ban. I think that this is an important step towards meeting the need of a large part of the Chamber to have the possibility, where criminal enforcement is possible, of at least having control over the person concerned. The note following the report and the accompanying letter of amendment will be sent to the Chamber next week. Then I come to the point of remanded detention that has been put forward by Mr Segers but has been supported by other spokesmen. I'd like to take a look at that proposal. We have already made an exception in 2007 with regard to terrorist offences. At that time, we indicated that less severe conditions should be attached to the application of pre-trial detention in these cases. I think it might be workable to see if it is possible to extend that time limit. The thinking behind it is that conducting criminal investigations in Syria and Iraq is extremely complicated, despite the fact that there is already being done on file-building during someone's exit. It is therefore reasonable to allow more time for this criminal investigation. It will also have to be tested in the light of the ECHR in the end, but I am very willing to take a positive look at it when the Court gives its opinion. Then I come to the existing laws and regulations that Mr Buma asked for. I can confirm to him that we will apply all existing possibilities to the maximum. In this context, Mr Buma rightly raised the issue of compulsory admission under the Law on special admissions to psychiatric hospitals, the BOPZ. We can and we can do that now. If there are grounds for doing so, we will certainly do so. There must be indications of the person concerned. That will therefore have to be looked at carefully. So all existing possibilities are being used. I therefore propose that the possibility of an anklet combined with the ban be offered by means of a legislative proposal which I hope will be able to discuss with the Chamber in the very near future. In addition, I would like to hear how further we need to deal with remand. At least it's something I'm positive about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u418	A very short question, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u419	We just have to come back to this later. With regard to the anklet, I mentioned the example of the man from Doesburg. He had an anklet but disappeared from the GPS and he was gone. So that anklet isn't the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u420	No, but neither is the administrative detention that some parties in the Chamber are asking for. We seriously believe that we cannot accept people's freedom without a suspicion of a criminal offence. That doesn't relate to the rules we have for that. That is something other than imposing a restriction of freedom. I think that can hold. That is why I will send a letter of amendment to the Chamber next week. I would like to invite Mr Buma to look into that. Support from the CDA will be greatly appreciated in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u421	A brief question, too, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u422	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I do not understand the Minister's objections to the important proposal on administrative detention. A country that we can learn a lot about at this time is Israel. That is the only democracy in the Middle East, which uses administrative detention against both Jewish extremists and, above all, Palestinian extremists. If the intelligence services have information that is not yet ready for criminal prosecution, people can be interned in public administration for six months. It works great, again: both ways. It is simply a democratic country, the only democratic country in the Middle East. I don't understand why the Minister has such objections. Other countries also use it. Israel is the best example. Israel knows how to deal with terror like no other country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u423	We have already had an extensive exchange of views with the Chamber on this subject. I really see that the limits of the rule of law stand in the way of such a proposal on this point. I think it is very important that we take people's freedom only if there is a very serious reason. By the way, I note that in the Netherlands there is simply a system in which the intelligence and security services can, by means of an official message, ensure that sufficient information is available to prosecute. Then remand will apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u424	Like Israel isn't a rule of law; what the hell? The borders of the rule of law? As if Israel is not a rule of law! Israel is a rule of law. We can learn from it. It is precisely cases where there are no official posts, where the AIVD does not yet issue an official report because the information is not criminally mature, where there are indications, but there is no criminal evidence. Then they choose to do so in a rule of law! In order to hold people for a six-month administrative term, subsequently reviewed by an administrative judge rather than by a criminal court. It protects society. It's working. What's the Minister saying here now? That Israel is not a democracy? It works; learn from it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u425	I have indicated how we, as a government, intend to complete this. That is in conjunction with an area ban, which I can impose as a minister once the law has been accepted by the Chamber and that is also the case in the First Chamber, linked to an anklet so that the person concerned can be controlled. Mr Klein asked whether there would be the same problem in the Netherlands as in Molenbeek. I note that Dutch policy generally prevents us from recognizing this kind of problem. This is due, among other things, to the broad commitment in the area of the neighbourhood approach, both by the municipalities as well as by the police and other organisations in our country. Several members of the Chamber have asked about the district agents. I have had many exchanges of views with the Chamber on this matter. The starting point is that there's supposed to be plenty of neighborhood agents. As of 1 July 2015, 96% of the formation was occupied. I have indicated in the recent general consultation that this is constantly being looked at. In response to Mr Van der Staaij's motion, the mayors have once again been reminded that they too have a responsibility to ensure that enough district agents are deployed where necessary. Mr Roemer of the Socialist Party asked about the distribution of the number of support points for the social intervention teams. That number has not been reduced, as Mr Roemer assumed. As he will understand, I cannot give any information on how this is organised. However, an adequate organisation has been set up to respond to terrorist threats in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u426	I understand the latter, but we're getting signals that it happened. I would appreciate it if the Minister himself had one more question, because I think the information is actually different. But I understand the sensitivity. Let's talk to the district cops. What kind of answer is that from the Minister? Almost all the mayors of the big cities, the police unions, and about the entire Chamber, are very concerned about the fact that district agents are no longer able to do their job. In many cases, they no longer belong to that 80% district work, because they are used for other things. There is a long-standing motion, adopted by a majority in the Chamber, which states that sufficient money must be available at least in the spring note. And now there's a minister here who's trivializing all of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u427	No, that's two different things. The system works as follows, but Mr Roemer knows it. The choice of capacity in a district, city or region is not up to the minister, but to the so-called regional mayor and the local triangle. It determines what capacity is deployed and how district agents are deployed. I need to make sure there's enough formation to actually deploy the district agents. That is the case, because 96% is fulfilled. The last 4% depends on the impact of the personnel reorganisation. I have often discussed this with the Chamber and with Mr Roemer's colleagues. Mr Van der Staaij rightly said: wait a minute, the Minister only looks at the formation and the commitment per region, but I am also concerned about the cities. How is it organized there now? I said that I would discuss this issue with the local triangle. I've done a lot of that, too. I'll keep doing that. I shall, of course, inform the Chamber of the outcome of this. This concerns Mr Van der Staaij's motion. Then the finances. We have discussed this very extensively with the Chamber, firstly in the context of the budgetary treatment of my ministry for 2016 and subsequent years. In this context, there are a number of motions for resolutions, both in the Second and in the Upper Chambers. One of these motions states that it is necessary to look carefully at what is needed for the police to be able to meet all the requirements. I carried out that motion, in good agreement with the Minister of Finance, by informing the Chamber that we would conduct an investigation into it. I recently sent that investigation and its results to the Chamber. That investigation is the basis for the discussions I have with the Minister of Finance on this subject. I cannot go into that now, however much the Chamber wants it to. This issue will be taken into account in the ordinary process towards the Spring Note and, where necessary, towards the Million Note and the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u428	We have received signals from all sides, whether they be mayors, the corps leadership, the trade unions or the agents themselves, in all conversations, but we have also done a lot of research as SP on the fact that in many cases district agents do not come to their work. The agreement that the neighborhoods are populated by enough district agents who really know the neighborhoods cannot be kept. Doesn't the Minister hear those signals or does he not want to hear them? In fact, he sends the Chamber with a blink of an eye with the remark that the percentages are reasonable, that only 4% is not reached and that the rest is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u429	I didn't say that. The Chamber has asked a specific question. I have a specific need to know what the situation is, also as a result of the review. I also said at the time that it was obvious, given the three-year re-examination, that the reorganisation was also agreed with the Chamber, and the additional investment in it, the second tranche of 230 million, to see whether the efficiency savings already made for the organisation could be achieved. That's what we've been investigating. I'm not trivializing any of the remarks made by anyone. That's exactly why I had that investigation done. I then presented that neatly to the Chamber. I had it validated, too. That is the basis for the discussions I have with the Minister of Finance. The motion before us in that context, I am carrying out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u430	Meanwhile, the Minister will put it on the long track by saying that we are going to discuss it in the 2017 budget. Then we're talking about a year later that there might be extra money. In the meantime, the stories are well known. Last week there was a reportage at Nieuwsuur about a district agent who reported, not getting to his job. If we give up the role of these district agents, that they are the eyes and ears of society in the neighbourhood, that they are crucial for prevention and for signaling radicalisation, then we don't have that time, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u431	I also wrote in the letter I sent on this subject that there are two moments when we can have the debate on this, namely in the preparation of the Spring Paper and in the framework of the Millions Note. Both are moments when I can have this debate with the Chamber, but now I can't, because I really think I should be able to have those conversations in the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u432	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u433	Then I assume that the urgency of the report will be translated into the Spring Paper and that this will not only come back to the 2017 budget, because that is really too long-term. It is now about putting these district agents in a position as the eyes and ears of society in the short term, that they are able to spend the time they need there, so that we can really do something with those district agents very quickly to prevent that radicalisation and a possible threat of an attack.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u434	Those are two different figures, let me say to Mr Segers. We've had a lot of discussion about the neighborhood agents. The capacity, the formation is 96% available. The rest, increasing to 100%, depends on the implementation of the personnel reorganisation. So that formation is there. That's not what the whole discussion we're having is getting rid of. We have 49,500 police officers, and there's the formation for the neighborhood agents in there, too. Another question is the question of longer-term financing. That is a debate I am having and that is what capacity is a part of in general terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u435	The new fact is that last week we saw the letter of fire from the regional mayors, who also say to the permanent committee of security and justice: without these additional investments, we are not going to get those district agents together. Does the Minister recognize that signal? And does the extra investment in the police that we can already expect from the spring note mean that that concern of the regional mayors will be taken away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u436	Of course I know that signal. That also came to me by letter. I can't confirm right now that I can take care away. That's part of the conversations I'm having right now in connection with the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u437	Is it the Minister's intention to make such agreements with the regional mayors in such a way that what was not only in a motion is fulfilled, but even in an amendment, so simply a legislative text, namely: make sure that the one district agent in the 5 000 inhabitants can get there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u438	At the level of the regions, this agreement is simply met, even after the reorganisation of the workforce. Mr Van der Staaij pointed out that the idea behind this legislative text was that this objective would also be achieved in the municipalities. I have promised Mr Van der Staaij that I will discuss this with the mayors. I would like to remind him that it is ultimately up to the mayors and the regions, the local triangle, to decide how to use the local formation. I can never take full responsibility for the local formation from the mayors. That is not the intention, because that is not the way the law is set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u439	I would like to know from the Minister how much longer he thinks he needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u440	I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. I have four or five more questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u441	I see Mr Pechtold with a few articles for the interrupting microphone. Does your question relate to this point? Otherwise, I would suggest that the Minister finishes his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u442	I agree with you, but this was the police, and I'm assuming you're gonna see the police, too, or are you gonna see the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u443	I didn't have any questions about the military. That's what the Prime Minister talked about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u444	The Prime Minister said something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u445	No, he referred it to the Minister of Security and Justice when I asked questions about Schiphol this summer. Then the Prime Minister said, "I don't have that on my retina." I'd like to give the Minister a hand. Among other things, the director of Schiphol, Mr Nijhuis, has indicated that he expects problems this summer and queues for the military, so just a capacity shortage. Then a spokesperson from Schiphol said at RTV Noord: we are currently struggling with our manpower. I have just asked a question about this and I repeat it to the Minister of Security and Justice: what is the story where and what can we expect from the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u446	I think it is true that on 14 March the Minister of Defence, which is to say very recently, answered Parliamentary questions on this matter from Mr De Roon of the PVV Group. That reply, as the Prime Minister said, shows that there is certainly pressure on the capacity of the Royal Marechaussee, both through migration and terrorism. Moreover, the Prime Minister has rightly indicated that there has also been investment in the Royal Marechaussee. A number of platoons will be added to the monitoring and security system, thus releasing other capacity. But it is true that also because of the increase in the number of passengers at Schiphol Airport, the distribution of capacity is a daily topic of conversation between the Royal Marechaussee and Schiphol Airport. It ensures that the priorities are laid down and the commitment is made in coordination with Schiphol. However, it is certainly a matter of concern, as the Prime Minister has also pointed out, because of this combination of factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u447	Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u448	I find that a bit difficult, because we have had to take district agents off the streets before to be able to use marechaussee, as is visible to the Chamber Building. In early spring Schiphol itself and then a spokesperson said that it would be crowded. The Secretary of State is now reporting that as well. It's March now. I want to know from the Minister, otherwise he can also turn to the Chamber with that question, what is needed to ensure that we are not only able to deal with the queues at Schiphol this summer, but also have a safe situation because of a sufficient marechaussee. What's it gonna take? Or does the Minister only have concerns, because then I want to know how he takes those concerns away from us and from society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u449	It is a bit difficult to answer that question, because, as Mr Pechtold knows, the police are not my responsibility. I do know that in the context of the additional investments made in the Royal Marechaussee, additional platons will be added next year. They will ensure the availability of capacity to deploy in other areas. However, this does not detract from the fact that the Minister of Defence has already informed the Chamber that it is certainly tight and that we need to look carefully at the extra effort that is needed in the summer. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u450	Mr. Pechtold, would you...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u451	I just want this in writing with the rest of you. Because I just want to know whether we can manage before the summer at Schiphol Airport, whether or not there will be capacity problems, and whether we can do something about it as a Chamber to prevent these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u452	Is it possible to comment on this in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u453	Yes, Mr President, I will ask the Secretary of Defense to make the information available to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u454	Then I suggest you move on and finish up as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u455	I come to the legislative proposals. I can be very brief about that. The legislative proposals under my responsibility are all on schedule. The legislative proposal for explosives precursors is important in this respect. This is a complicated legislative proposal, because it seeks not only to make the products subject to authorisation, but also, above all, to make materials subject to authorisation that are also used in everyday use. That's what makes it complicated. I expect to be able to come to the Chamber this week with the note on the report on that bill. Otherwise, I expect to send all the legislative proposals to the Chamber in the course of next week, so that they can be dealt with by the Chamber in the short term, hopefully before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u456	Thank you. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u457	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for the question I have asked, which I would like to answer. But not without reminding me that last week's attacks in Brussels were, of course, horrible, cruel and meant apocalyptic. Colleagues have already said it, and I repeat it here as Foreign Minister and once again express my condolences to the families of the dead, the injured and their relatives, as with the victims in Pakistan, Bamako and Paris, Christians and Muslims, French, Malians and Pakistani, and, of course, the families of the three deadly Dutch victims. From the beginning that became known that these three Dutch were missing, there has been contact with their families, both by telephone and in person. On the night of Thursday on Friday, the Belgian authorities announced that three Dutch had been identified. The State Department immediately informed the families. The families of the deceased were received by the Dutch ambassador in Brussels on Friday. Apart from these efforts, Tuesday 22 March will and will remain a black page in history for the Netherlands, especially for these Dutch. We stand side by side with our neighbors, with the Belgians. We must maintain our unity and condemn and tackle terrorism in solidarity. We know that terrorists want to create fear. This means that we should not turn each other against each other, Muslims against non-Muslims, but that we should defend our values. I do not think that at the end of this evening anyone is waiting for an extensive discourse from the Foreign Minister. Above all, I should like to say that international cooperation must be better and more effective on all fronts. The Prime Minister and the Minister of V and J discussed this extensively. This is also my commitment at the European Council of Foreign and European Affairs Ministers, in the global coalition against terrorist finance, and of course in all the bilateral contacts we have, including with Turkey. I was specifically asked about the situation in Pakistan. Another low point this week was the bombing in a park in the Pakistani city of Lahore last Sunday, where Christians were gathered during Easter days. A suicide bomber blew himself up between parked cars at a park not far from a children's playground. There are also many children and women among the victims. More than 300 people have been injured. Responsibility for the attack has been claimed by the extremist group Jamaat-ul-Ahrar, which is associated with the Taliban of Pakistan. In fact, Pakistan has been affected by many terrorist attacks in the last year, many of which have also been victimized by Muslims. That is why the European Union is also talking directly with Pakistan about a date for dialogue and agreement on counter-terrorism. The terrible attack on the group of Christians in Lahore will certainly be mentioned, I say to Mr Van der Staaij. In the meantime, we have also condemned this attack. The European Union has also condemned them. Following the attack, Pakistan has been heavily involved in a paramilitary operation in which more than 5,000 people were arrested. According to the Minister of Justice of the province of Punjab, 216 of them are still in prison. In the dialogue with Pakistan, therefore, we must encourage the country to take preventive measures in addition to repressive measures and to find the right balance. On the point of the Ankara Embassy, the Minister of V and J explained exactly how everything works. I have little to add to that. The Prime Minister said: let us take this together, learn lessons, protocol tighter and improve agreements with Turkey. That's what we're doing. Last week, before this debate from Jakarta, I had contact with Turkey's Foreign Minister to remind him of our concerns regarding the precise information we received on that 14th. As Foreign Minister, I would like to say that, as of today, all new notes will be translated by definition and submitted to the department heads and the post office to assess whether action is required. In doing so, I have answered the questions put to me by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u458	Could the Foreign Minister tell me again what happened on that 14th July under the responsibility of the Foreign Minister? Did the Turks contact the post office? Was the post office present at the time? According to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, did the protocol, which was not written at the time, appear to have been adopted orally?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u459	Yes. As Foreign Minister, I am, of course, responsible for the Embassy as a whole. The portal is actually just an electronic sign, like you used to have trays in which the State Department did his notes. That's what agreements were made in the Ministry. The KLPD looks at the messages that matter to him. The Minister of Security and Justice has explained exactly how it went on the 14th and the 15th, so that can no longer be verified whether that KLPD liaison has read it. That is why I said that it didn't matter, because we know that this man wasn't registered and contacted the Belgians the next day. We knew that was the experience of eviction that contact is always made by telephone. Such a portal is not used for urgent messages to which you should have responded within 26 minutes, because for that such a portal is not meant at all. It was a reason for me to do two things. Firstly, in contact with Turkey's Foreign Minister, I said that this type of agreement is not working properly and that the Minister for Security and Justice continues to do so. Secondly, without saying that something went wrong or did not go according to protocol, I said that it was a lesson learned and that I want everything that comes out of that portal to be translated directly and given to the post office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u460	My question hasn't been answered yet. Was the post office there at the time? Has there been a call from the Turks, as was the experience with the post office? What is there to reconstruct? Normally, that portal was read twice a day. Now it hasn't been read at all. Has it even been read after that? Is that still reconstructing? What does the Minister know about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u461	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is actually against the absolute logic because of the urgency and all the examples up to that moment. That's bizarre, at least, when 26 minutes later a plane takes off. In the diplomatic movement between the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, which are in fact a door for their police services, it is perfectly normal for that to happen. So that didn't happen. For this reason, I believe that the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Security and Justice have rightly said that this should be dealt with differently with Turkey. I said that directly to the Foreign Minister last Thursday. Yes, the chief the poste was present, but the logic there is not that all these portals are read. They're about all kinds of things: about the national year day, about diplomatic invitations to go out for dinner and stuff. It is not or very little about the issues we are talking about. That is why it is rightly pointed out that this information came without context and without urgency. The post office was there. We, too, have learned lessons. I believe that the ambassador should now take responsibility for everything being translated and distributed centrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u462	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u463	Normally, that portal is opened twice a day. What's the reason it's not open that day? When was it even opened?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u464	That can't be traced anymore. You can't see in the system if it's open. That's not how the system works. You can't see the word "urgent" until it's open. If it had been opened, it would be very unlikely that that would have had any other outcome, compared to the day after that when we heard it from the Belgians, because this gentleman had not been spotted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u465	I would like to thank the Secretary of State... Mr Zijlstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u466	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order, given the course of the debate. We'll get a second term. I propose that we apologize to the Foreign Minister for that second term, if his colleagues share that, in order to prevent him from being present in this Chamber for a very long time without having to answer many questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u467	I don't see any protests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u468	It is not for me to support this great support from one of the coalition groups and from all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-28.u469	I would point out that it is not a problem that next time only the Prime Minister and the Minister of Security and Justice are present. This brings us to the end of the first term of office of the government. A second deadline will be planned after the replies to the remaining questions. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Security and Justice, the Foreign Minister, the supporting officials, the MPs and the people who have followed this debate in one way or another.
