ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport to the First Chamber. I would also like to welcome the many interested parties who, with their presence, show the significance of this debate to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's a beautiful day today. Ten years ago, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was established. Today is a beautiful day, because we are allowed to decide on the law that introduces that treaty. But we are not there yet, because there will also be a General Measure of Governance, so that the final ratification will only take place in 2017. The members of the CDA Group consider it important that the General Measure of Governance is very well consulted with the field. I always yell, "from, before, and through." This means the disabled, the disabled and the disabled. That AMvB comes into being with them. I would like to say, at the beginning of my speech, that the members of the CDA Group in this House will vote for the law explicitly. We do that just like our colleagues across the street did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u3	It might be a little smooth, but I got a little confused. We should not want that in this debate, especially since it is such a beautiful day as Mrs Oomen says. The ratification will enter into force today and not until the AMvB enters into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u4	No, in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u5	Yes, but the approval law is about ratification, isn't it? The AMvB isn't about ratification, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u6	No no, the AMvB is about the execution. The motto of the CDA is: every human being is unique and every human being should not only be valued and respected in a civilized society, but should also have every opportunity to participate fully in their own capacity. For years, we have established that we must move towards an inclusive society. In a discussion like today, I wonder if that really works. Will this not be possible if we do not first become a little more efficient and consistent in adjusting the requirements for public transport, public buildings or the way in which transport or buildings are organised? By the way, public transport is still an example that very often shows me that things really have to be different. I wear high heels often because I'm small. If I have to be very careful not to get between the platform and the train access, how does a mother or father do that with a pram, sometimes with a toddler on hand, let alone someone in a wheelchair or someone who is blind? Thinking and immediately removing barriers is inclusive thinking. That is bad, therefore, barriers, not just for people with disabilities. Everyone can and will benefit from it. I come to the debate in the House of Representatives and also to the comments in the opinion of the Council of State, wondering whether the ratification of this Treaty should also adapt all provisions and really be 100% appropriate for any restriction. That was a very difficult discussion. I understand the concerns across the street. The original draft law was not entirely clear on that point either. The present Convention and the law implementing the Convention left much room for manoeuvre. Discrimination within the meaning of the Convention and the Implementing Law could also include non-application of reasonable adjustments in a specific case. What is such a reasonable adjustment and whether such a provision can be interpreted by the court as binding was, in my opinion, too open and could also lead to great surprises. I am pleased that the text which, following this extensive debate in the House of Representatives, has also been included in this debate by my colleague Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Keijzer, and which has made good arrangements in the Chamber today, offers more clarity and that further rules are included in an AMvB on the concept of "general accessibility" and the interpretation of the timetable. I am pleased to note that when I review the proposal before us and put it in addition to the original text, the changes will provide more and better solutions to the problems facing people with disabilities. Whether it is the blind guide dog, the help in the polling room or a wider inclusion agenda for the municipalities, including the Participation Act, these are good examples of a good discussion across the street. The commitment to convert the exception that was made for the Caribbean Netherlands and to see if, in accordance with a roadmap, you can take the situation of people with disabilities who live there, is also a good thing. I would therefore like to conclude with the new text for the preamble that has been added on the other side. Every human being must be able to live his or her own life in accordance with his or her possibilities and not with a general standard. The fact that someone is dependent on support should not mean that someone else fills out what someone wants. Self-direction extends to all areas of life, social roles and relationships that concern a person. Dignity must be the starting point for all policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. Today we can finally talk about the adoption and implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In the First Chamber we examine the legality, enforcement and feasibility of legislative proposals. Of course, the underlying values of the standard to which we test also play a role in this assessment. Because we humans tend to reason mainly from our own situation, according to political philosopher John Rawls it is necessary to assume a situation where we do not know who or what we are. In this imaginary situation we find ourselves under the famous veil of ignorance. We do not know whether we are poor or rich, young or old, smart or stupid, sick or healthy, man or woman, or either, whether or not we have a physical or intellectual disability, illness or chronic illness. When you think behind the veil of ignorance about what you want society to look like, my group's preference is for an inclusive society based on freedom and space for everyone to develop. This includes the standard of accessibility. Accessibility is then the starting point, inaccessibility is the exception. Adaptations to provide accessibility to everyone are not an extra service, but a self-evident fact in an inclusive society. As the Secretary of State himself wrote in the explanatory statement, people themselves indicate that a restriction becomes an obstacle only when they are not taken into account or because they are not taken into account. My group welcomes the ratification of the Treaty, but there are still a number of important points on D66. The Secretary of State states in the explanatory statement that the ambition is to continue to make progress. This is at odds with the government's refusal so far to sign and ratify the optional protocol and with the proposed plan of action. Both aren't exactly overwhelmed by ambition. The optional protocol allows individual stakeholders to lodge a complaint with the UN Independent Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities after national remedies have been exhausted. Failure to sign and ratify the optional protocol is not a good signal to the more than 2 million people in the Netherlands with restrictions. All client organisations advocate the signing and ratification of the optional protocol. The Coalition for Inclusion, the House of Representatives and the Eerste Kamer have also drawn attention to the signing and ratification. The government has indicated that it has not yet signed the optional protocol because it has not yet ratified the optional protocol of the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. In countries such as France, Italy, Luxembourg, Finland, Belgium, Portugal, Spain, Slovakia, Mali and the Maldives, people can now defend their own economic, social and cultural rights through the individual right to complain to the UN Committee on ESC Rights. In the Netherlands, the government has been studying for years the consequences of ratification of the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Earlier in this House, the Strike motion was adopted, to be precise, on 18 March 2014, calling on the Dutch Government to speed up the decision to ratify the optional protocol to the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. We've been two years. Can the Secretary of State state state what the reasons are that both protocols have not yet been signed? How long will it take to investigate the consequences of the ratification of both protocols? My group is pleased to receive an explanation from the Secretary of State with a specific timeline for the aforementioned investigations and positions. I would add that we would like a concrete answer with a concrete timetable. The mere fact that the position will be determined is no longer satisfactory, as it was, of course, at all. I'm getting to the plan of action. The plan of action opens with a vision. This is a vision of an inclusive society, in which everyone, of course, can participate fully, including those with disabilities. Important concepts include non-discrimination, participation, equal opportunities, accessibility and respect for inherent dignity and personal autonomy. Of course, my group welcomes this view. But should not a plan of approach be described in concrete terms? A motion was also adopted in the House of Representatives in which the government was asked to include concrete objectives and a timetable in the plan of action and also to draw up a roadmap and send the renewed plan to the Chambers. In other words, how is the Secretary of State going to regulate matters so that people can actually organise their lives as they wish? In our neighbouring countries, for example in Germany and Finland, very specific programmes have been drawn up with central themes and concrete measures to achieve the objectives set. What is our government going to do in concrete terms? Is the government prepared, for example, to define a process of implementation with specific objectives, set deadlines and clarity on how it intends to involve the field? Let me give you an example: not all polling stations in the Netherlands appear to be physically accessible to people with rollators, wheelchairs or scooters. A concrete goal to put into the plan of action would be: 100% of the polling stations accessible to all Dutch people. Let me give another example: assistance dogs are still regularly refused, including in government buildings. In the context of 'good example does follow well', it seems to me only natural that the government should start by making its buildings and services accessible in a broad sense. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. After the Treaty has been ratified, governments are responsible for its implementation. Municipalities also have an important role to play in this process, especially now that they have been given more tasks and responsibilities that affect adults and young people with disabilities, illness or chronic illness. The plan of action makes it clear that cultural change and innovation must be achieved at local level in particular. The government indicates that the agenda setting for the implementation of the Treaty will be done bottom-up. My group considers it very important that experience experts and direct stakeholders play an important role in this, but it is not yet sufficiently clear to us how this participation will be shaped in such a way that people can actually participate and it is not a shift of responsibilities. In the reply we can read that there is an administrative consultation at national level and that it is up to the municipalities to formulate and implement local policies aimed at an inclusive society. The Van der Staaij/Bergkamp amendment calls on the municipalities to come up with a common plan for a local inclusion agenda. At both levels, attention is paid to the participation of experience experts. Public financiers of medical and scientific research, such as NWO and ZonMw, have been asking researchers for several years to identify how and on what scale of participation patients and subjects are involved in the proposed scientific study. The CBO Handbook on Patient/Customer Participation distinguishes between five steps on the ladder: informing, consulting, advising, partnership and direction of the patient. This ladder is a useful tool in selecting the appropriate forms of patient and client participation and can provide insight into the desired forms of participation. Is the Secretary of State aware of this ladder as it is used in scientific research? Would it be helpful if the plan of action concretely indicated what forms and ladders of participation the government is thinking? Does the Secretary of State have other frameworks in mind, such as instruments such as municipalities, not appear to be taking steps? I'd like to hear a response. The UN Convention will not apply in the Caribbean Netherlands for the time being. The explanatory memorandum from 2013-2014 indicates that an investigation is being carried out on behalf of the Government on the possibility of introducing the Convention into the BES Islands. My group would like to hear the state of this investigation. Does the Secretary of State have a substantiated picture of the position of people with disabilities in the BES islands? My group would like to see the government also show ambition in the implementation of the Caribbean Netherlands Convention and sit down with stakeholders and experience experts for a plan of action for the BES Islands. Is there a movement of people with disabilities in the BES Islands? If not, could the government play a facilitating or stimulating role in this so that people can organise themselves? Finally: a disability can be physical, but also spiritual, intellectual or otherwise. My group would like to stress that the UN Convention is about people with the full breadth of restrictions. We would like to call on the Secretary of State to consider not only the removal of physical inaccessibility, but also the people with "invisible" limitations, such as hearing impairment, language development disorders and psychiatric disorders in the planning and implementation. Behind the veil of ignorance, it is absolutely natural for my group to embrace the treaty and the protocol and for the government to show haste and ambition in ratifying the optional protocol and the plan of action. I look forward to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. The Convention on Persons with Disabilities was adopted by the United Nations on 13 December 2006. It's already been memorized. The Netherlands signed it on 30 March 2007. That was nice and smooth, but that was all. It is not until nine years later that we are talking about ratification and implementation. My group believes that, to be fair, this may also be said on a beautiful day which is embarrassing and incomprehensible. Worldwide, 151 countries were already in front of us, 25 of them from the European Union and, among other things, almost all countries in South America, Asia and a large part of Africa. In 2010, the European Union as a whole also joined the Convention, signing 85 countries, including 21 members of the Union, including the optional protocol, but later on more. Surely that raises the question of why it took so long. The reason is that the government wants to examine the legal and economic consequences first. Indeed, research is always useful. The legal report from 2012 and the economic report from 2013 not only give some insight, but also make it clear that it is not so world-shattering. There's no reason to be so far behind the rest of the world. There is no reason to want to be in line with Libya, Belarus and the Central African Republic. How does the government look back on that? Agreed, with the knowledge of today, but couldn't it have been much faster and should have been if we wanted to take ideas like participation and inclusiveness seriously? Especially since the Convention does not create new rights, but develops the existing Convention on Human Rights. Does the government agree with my group that this has allowed people with disabilities to dangle unnecessarily long periods of time? We are not so much concerned with regret about the delay as with the question of how the government is going to deal with everything quickly. Can the government make the situation concrete today with the plan of action? What flying start has been made by now? I can only assume that the government has not really been on its hands for nine years, but is now very clearly aware of how these principles can be implemented. It must become normal that we set up our world in a way that everyone can participate and not that we first realize the "normal" organization and then start wondering if we should come up with "modifications." Design for all as a starting point. Of course, there is understanding of the borders and the possibilities. Not all existing buildings can easily be made accessible. Sometimes inclusivity means one less space than the other. So we are not talking about rigid arrangements, but about self-evident space for people who all have different possibilities and different limitations. It's all about action now. If the Chamber is to review this law on feasibility, my group is particularly concerned about the will to implement it. How does the government ensure that the treaty does not disappear again in a drawer, with only one additional stamp of approval? In this debate, I will not go into the further practical considerations and effects. That debate belongs more to the House of Representatives, and has been well conducted there. If there are any questions about that, I will listen to the answer with great interest. I would like to address some of the issues relating to the scope. The first concerns the kingdom-wide operation of the law on approval. We are talking here about a state law, which affects the whole of the Kingdom. Nevertheless, the government writes in the reply that Curaçao, Aruba and St.Maarten are considering the co-existence of that treaty. How does that work? Do we have a national law that only applies in the country of the Netherlands? What does the Kingdom Government do to ensure that the treaty is applied throughout the Kingdom? What discussions have been held between the four governments? What's the delay here again? But perhaps even more problematic, at least when it comes to the responsibility of this house, is that the law will only apply to the European Netherlands. The College of Human Rights has rightly criticized this. In principle, my group also believes that it is not possible to defend the exclusion of people with disabilities living on Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius or Saba from the functioning of this Convention. The College rightly wonders whether the Constitution is correct, because according to the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands, regulations can be chosen not to apply to the Caribbean Netherlands if there are circumstances in which the islands differ substantially from the Netherlands. But is that the case here? In a legal sense, I certainly don't. The Equal Treatment Act, which is not yet in force, is mentioned, but it is a very poor soil. To the extent that there are practical obstacles, there is all the more reason to catch up as soon as possible. I understand that the examination of the possibilities for implementation will be completed in July of this year, but of course this could have been done earlier and should have been done sooner. We see it as a moral responsibility to guarantee the rights of people with disabilities in the Caribbean Netherlands, not only morally but also constitutionally. I would like to hear from the government in concrete terms what the timetable will be for co-financing of the Convention and for implementation. I am considering tabling a motion on that point, because this is a very serious point for us. There are also questions about the interpretative statements made by the government on about eight points. At the heart of the question is this: what exactly does the government have to do with these statements? For it seems almost like an attempt to restrict the strength of the Treaty on a number of points, by a disguised reservation, as the Council of State points out. Is that the point? Is it right, then, to make these reservations and thereby to make a factual distinction between people with and people without restrictions? I would like to receive a specific explanation of the interpretative explanations in Article 10 on unborn life, Article 23 on family foundation and Article 25 on fertility techniques. I would like to return to the optional protocol of the Convention. That makes room for individual complaint rights. Half of all countries in the world have signed it and have ratified it in a number of cases. In 2014, this Chamber, by a large majority, already called on the government to move on to ratification. At that time, the Minister promised to inform the Senate about the timetable in which the proposals for ratification will be presented to Parliament. The House of Representatives did the same in the proceedings of the Convention. However, two years after that motion and that commitment, the government does not go beyond saying in the reply that the optional protocol is being considered in conjunction with the protocols on individual complaint law to the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Not a word about why that's taking so long. That's why we're impatiently asking why the government's stalling. What's she afraid of? Is it fear that citizens can now actually invoke the rights of these treaties? Can the Government explain the difference which has led to the acceptance by other treaties of the individual right of complaint, as the College of Human Rights points out, namely the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Convention on Women, and the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Disappearances? What makes this specific optional protocol so different? Why is the link to these two conventions so important to the government? I would very much like to get an enlightening answer from the government, because frankly it seems like an old-fashioned game of stalling, which is simply contrary to the spirit of the treaty. I would like to take action, because the majority of both chambers have now declared that this optional protocol should simply enter into force. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities deserves to be approved and implemented, not today, which it deserves for a very long time. It must now really go beyond lip service to participation and inclusiveness. After nine years of playing thumbs, it's time for them to get to work. Then the government can show that it is serious. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. Somewhere I read: "A disability is nothing more than a constant confrontation with a society that is not designed for you." That is why the SGP is pleased that the present UN Convention will enter into full force in the foreseeable future. Because with this, people with disabilities get a positive push in the back and they no longer all have to fight individually for equal treatment. General accessibility will become normal rather than an exception. This will also strengthen our society as a whole. Because a community that doesn't park disability and imperfection out of the picture, but deals with it seriously, makes itself more powerful and resilient. Much discussion has already taken place in the Lower House, so I think it is particularly important to review the changes in relation to the original legislative proposal. The most important change concerns, as far as I am concerned, the Otwin van Dijk and others amendment. (Roompiece 33990 No. 56), in conjunction with the sub-amendment tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Keijzer (Room 33990 No. 57), which came under a lot of political pressure. The SGP considers the Van Dijk and others amendment. a significant improvement in the original proposal, as this usually means that people with disabilities will no longer have to ask for an adjustment in a specific case. However, Mr Van Dijk's proposed provision on general accessibility was so general that people with disabilities, businesses and public authorities did not receive the desired and necessary legal certainty that they deserve. That is why I have focused my questions in the report on the precise impact of the General Measure of Management, which Members Van der Staaij and Keijzer asked for with their sub-amendment. Unfortunately, I am not very enthusiastic about answering my questions. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will now be able to formulate more precisely. First of all, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can describe more precisely what he means by the terms in the explanatory memorandum to the Van Dijk and others amendment, such as a gradual shift to general accessibility, simple provisions and the proportionality of the tax. And what does he mean by the "reasonability and fairness" of that tax? In what way will he follow the standards set out in Article 2 of the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of disability or chronic illness? In the Van der Staaij/Keijzer sub-amendment, the applicants pointed out that, for reasons of legal certainty, they consider it important that the General Measure should include detailed rules for accessibility, which require specific types of measures in different areas. Can the government indicate how it intends to implement this in each of the different areas? The SGP raises the question of whether the government intends to maintain a different pace in different areas. I am thinking, for example, of public transport, on which we received a report yesterday as a Chamber. When should all this be accessible? When should other companies be fully accessible? When should websites be fully accessible? Another question is what different requirements and specific measures the government envisages for the different sectors. I would also like to ask the government how far it is now with the elaboration of the General Measure of Governance, so that we can be sure that both the legal standard, which follows from the Van Dijk amendment and its further development, can enter into force on 1 January 2017. Is the government prepared to send the advice of the Council of State and the government's further report to the First and Second Chambers at the same time as the General Measure of Management? Local authorities are rightly given an important role in the implementation of the UN Convention, because they have a broad responsibility for supporting adults and young people with disabilities, illness or chronic illness and for supporting work with disabilities. The Van der Staaij/Bergkamp amendment is in line with this by requiring municipalities to periodically draw up a plan in which they indicate how they intend to implement the UN Convention in order to contribute to an inclusive society. The SGP agrees with the Secretary of State that municipalities should be allowed to implement this in their own way, taking into account local needs and needs. However, it would be a pity if every municipality had to reinvent the wheel. That is why I ask whether the government is willing to discuss with the VNG whether, together with the Platform Inclusion, it can support municipalities, for example with a model plan and by centrally collecting and sharing good practices. The SGP finds it sad that the government has made an interpretative statement to Article 10, which deals with the right to life. The UN Conventions on the Rights of the Child and on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities are, after all, also about unborn life. A termination of pregnancy due to a feared disability is therefore, according to the SGP, unacceptable discrimination against disabled life. This is not only the opinion of the SGP, but also that of, for example, the Committee of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This committee concluded in its reports on Austrian and Spanish legislation that no distinction should be made in the termination of a disability-based pregnancy. How does the Secretary of State react to that? Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine whether, in the light of these conventions and the application given to them in other countries, there is a need to strengthen policy on abortion for reasons of disability? Finally, I am pleased that the government wants to work vigorously on the obligation for international cooperation, Article 32, and the related motion of the Lower House Groups of the Christian Union and the SGP on foreign policy inclusion. However, I regret that protection of the rights of people with disabilities is not one of the human rights priorities as formulated in the 2013 Respect and Justice Policy Paper. Why not? Is the commitment to people with disabilities less necessary than the commitment to equal rights for, for example, gays, transgenders and bisexuals? Do disabled people run at lower thresholds? Are they less often abused? All I have to do is look at West Africa to show the contrary. There, children with disabilities have structural problems of systematic discrimination and abuse. For example, children with disabilities are seriously neglected, abused or even murdered in Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania. Human Rights Watch has presented shocking reports on violence against disabled people in Russian state institutions. Or look a little closer to home and look at the situation of adults and children with disabilities in Moldova. Most of them face daily social, medical and political barriers, are abused and discriminated against. And then we have not even discussed the situation in India, where disabled people are looked at with their necks and often locked up. Is the government prepared to make equal rights for disabled people a priority within human rights policy? The ratification of this Treaty offers an excellent opportunity for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is rightly seen as a major breakthrough. Worldwide, around 10% of the population suffers from disability or disability. Most of them are in what we call 'developing countries'. Although the cradle of equality is the western world, the experience of people with disabilities has also been that they are often not as equal in practice as others. It is interesting that Mrs Bredenoord cites the political philosopher John Rawls here. We could have an interesting political-ethical debate together, but I don't know if that's the whole point of this afternoon. However, I thought it was remarkable, because after John Rawls came Martha Nussbaum, who said that John Rawls in his contract theory did not have enough attention for people with disabilities. So it is necessary to revise that theory. As far as I am concerned, there is no straight line between John Rawls and this disability agreement. New, but in fact very old, ideas about justice were needed to make it clear that modern equality thinking quickly closes the circle around people who have something to offer each other in equal reciprocity. But what if you don't have something to offer someone else in equal reciprocity? The UN Treaty creates a different tone and is without doubt a global victory for those who count the value of life in every human being. The Christian vision of man then refers to the statement that man is created in the image of God and is therefore of value. It has been a while since the UN Convention was concluded. Almost ten years have passed since then, and that's a long time. Other countries preceded us. The United States is farther than Europe, apparently also because of war veterans returning to American society. We cannot entirely escape the impression that the Dutch Government wanted to study very carefully the possible consequences for the Netherlands and, in particular, the significance of the implementation of the standard of general accessibility of goods and services. The implementing law includes the amendment of the House of Representatives. It refers to "gradual care for general accessibility for people with disabilities," together with the clause "unless this is a proportionate burden for them." In this case, "him" is the one who has to ensure equal treatment. How did we understand that? I mean that "gradually" and that "unless." Does this fit in with the spirit of the treaty? Can the Secretary of State shed his light on this? The State is a party to this Convention and must choose an active position. This active attitude is a form of concern in itself, namely the care of institutions and conditions that benefit people with disabilities. There will be a Platform Inclusion and an implementation plan, but is that enough? And what, according to the Secretary of State, is really a priority? What should be tackled first? As far as my group is concerned, we have a commitment to honour in relation to people with disabilities. I remember very well the discussions we had in this house on the Participation Act and the abolition of the Wajong. A new idea of participation seemed to have been born in the Netherlands. It means that we don't look at what someone can't do anymore, but at what someone can. That should be the starting point for people to participate, but in practice this is not always enough to help people get to work. The government is even a bad example in this respect. I would like to hear a further reflection from the Secretary of State on this point. The Netherlands considered it necessary to make a number of "interpretative declarations" when ratifying the Convention; some colleagues have already indicated this. Interesting is the way this is done in article 10. It deals with the protection of what is now referred to in the text of the Treaty not as "a person," but as "a human being." This affects unborn life. After all, a human being does not have to be a person, but can also be a person who has not yet become a person. The Dutch Government states that the Dutch legislation, in this case the Refraction of Pregnancy Act, is a guiding factor in the interpretation of this article, and that is also in line with the intentions of the Convention. The point is, of course, that the government does not want to discuss the moment when we speak of a human being. My group believes that even if we were to use the viability as the starting point of a human being, as is the case in Article 82 of the Criminal Code, we would have to go back beyond the current 24-week limit. I should like to hear from the Secretary of State whether this treaty does not actually impose greater care on us in relation to the termination of pregnancy than we have in this country. In this context, I would also mention the handling of the tests to detect Down. The right to survive, which is expressly referred to in Article 10, is, of course, also a matter of disability after birth and requires special care of all persons with disabilities or disabilities, however serious they may be. That brings me back to the beginning. The Treaty is a global breakthrough and anchors a new way of thinking about people with disabilities or disabilities in legislation and social practices, in companies and institutions and in government. The Treaty and this law are, of course, only the beginning, but it is a sign of a common will to include people with disabilities. That is our common concern and responsibility. This is a way of thinking which my group wholeheartedly supports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u11	Mr President, senators, State Secretary and other listeners in the public gallery of this House. It has taken some time, but it really seems that the proposal for the National Law adopting the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was drawn up in New York on 13 December 2006, and the implementation of this Convention, will come to a successful conclusion today. That was the longest sentence of my speech. This is a milestone that many citizens and lobbyists have been looking forward to: a rich law with the aim of ratifying the UN Convention. It was time for everyone with disabilities to have equal opportunities and rights to participate in our society as a full citizen. Having a restriction presents a risk of delay. To convert this into at least an equivalent position, you need others. Creating this position requires much of the individual's own strength and an environment that supports the person concerned in the form of family, friends, caregiver, employer, aid dog and so on, but also a government that facilitates, stimulates and provides support in society. Anyway, I'm not telling you anything new, not even with the announcement that there's work to be done. The ratification of this treaty is nothing more than putting the word into practice. We are therefore grateful to the Secretary of State for taking this step, but like a number of other groups in this Chamber we wonder why this has taken so long. What happened in the meantime? A concrete plan of action is not yet in place and no concrete action is yet in sight. I would ask the Secretary of State to answer this question. The views are described, but how does this work for the citizen in question? We've got to get this stuff started. Many questions will still have to be answered. Is the citizen in question really going to have a full place in our society? How do the municipalities take their role? But also, for example, how are employers, social institutions and policy makers going to relate to the principles of the Treaty? In my speech, I focus on the practical impact of the Treaty on the understanding that what we agree here must also work in society. In addition, I will briefly consider the optional protocol. The ratification of the Convention requires a social movement that takes into account people with disabilities, a process of change, including, where necessary, reasonable adjustments in concrete personal situations. This implementation of the UN Convention cannot be separated from the decentralisation movement currently under way: more responsibility to citizens in different areas of life, with a supporting role for 384 municipalities. This movement requires the needs of citizens and their representatives. Let me give you an example from practice. I'm just gonna do that for a little while. Selim and Salma are angry, according to the Algemeen Dagblad of 31 March. Brother and sister have filed a complaint with the College of Human Rights, supported by the Contact Point Discrimination and the interest association Voorall. The reason for this complaint is HTM's refusal to allow both wheelchair users on its buses. It is an action that fits in with the spirit of the treaty we are discussing today. However, this action requires quite a bit of Selim and Salma, such as showing knowledge, communicative skills, strength and courage. They also received support from an advocacy organisation, but you must have it in your network. The question is why Selim and Salma have to fight their own battle to get into an HTM bus. HTM also has trams. I don't think electric wheelchairs fit in there. Do Selma and Selim have to work with HTM for a reasonable transport alternative for the tram? Why not have an accessibility standard for the DV? For citizens without wheels, standards have been devised. Is any public procurement now taking into account citizens with disabilities? What is the position of the Secretary of State in this regard from the point of view of his role as system manager? How does he assess whether the implementation of the UN Convention, for example in public transport, is going well? What are the assessment and review criteria for this implementation process? In the discussions on the participatory society, it is a lot about the vistas. The same applies to this UN convention. But citizens are people, with their daily challenges and concerns, who sometimes consume all their energy. That is especially true when you have a limitation. Sometimes that participation doesn't end up as much. The three ladies of the booklet "We Stand Up!', Those who have been to us in the First Chamber on coffee have once again given me a look at their daily concerns and, to put it bluntly, the extra costs, partly because of their own contribution, which they have to make in connection with their limitation. The lives of these ladies at the core indicate the tension felt by the SP regarding the ratification of the treaty, the tension between the intention and the practice in which people with disabilities find themselves. Let me look at the financial situation and the social positioning of citizens with disabilities. In the introduction to the report Poverty among people with disabilities, a 2013 report by Vilans, among others, the following is concluded: "Despite the good intentions of the UN Convention and the Wmo, the quality of life of people with disabilities seems to be increasingly under pressure due to money problems." I quote another report, now from the Nibud: Purchasing power changes for people with disabilities 2015-2016. It states that a single citizen in the assistance with additional care costs through the general provision of the municipality has an additional 7% decrease in purchasing power. The Secretary of State knows these figures all too well. Of course, the SP Group has a tendency to talk to him about this, but I think I know his answers and expect to hear nothing new on this subject, given the debate in the House of Representatives, unless the Secretary of State has another surprise for us. That's what we like to hear! Poverty leads to social exclusion. That is a movement that is opposed to the movement that our group has in mind. It is about inclusive society, including the income position of the people with disabilities. Will the income position of citizens with disabilities become a government-wide issue, for example when discussing the 2017 budget? What are the government's plans for this? Perhaps an adjustment of the own contributions of people with disabilities? I'd like to see the Secretary of State's answer. The Secretary of State writes in the explanatory statement on a plan of action, "in addition to the policies already implemented": "This plan of approach provides for consultation between all parties concerned on a structural basis" and "Thus, structural consultation initiates a social process that will contribute to greater consideration of people with disabilities." We have looked at the contours of this plan and left a kind of experience of: you put your hands in something, but you feel so little. The fraction of the SP would like to feel something, see something tangible. Fortunately, the Van Dijk/Voortman motion was adopted asking the government to include concrete objectives and a timetable in the plan of action, to include a roadmap and to send the renewed plan of action to the Chamber. The question to the Secretary of State is, of course,: how are we doing? How's it gonna be funded? The Group of the Party of European Socialists can assume that a longer period of support for this plan will be considered. The metaphor of a delta plan is perhaps a tool for the design of this plan, I say to the Secretary of State. Of course, it shouldn't be "ins Blaue hinein." That is why the SP Group has drawn up a number of agenda items for the plan. The first is: capacity for action, supporting decision-making and their recognition. The second is: independent living, participating in society and appropriate education. The third is: compulsion and urge, within the ggz settings. The fourth is: involvement and participation of experienced citizens and/or independent representatives of them in the municipalities, for example. A firm commitment by the Secretary of State on the assignment of the above points would be appreciated by the SP Group. This also applies, of course, to the answers to the questions that have been asked. The SP Group appreciates the State Secretary's commitment to ratifying this Treaty. In the House of Representatives there was talk of a figurehead with mandate who oversees the implementation. The Secretary of State did not take this initiative. Why not? Does the Secretary of State himself take such an active role in the roll-out of the Treaty? Does he stand with schwung in front of the troops? Personal involvement is needed, not only from the Secretary of State, but also from aldermen, the faces of advocacy organisations and example citizens with experience. The plan of approach provides for consultation on a structural basis between all parties: the polder consultation. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is always in favour of dialogue and dialogue, but occasionally the bat has to be in the cowboy, not in order to fight but in order to stimulate creativity. Contradictions make your plans sharper and increase engagement. I wonder how the Secretary of State will organise his social contradiction. He can expect us to help him, both nationally and locally. I would briefly like to dwell on the optional protocol. A lot has been said about it in the debate in the House of Representatives. Van Gerven's adopted motion calls for an early signature of the optional protocol by the government. The Secretary of State couldn't indicate a timeline yet. I have a simple question for the Secretary of State; life can sometimes be very simple. Will the Secretary of State sign the optional protocol for this government period? I like to hear a yes or a no. It can't be any simpler. I'll come to a conclusion. Views, beckoning perspectives, a dot on the horizon: the meaning of these concepts is probably known. It's about a future waiting for us. But now it's about people with disabilities in the here and now. Good things are happening and there is a lot of self-power, like Helma with her help dog, who is visiting again now. The fraction of the SP looks at the state law and its implementation with a supportive look. He's really gonna have to get there. However, there will also need to be a good plan of action. The position and involvement of the people with disabilities will have to be improved, preferably now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. This is an historic day for the Netherlands. What would be wonderful if, after ten years of preparation and discussion, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities would be ratified by the Netherlands here in the First Chamber. I deliberately say 'today' because we would be okay if all the people who are literally in our midst today to deal with the treaty would not have to wait another week for a final judgment of this Chamber, obviously after a good debate with the Secretary of State. I'm not gonna make a cliffhanger out of it: it's not gonna be on the PvdA Group. We will be delighted to give our support to the Convention and to the Implementing Act. The disability convention, as it was called in the corridors, is a human rights treaty. It explains already existing civil, political, social, economic and cultural rights developed to apply to people with disabilities and describes what is necessary to achieve those rights. The aim of the Convention is, according to Article 1, "to promote, protect and guarantee the full enjoyment of all persons with disabilities of all human rights and fundamental freedoms on an equal footing and also to promote respect for their inherent dignity." This makes the Treaty an important step in building an inclusive society and the emancipation of people with disabilities. There are millions of them in the Netherlands alone. The fact that they, like everyone else, can participate equally and fully in our society, as proud and free people, is at the heart of social democracy. In the Lower House there was a strong and sometimes even sharp debate on the core of the treaty and in particular on the implementing law, both among themselves and with the State Secretary. At the end of the day, it was fortunate to find each other there and the government in a common objective and implementation strategy. From this side of the Binnenhof, the positions on the other side were essentially not far apart. It shared the desire for a more inclusive society in which all people are given the space to develop and to give meaningful, appropriate meaning to their lives. The discussion was, if I understand correctly, about the best way to achieve that shared goal. In the end, consensus has been reached on this, which our group shares. The Van Dijk amendment c.s. in conjunction with the Van der Staaij/Keijzer sub-amendment, the test of criticism can well pass, both substantive and legal. However, our group urges the government to ratify quickly the optional protocol, which allows people to lodge a complaint directly with the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the event of non-compliance with the Convention after exhaustion of all national possibilities. In March 2014, this Chamber adopted the Strike motion, which had been co-signed by the PvdA Group. At that time, we felt that this optional protocol should be embraced by the Netherlands. We've been two years and nothing's happened. We ask the Secretary of State if he can tell us where this slowness is coming from. Why does the Dutch Government show such hesitation? Do I understand that this is linked to uncertainty as to what the signing of the optional protocol in the course of justice means? If that's the case, I don't quite get it. In the view of our group, there is no reason to doubt the value and strength of Dutch law or the law of the Netherlands. Signing the protocol will therefore not make much difference in practice, but the symbolic value is great. It shows that the Netherlands wants to be fully part of the international commitment to this treaty and everything related to it. And symbols matter, especially when it comes to the emancipation of groups of people. We do not believe in stacking motions, so the message we want to give to the cabinet today is clear: the Strike motion must be carried out. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. On the interpretative statements to the treaty I had a good discussion with representatives of the Alliance, consisting of Each, Per Balance, the Association LFB, the Coalition for Inclusion and the National Platform GGz. In the Alliance, the level of the number of interpretative statements made to the Treaty appears to be seen as belittle; an expression of the failure of the Dutch Government to fully endorse all the principles and elements of the Treaty. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State today. Can he take that feeling of displeasure away from the Alliance? It would be very unfortunate if, on this beautiful day, some of the people involved were left with the feeling that there are catchphrases in the interpretive statements. That is why I myself have studied the interpretative explanations very carefully each and every one of them. And I gotta tell you, I didn't find any catch. It may well be that eight interpretative statements by the Dutch side to a UN treaty are on the high side, but I understand all eight of them. It is mainly the expression of norms, values and ethical colours by the Netherlands of themes on which thinking in our country sometimes differs significantly from that in other states. My group fully endorses the conclusions reached by the government on these issues. As far as we are concerned, that does not imply any reserve for the Treaty. On the contrary. It is a question of protecting, sometimes, typically Dutch or North-West European achievements. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if he agrees with us. The Convention also invites the reflection of what constitutes an inclusive society. The Secretary of State rightly goes into this in detail in the explanatory memorandum. A society in which the value of every human being is seen and in which everyone can participate fully, is at the heart of the ideals of the PvdA and of this cabinet. The Secretary of State explains a relationship between that ideal and the general principles of the Treaty: non-discrimination, participation, equal opportunities, accessibility, respect for inherent dignity and personal autonomy. They are all important values, which should be taken for granted to every human being, too, or right, for people with disabilities. Everyone understands that the ratification of the Treaty has not been achieved in one stone in our country. Between dream and deed, laws may no longer stand in the way, but many more or less practical objections. I would like to go deeper into that. As far as we are concerned, this treaty is also a symbol of the renewal of the welfare state that has been initiated by this government. Not so long ago, it was good care for people with disabilities when they were admitted to appropriate institutions and spent their whole lives in isolation, together with other people with the same disability. In the care jargon, we call it lying on a bed. And above all, we should not see that transferable. Old photographs of National Association de Sunflower, of which I have been chairman for years, show how people with a physical limitation in squat white made beds were driven around on wheels by the Efteling or the Keukenhof. Gradually, the insight has emerged, not least through the efforts of the people concerned themselves, that this is not the best possible care, although done from the best of intentions. When healthy people regard their fellow people with disabilities primarily as an object of concern, they do not take them seriously as fellow citizens. People with intellectual disabilities are not happy when their lives are taken over by the rules and standards of others. People with mental disorders don't get over it when they're tucked away for a long time in the woods with hundreds of others who are confused or depressed. People in wheelchairs and people who are visually impaired or hearing impaired don't like having to ask for help all the time and say thank you. People with disabilities usually want the same thing as most other people: to make a home home, to have a partner and friends and to make a meaningful contribution to society through paid work or volunteering that suits you. It's nice when someone else takes care of you, but it's much more satisfying if you're allowed to take care of yourself. People with disabilities want to be in the middle of life and connect with others. They want to be a fully-fledged citizen, with rights and duties, to be challenged and to be able to get the best out of themselves. They want to participate and fit in like everyone else. That's why the Sunflower now also goes to Lowlands, to Ajax-PSV or to Portugal. And there is no longer care and gratitude, but equal and cozy meetings are facilitated between volunteers and people with disabilities. The text of the disability convention is full of this thinking and that makes it so extremely valuable for the emancipation of people with disabilities. However, such an inclusive society does not come without friction or conflict. If people with disabilities are all staying in a neat institution, and the Netherlands was world champion "beds in care" then healthy people in daily life don't have to take them into account. When people with disabilities come out of those institutions and just move into the neighborhood, it requires something from all of us. Certainly, the principles contained in the treaty are of great value, but building an inclusive society requires more: empathy, flexibility, self-control, modesty, humor, patience and perhaps even sacrifice; no concepts that are all fashionable at the moment. Let me illustrate what I mean. If people who are badly on their feet also have to be able to cross any road safely, the light for fast cars everywhere should be on red, literally, but also figuratively. We live in a world in which the fast, smart and well-equipped increasingly louder and more self-evidently claim their place, while they have received their healthy, smart, young body and mind as a gift. If we really want to have an inclusive society, then they too will have to have a bit of flexibility. This can only be achieved if everyone wants to contribute: to give each other space, to leave another in its value and to realize that your freedom ends where others' freedom begins. That could not be better transferred in any other place than in education. There children can playfully learn what it means to learn to take account of each other and to live in another; to learn to find restrictions quite simply. It is precisely in education that we have in the Netherlands, when it comes to inclusiveness, that we still have such a long way to go. I would like to mention an example from practice, where there are dozens to describe, of a blind student in an ordinary primary school who cannot go to grade 7 because the educational software that the school works with is no longer able to convert to her own laptop. The Dutch market is too small and the school finds it too complicated and too expensive. So a child at the age of 10 must experience that for her the doors are closed. Many parents do everything in their power to keep their child away from other children who may slow down or even lower the level of education in their eyes. They see the school as the best way to make their child resilient to the rat race of adult life. But if we manage to give every human being a fair chance, there will be no more rat race. Doesn't that make us all better? I understand very well that we have such a cultural change, because that is what it takes, not just for nothing. However, I have a specific request to make to the Secretary of State. He writes that he will soon start working on the implementation of the Treaty. He will do so ambitiously and in dialogue with many stakeholders, organisations of people with disabilities, industry and municipalities. I didn't see the educational organizations standing there. Will the Secretary of State, in consultation, of course, with his colleagues from OCW, explicitly involve them in the platform and the administrative consultation so that we can quickly make our education more inclusive and we can start teaching our children from an early age what it means to be a member of an inclusive society, that this does not happen by itself and often is not easy, that it does abrade and sometimes hurts, but is very worthwhile? This UN treaty is a symbol of the ideal of a world in which there is room for everyone and every human being has the same value. To achieve this, everyone will have to make a contribution. It also makes the world more beautiful for everyone. Let's get to work from tomorrow, quickly, because everyone involved in this is so impatient, right. Let us get to work on achieving the ideals of this treaty. But first the party is today, not just for people with disabilities, but for all of us!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. Everyone is equal before the law, but some are more equal than others. For some this is a passage from Animal Farm, for others this is daily practice. In many cases, inclusive thinking seems to be limited to the group without problems. And that's the problem we're discussing here and now, finally. Just shopping, visiting a café or park, going to work in the morning rush, going to a restaurant or library; it's all the most common thing in the world, but not of course for more than 2 million Dutch people with disabilities. Our society has a handicap: it is difficult to join those who need extra attention. The way in which our society is organized has thresholds that need to be reduced. Often, the weaker one's interest goes against the law of the strongest. People with disabilities also experience this all too often in person, literally. Architecture still focuses too much on people without disabilities, public transport is not a logical way of transporting people in wheelchairs, and even at school it is still far from always regulated that everyone can have equal access to the lessons. The ratification of this treaty is an important step in the emancipation of a large group of people in our society. The treaty offers opportunities for literal threshold reduction. That is very important and far from being properly regulated everywhere. The Treaty contains much more, such as participation in society on the basis of equality and equal treatment, in all respects, of people with disabilities. It is about inclusive society, which offers not only legal equality, but real equality. This requires a mentality change from exclusive to inclusive thinking. This treaty is an important step in this direction, but the real work, which means that such a change of mind must begin. The ratification of the UN Convention could be the starting point for such a change of attitude, but is it enough to take for granted what is not yet self-evident? Are these legislative proposals sufficiently deeply inclusive? During the discussion of this treaty, countless examples have been passed that show that inclusive thinking is not yet anchored in our society. Will the necessary change be taken up with sufficient force? Let us first look at the legislative proposals themselves, the process and the content. The extreme delay, the lack of resources for developing a national implementation strategy and a national action plan, to say the least, do not really testify to unbridled ambition and priority to raise inclusive thinking to a standard. Accessibility as a starting point rather than as an exception had to be added to the law at the 11th hour per amendment! Many examples of lack of inclusive thinking were mentioned during the hearing in the Lower House. For example, President Eva Westerhoff van Dovenschap outlined the very poignant situation that hearing impaired people who get a spot in mainstream education should simply take part in the listening test. The education system is deaf to the needs of people with disabilities. Even if they are accepted, that is often not enough. A few weeks ago, this room was visited by Helma Verhoeven and her assistant dog Banios. Three years ago they made a walk of no less than 250 kilometers from their hometown Cuijk to The Hague. The route was eventually twice as long as it should have been, because Helma had to walk around to stay in a hotel that allowed her and her dog to stay. By far most hotels refused them access. Arriving in The Hague, she offered the House of Representatives a petition calling for legislation guaranteeing access to shops, hotels and other facilities for anyone with a help dog or a guide dog. The lack of self-evidentity is an excellent example of lack of inclusive thinking and action. A motion by Esther Ouwehand was held, because the cabinet urgently said to work on a bill that regulates this. This ratification should replace that bill. My question to the Secretary of State is at what time we can see that people with help dogs can no longer be systematically refused in public places.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. I think this is an important point to mark for a moment. I would also like to question it. Indeed, we have seen the example of the help dog and heard stories about it. We know that it is important for this group of people to be able to travel and move in this way. However, from a practical point of view, I would like to side with it. I've had a little hotel with my partner in the last few years. That little hotel has its limitations in the sense that it has stairs and no lift. Also, because of the small scale, you always have the fact that the space you make for one person, in this case for someone with a dog, can mean that you can no longer offer those others, for example guests who are allergic. The question is not so much whether we want a global inclusive society. We want to, but as my colleague Barth has said, it sometimes rubs. It is sometimes also a question of looking for what can and cannot be done. That is why I am asking Mrs Teunissen how she looks at these kinds of considerations. Should it be a massive, more rigid structure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u15	Thanks for the question. I fully agree that it needs to be looked at in a nuanced manner, but I think it has been done a long time ago. This treaty has been there for a very long time. Mr Ganzevoort himself has just indicated that it took the government a very long time before this treaty entered the Upper Chamber. At that time, there was a lot of talk with entrepreneurs to see how best to resolve this. I certainly do not deny that there is a nuance, but I would like to use this example to point out that an excessive number of hotels do not yet provide access to aid dogs, which could be the case. Today we have a retired aid dog visiting this house. The Animal Party hopes that there will be a signal that animals will no longer be excluded from public life, especially in cases like this. I would like to get a clear response on what we can expect from measures to make public space accessible to help dogs as well. There will be a renewed plan of action to achieve a more inclusive society. The Animal Party would like to know how inclusive this plan will be in concrete proposals. So many reports and opinions have already been written, with countless recommendations to include in this roadmap, focusing on practical adjustments, but also on a necessary change of mentality. How are we going to prevent the roadmap from becoming a hunch jump for people with disabilities? The question of what methods are needed to achieve this has been answered by many organisations, such as the Coalition for Inclusion and the Human Rights College, with many opinions. I noticed that in their opinions customer participation and client control were frequently mentioned. The focus is on strengthening the client movement and on policy makers, supporters and aid workers who talk to the clients and not about them, as a new self-evident feature. Client participation and customer control should be central and experience experts should be directly involved in the policy. My question is to what extent experience experts are involved in the plan of approach and to what extent the cabinet has made room in the preparation to discuss their wishes and experiences with clients? Awareness and imagery are of decisive importance in the creation or otherwise of an inclusive society. Most awareness and imaging are created in people by getting in touch with good examples in practice. The Coalition for Inclusion states that the government can direct these good practices by encouraging organisations to do so, for example by organising a public campaign to leave the UN Convention "countries" among many Dutch people, in which people with disabilities themselves participate. This is a concrete suggestion for the shaping of awareness and imagery in practice. Can we expect awareness and imagery measures in the renewed plan of action? In what form and at what time? The Party for Animals advocates the creation of a broad inclusive thinking, also outside the borders of the Netherlands. About 1 billion people in the world, including many people with disabilities, do not benefit from economic development and are not reached with help. This will continue to be the case without the targeted involvement of public authorities, aid organisations and industry. The new direction taken by the government with development cooperation will result in drastic cuts and the transformation of the Ministry of Development Cooperation into the Ministry of "aid is trade" and will further undermine and exclude people with disabilities from the need for help and emancipation. An increasing proportion of the development money does not go to people who need help, but to business. To entrepreneurs in Africa and Asia, but also to entrepreneurs in the Netherlands. "Helping" is increasingly making way for "investment." The importance of the poorest must increasingly be in the interests of us, the richest. As early as 2013, Ton Dietz, director of the Africa Study Centre, rang the bell. After extensive research, he concluded that development initiatives have no effect on the lives of the very poor and that people with physical or intellectual disabilities in particular and people from minority groups are vulnerable and overrepresented among the extremely poor. All agreements with poor countries should therefore include provisions on how to communicate the most vulnerable part of the population in development cooperation. That is why I would also like to see the incorporation of the UN Convention into development policy in the plan of action. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The Animal Party will wholeheartedly support ratification, but will also make sure that implementation really gets its hands on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. I too am pleased to speak with the Chamber today about the approval by our Kingdom of the New York Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its Implementation. I know that this is an important day for the 2 million people with disabilities we have in the Netherlands and perhaps an exciting day. When the House of Representatives unanimously adopted the legislative proposals on 21 January 2016, I experienced the joy and emotion for the people for whom we ratify this treaty. And rightly so. We make it clear that people with disabilities in the Netherlands are full members of our society. No one should be left out. Unfortunately, it is clear that they do not experience this in everyday practice at all or sometimes at all. Apparently, our society is still not sufficiently inclusive. The creation of this treaty not only symbolises recognition for people with disabilities, but also makes a way. A way from symbol to practice, for people with visible and invisible limitations who literally and figuratively run into all kinds of obstacles. This road from treaty to practice, from symbol to practice, from recognition to practice is not always easy. Mrs. Barth has already mentioned that. In addition to rules, it also requires practical action. We need to find a balance between ambitious objectives and sometimes practical objections and complications, but also ensure careful and ambitious implementation. Before I was Secretary of State, I thought it was well arranged in the Netherlands. Maybe we all do. The accessibility of buildings for people with disabilities, the opportunities for people to just participate: if you really start looking, if you literally sit in a wheelchair or try to move into the position of people with disabilities, you will find that more time, more bad experiences and more thresholds are being experienced every day, costing incredibly much energy, time and limitation. Ever since I became Secretary of State and worked on the ratification of the Treaty, I know better. Take today's debate. I am surrounded by people who want to follow the debate. I have to compliment the people of the First Chamber. They have worked very hard, so that many people can be present in the room, a sign interpreter translates the debate and help dogs are taken care of. That's very nice. In terms of ratification laws, this is a simple adjustment on demand. But is it enough? I don't think so. We're all gonna have to pull it harder. Some of you have said this: more accessibility, more participation and not just on request. Adult and full participation means full access, especially in a parliamentary democracy. For that, the UN Convention is important and today, as far as I am concerned, it is a happy day for everyone. I hope the First Chamber agrees. Of course it's not without dilemmas. Take the building we're in right now. That comes from a different time, and has beautiful characteristics that we want to preserve. That should be possible, but let us ensure that everyone can use it and enjoy it, with or without a wheelchair, with or without a help dog, with or without a disability. It would be good if the First Chamber building was generally accessible. That's something to think about in the plans for the renovation. Perhaps it is nice at the beginning of the debate that the necessity and challenges of this law have become apparent in a nutshell. For many people with disabilities, they have a life-long and life-wide character. Unfortunately, we cannot remove the restrictions, but we can work to set up a society that simplifies, reduces and makes it possible for these people to participate on a daily basis. Like everyone else, people want to be able to participate in society independently, if they can do without all kinds of special facilities. You have probably recently seen some media initiators who are a warm advocate of this, such as the people of We Stand Up! and from Uninhibited. They advocate a society in which people with disabilities have the confidence that they can organise their lives as well as possible and with as much self-direction as possible. That is exactly what the treaty is about. The ratification process has taken a long time. A number of Members have said this, Mr Ganzevoort called it very pregnant. It took exactly nine years. That has to do with two things. On the one hand, it is because of the method of the Netherlands. If we ratify something, we want to look very closely at the consequences for other laws. We have a lot of laws, so looking at them, flogging them, commenting on them and deciding which laws do and do not comply with the treaty is just a lot of work. On the other hand, there has been a lot of discussion over the last few years about what this treaty actually means. What does it mean in practice, what does it require of parties? That discussion, which lasted nine years, was not for nothing. Our awareness has grown during that period, and she has been very careful. Mr Ganzevoort said that it has actually taken too long, because Libya, Belarus and the Central African Republic have already ratified the Treaty. However, I strongly believe that the Netherlands, even without ratification, has made a bit of progress towards promoting an inclusive society vis-à-vis these countries. However, the nine-year period has been a long period of which we can of course say to each other that it should have been quicker. I note, however, that the agreement in the coalition agreement to achieve this ratification is finally being fulfilled today. With the ratification of this Convention, we commit ourselves to the goal of working towards an inclusive society: a society in which everyone can participate on an equal footing. It is about opening up and changing society in all areas, so that people with disabilities are least affected to participate. The Treaty therefore has a number of general principles for a reason. These principles are self-evident in everyday speech use: non-discrimination, participation, equal opportunities, accessibility and respect for inherent dignity and personal autonomy. The aim of the Convention is not only to pursue these objectives, but also simply to strengthen the legal status and social status of people with disabilities. Mrs Barth rightly pointed to the history of participation and inclusion that we know in the Netherlands. It is not just about physical accessibility, but we need to look more broadly at people with disabilities. We do not want them to be out of society and "in the woods" to say it with the words of Jan Troost. We do not want to put these people into society, but then keep them separate. We do not want to create all kinds of special facilities, although they sometimes have to be. We want to pursue policies in society that allow people with disabilities to participate as simply as possible, with support where necessary. That is the ultimate objective of the Treaty, but also of the reforms that we have discussed intensively in this Chamber. With all the reforms and all the discussions aimed at organizing care and support closer to the people, within which we have discussed a number of laws in this Chamber which have given the municipalities more strength and responsibility to be closer to the people, I am convinced that this is also an important opportunity and challenge in relation to this treaty. It offers many and new opportunities for integrated policies, which can take into account personal circumstances and hence the personal circumstances of people with disabilities. This can be done from the perspective of an involved client, life-wide and focused on strengthening their own direction and self-reliance. I am convinced that the combination of the reforms we have discussed, the ratification of this Convention and its implementation, can make a very important contribution to inclusive society: the municipality, the Empire, in terms of support, participation and youth policy. In order to ratify the Convention, two laws are required, the National Law approving the Convention and the Law implementing the Convention. A number of Members have called for attention to be paid to the position of the Kingdom. They asked about the 'kingdom effect'. I am very aware that the position of people with disabilities in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands is different from that in the European part. As soon as possible, the treaty is to be extended to the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. The future functioning of the Convention is currently under investigation. In doing so, the existing legislation, including this one, as well as the obligations of the Convention in relation to the activity in the Caribbean, as well as the policies pursued, the implementing rules and the consequences for implementation. We should be aware, not only in relation to this treaty, but also in a much wider sense, that we have as a policy, for example, to implement as much Dutch legislation as possible in the BES islands, taking into account the sometimes rather specific situation and conditions of the Caribbean Netherlands. Sometimes there is a substantial difference, not only in the legal sense, but also in terms of implementation, in view of the institutions that are or are not present on those islands. This research involves the administrative colleges of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. The study is expected to be completed in July 2016. With regard to Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, there is a co-existence of this treaty. They are still under consideration, but they are independent countries within the Kingdom. They themselves must decide how and at what rate they intend to implement the implementation of the Convention. I can't make predictions. Mr Ganzevoort may want to ask when that route is ready, but that is an independent decision of those countries within the Kingdom. So I can't anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u17	These two answers both raise a follow-up question, but not so much to the predictive gifts of this Secretary of State, whom I have very high regard for, as I saw this. I have a specific question. I'll start with Caribbean Netherlands. The answers said that the research report was expected in July of this year. I should like to assume that, in this respect, I fully understand the Secretary of State that it is not a question of ratification and implementation, but only of how it should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u18	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u19	Can we then have a clear timetable as soon as possible after July on when the next steps should be taken? The fact that there is not only an eye-catching perspective, but that concrete steps must also be taken, seems to me to be essential for the Caribbean Netherlands too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u20	That seems to me to be a very reasonable question. That's exactly the purpose of the investigation. We are looking at the situation in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands and what this means for its implementation. In this way, research will enable us to decide on the introduction path and how we are going to do it by the summer. I am very willing to inform the Chambers of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u21	Thank you. Then I have a question about the rest of the Kingdom, the other three countries. Of course, they have a separate responsibility in this respect. At the same time, the question to the Dutch Government, perhaps also to the government of the Kingdom, is talking about the state law on how the Kingdom Government talks with the countries to ensure that ratification will eventually take place, with subsequent implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u22	This requires a formal decision on co-financing, but we are already talking to those countries about how we can support them in terms of further implementation of the Convention. They have to make an independent administrative decision about it, not about whether, but about how, when and in what timeframe, but we are very willing to support them in the implementation of the Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u23	It is good to hear that the Secretary of State is more explicit on this point. It is not a question of whether, but of how the treaty is implemented. That's more explicit than what's in the pieces, so I'm happy about that. Can the Secretary of State tell us a little bit more about how talks with governments have been going on so far and what willingness there is on that side to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u24	There is a difference with Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, because they have more independence as a country. They shall make their own decisions on this matter. We are in more intensive consultation with the BES islands. We have also been asked whether we are following movements in Bonaire, whether there is support and whether there are institutions on those islands. Yeah, there are. I call the movement of people with disabilities, the MiVaBo. The islands are supported in different ways in this respect, not only with regard to the adoption and ratification of the Convention. We are also looking at how, with the resources available, we can link the integrated approach to the socio-economic problem, which is very dominant in the islands, with the improvement of the position of people with disabilities. We need to look at the broad problems in the islands. The socio-economic conditions, but also the cultural conditions, are very different there. For example, when it comes to youth aid with the island councils, we are talking about whether we should not create some kind of infrastructure in this respect, so that there are not only policies and rules, but also organisations that can implement them. That will also be the subject of this Treaty. We have to make rules, but to land them, individuals and institutions must draw them. That is the most important support we must offer. This means that we will not only support these countries in thinking about the implementation and the rules of the Convention, but also in considering what support should be provided to ensure implementation. I say once again that we are very willing to look not at the question of whether, but above all at the question of how, not only in the formal regulatory sense, but also in the sense of how we can help the BES islands and the other countries. Mrs. Bredenoord said it, too. We're not here with paper and legislation. It is particularly important to get to work on implementation. This process does not end with ratification of the Convention. It's just beginning. We need to get to work on the execution. This was also one of the most important points in the parliamentary debate in the House of Representatives. It is a shared ambition of government and societal stakeholders, such as client organisations, employers and municipalities, to work towards that inclusive society in which accessibility becomes the norm. To this end, two tracks have emerged from the parliamentary debate. The first track is the plan of action for the further implementation of the Convention. The second track implies that, in consultation with the Lower House, it was decided to lay down detailed rules for general accessibility at AMvB. It might be good to reflect on that. As part of the implementation of the Convention, we want civil society organisations, such as client organisations, employers, municipalities, as well as experience experts, to see what objectives can be set for that inclusive society. An interesting thought from Mrs Bredenoord related to, a little disrespectfully said, the scientific ladder. It is indeed sometimes about how to provide information and how to communicate in terms of awareness. However, sometimes it is also a question of agreeing on a reasonable period of time for investment to promote accessibility. I am very willing to consider whether the insights of that scientific ladder can also apply to the development of the plan of action. The essence is that we want to make agreements with parties, that agreements between parties are promoted and sometimes that private parties are involved. I am pleased that VNO/NCW is also very willing not only to take part in the formulation of the objectives but also to make agreements with the affiliated employers' organisations and, if necessary, to see how accessibility can be achieved in a general sense. In the House of Representatives we talked about making the objectives more concrete. I believe that this is a right point of attention when developing the implementation plan. Two things play an important role in this. We want to take concrete steps in a number of areas of society, either because they are white spots or because they are lagging behind. However, there is a strong tendency, as I have also noticed in this Chamber, to come up with different priorities, such as participation, accessibility, or mobility. What is so important is that we will soon succeed in getting the local inclusion agenda off the ground in the plan of action. This requires, for example, setting priorities at local level, and sometimes at regional level, and looking at how best to achieve results with the people concerned. So we have to be strict on the process, we have to set a concrete objective, we have to come up with a plan of action, we have to push people when they are behind and sometimes we have to hit them or spit on the vest. Above all, however, the objectives, the pace and the reasonableness of them must be developed with the people involved, with experience experts, with the municipalities and aldermen, with the employers in the region or municipality, so that we not only create as much support as possible, but set priorities and put in place an implementation that fits the issues at stake. I have already mentioned the impulses for improvements, primarily in the areas considered important by the people themselves, access to the labour market and treatment. Mr Kuiper added a number of priorities and Mr Don also gave a list. I'm taking them, because I love them all. But what I think is particularly important is that we should work together with the people to set priorities, preferably not only with the organisations, but also with the experience experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u25	I would like to comment on the local inclusion agenda. In my speech, I referred briefly to contradiction and dialogue. At local level, you must also have sparring partners, namely the municipality, the aldermen and the local employers' organisations, as regards the labour market policy that is taking place there. There is, of course, a very different perspective in 382 municipalities, some of which have been regionalised. This means, of course, that you must have counter-motion at local level, but that is not a matter of course. How does the Secretary of State see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u26	Mr Don's question reminds me a bit of Mrs Barth's remarks in her speech. The search for a balance between achieving ambitious objectives and what is feasible and realistic in terms of time-frame is occasionally abrasive. That must be contradicted. There must be people at local level who say "this is going too slowly" or "you haven't heard enough" or "make sure we do this in a way that is being addressed in other municipalities or regions." So there has to be a solid nationwide process. I would like to talk about the extent to which this is secured and to what extent it should be secured. At the same time, it should leave sufficient room for local parties to choose their own priorities. However, I very much agree that if that were the follow-up question, we should look at how we ensure that process. It's not noncommittal. You can't say: this is a plan of action, municipality do your best and we don't look at it anymore. We need to address parties with municipalities, employers and client organisations that are sending agendas, if necessary, and ensure this approach on a multiannual basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u27	I recognize those words; I use them myself. I was with the deputy in Den Bosch yesterday. I gave the example of the House for Health Care in Maastricht. That is an institution, actually much more of a network organisation, which comes from, among other things, the importance of care. We know care organisations in all kinds of provinces, but they have fallen or tip off left and right because the money flows stopped. The House of Health in South Limburg is just trying to support people with a distance from society.I'm trying to give it a little bit wider than just people with a disability where there are questions coming from the population, from the people themselves. That does mean that you have to think about the infrastructure at local level. The Secretary of State is system responsible and it is a responsibility of the local aldermen and perhaps also of the delegates in provinces to think a little bit more about it. However, a push is needed. Does the Secretary of State want you to push it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u28	Yeah, and if it takes more than a push, that's definitely the case. After all, this is not a non-binding process. We have passed a number of laws, and I mentioned this in the context of the reforms that municipalities are supposed to provide to their citizens. We are adopting a treaty here, we are ratifying a treaty in which, in many ways, we give more attention and more rights to people with disabilities. So it's not just about planning, it's about doing things. Sometimes I will need a push, as Mr Don calls it, but sometimes we may have to speak harder to municipalities, namely when they fail. That is why I want to work with the parties to ensure that a plan is put in place, especially at local level. If parties are behind, they may need me or my successor not only to give them that push, but also to ensure that this push continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u29	I'm happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u30	Maybe I'm getting ahead of myself, but that's what I like to hear. We are mainly talking here about local implementation. In my speech, I made it clear that it is also about the implementation of this Convention in development cooperation policy. Does the Secretary of State still want to go into that? Is the government prepared to implement this treaty in development cooperation policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u31	I will come back to this specific question later. Mrs Teunissen reminded me so I would not forget this. I will certainly try not to forget that, but I am almost certain that she will help remind me otherwise. The second track is the approach in the AMvB, as a result of Mr Otwin van Dijk's amendment in the Lower House and Mr Van der Staaij's sub-amendment. This needs to be seen in conjunction with each other and, as far as I am concerned, it will enter into force no later than 1 January 2017. In response to questions from some of the Members of this Chamber, I expect that we will be able to put this AMvB in front of us in September. I am very willing to inform the First Chamber of this. After that, the advice of the Council of State will take its course. The AMvB will lay down rules which in any case relate to the progressive achievement of general accessibility, the establishment of simple provisions and the proportionality of the tax. The draft AMvB is currently being worked on. That is why I cannot anticipate it. It seems to me, however, that it would be a good idea to give a small outline of what I am thinking about, because that question was also put to me by the Chamber. When we talk about the gradual achievement of general accessibility, the essence is that it is about gradually achieving improvements in general accessibility. You could realize that by not only making arrangements of a simple nature, but at the same time thinking about questions like: we have done this now, but what should you do now if, for example, it comes to new construction or renovations? How do you move from an adjustment on demand to a gradual achievement of that general accessibility? It is important that, for example, when it comes to renovating or redesigning your business, you think about how you are going to promote that general accessibility. That is why the relationship with the implementation plan is so important. After all, this reveals what the areas in which you want to focus your attention are. So we can see if any of it ends up. We will also have to discuss with each other what is a reasonable period of time for this general accessibility. In general, some investments may take a year, but some will take a longer time. If we agree on public transport, some will only be achieved if new trains are purchased. That is a very differentiated approach, as far as I am concerned. Then I come to the simple amenities. These are provisions which, quite simply, cost little in terms of investment, but which can be achieved very quickly and are not very far-reaching. I myself liked the example of the municipality of Amsterdam: you can very quickly improve accessibility by giving the shopkeepers a walkway. That's an aluminum thing that was very cheap and with one stone it greatly improved accessibility. So it cost very little and access was greatly increased. That's great. This also gave people time to think about the question: what does that mean for my store or business later? The answer to the question of whether something is disproportionately burdensome, which was also addressed in the AMvB, is that of course all kinds of factors play a role. An important factor, as far as I am concerned, is that you look closely at the usefulness of the provision for people with disabilities in general, taking into account how often someone enters your business. The best example I liked was Albert Heijn's. Albert Heijn said: we happen to be close to an institution and we get a lot of people from that institution in our store. So we need to think about how we set up our store. So that's a lot different than an Albert Heijn who gets someone with a limitation once a year that you need to help with an adjustment on request. Here too, we are asking to look at the target group and to determine its proportionality. I am convinced that we will succeed in bringing that notion of proportionality into the AMvB in such a way that it is verifiable for any legal procedure, should it be necessary. That's what we're thinking about globally. I hope to be able to put the AMvB in front of us in September. This means that the Chamber can be informed in this way. I think that with these two tracks we are working in a good way to bring inclusive society closer and that we can make progress. Mr Don said that you should not only look at physical accessibility, but also think about accessibility financially. He gave the example of his own contribution. It might be a good thing to say a word about that too. In the debate on own contributions, in general terms, on 10 March last. in the Lower House I indicated that I think it is very important to investigate and to know to what extent, for example, the own contributions entail risks of care avoidance. We have agreed that we do qualitative research that has been taken up in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the CAK and Each. We will investigate to what extent own contributions may lead to care avoidance and what accumulation effects there are. I expect that quality research will complement the quantitative research carried out by the CBS on an increase in its own contributions. That research will be completed in the autumn of this year. Mr Don asks if we are looking wide enough. I hope I have shown that I look with an open vision at all aspects of accessibility, including the financial side. A few questions have been asked about the organisation and about the organisational structure. I mentioned the Platform Inclusion, which, as far as I am concerned, will play a central role in the implementation of the Convention. In doing so, we will support client organisations, employers and sectors with municipalities to make concrete plans. On the question of whether I am willing to support the VNG to further develop and model local inclusion agendas, my answer is that I am very willing to discuss this with the VNG. As far as I am concerned, the platform will start work soon after ratification. Indeed, we are already discussing with the parties what it will look like. I think there will be two stages. The first stage will make it 15 minutes: how do we direct it, which parties should we involve, how do we tackle it? I found the ideas of some of the speakers attractive for the stage after that. Mr Don spoke of a figurehead with which you also anchored it for the future. I hope he didn't mean by that: what are you going to do if the Secretary of State is no longer in office? I assume he expects me to be Secretary of State for a very long time, but I understand his request for certainty. It is indeed wise to consider whether we should not only have a quarter of an hour maker, but also a function to ensure the implementation of the process. I would like to emphasise once again that we are not just looking at representative institutions. I find it incredibly important to involve experience expertise. By the way, I have already promised this to a number of people who are also in this Chamber, so I am not getting out of it anymore. I'm especially attached to that. We also intend to take a broader view of the possibility of an internet consultation among people belonging to the target groups in order to include them in their thinking and participation on the priorities and themes that we will have to address in the implementation process. I do not know if we want to hold a referendum on this, but I do want an internet consultation. It seems very good to me to see if we can involve several groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u32	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for explaining the Platform Inclusion, but how do we ensure that it is given a bit of perseverance? We have lots of platforms and figureheads. There's a lot you can think of, but it has to be done. How does the Secretary of State see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u33	In the end, we have a formal toolbox. Suppose municipalities do not carry out tasks entrusted to them under the Youth Act or the Wmo or tasks expected of them in the context of further inclusion, then we will have to address these municipalities. We have a number of formal supervisory instruments that are enshrined in administrative law. However, I do not have the impression either of employers' organisations or of the municipalities that they do not want to cooperate very much to ensure that Platform Inclusion is a success. We're making an implementation plan that doesn't just consist of black letters on white paper, but that actually has an impact in practice, together with the people in the field. This is reinforced by the fact that awareness of the need to work on this is not a formal awareness. Many parties in the field, organisations for people with disabilities and also experience experts, are looking forward to the moment when implementation can start. I assume that local pressure will be put on municipalities to do this. The agreement on the implementation plan at national level will also provide the necessary energy. If, in a formal sense, I have to play a role in addressing municipalities, I will certainly not fail to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u34	If there is to be pressure in a formal sense, then it comes from the Secretary of State. Let me get this straight. If municipalities don't do what they're supposed to do, is the pressure coming from you? Which place exactly does that Platform Inclusion have to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u35	We'll meet there and we'll talk about what's right. When you create such a local agenda, what do you have to think about and not think about? How do you involve the target groups? How do we deal with identified bottlenecks? Are there any bottlenecks in legislation and regulation that may also need to be resolved? Because of the important responsibility of the municipalities for the Wmo, the Participation Act and the municipal infrastructure, they have the mandate and also the possibility to involve that inclusion point in the implementation of their policies. I think that sometimes there is an exemplary effect, sometimes a modeling effect, but sometimes also an approach because municipalities sometimes need to be addressed when they are at risk of falling behind. Again, I have no clue. I have a feeling that there is a lot of energy there to make a lot of work out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u36	Can the Secretary of State ensure that the Platform Inclusion is as close as possible to municipal organisations? Can he, if necessary, remind them again that this is the way it should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u37	That's exactly the combination we need to find. On the one hand, we need to say to each other at national level with a number of parties: how are we going to monitor whether the implementation of the Convention is progressing? On the other hand, you want to leave enough room for local and sometimes regional parties to achieve this. I believe that this can be done, if we ensure that those local inclusion agendas are made and implemented as close as possible to the municipal level and we monitor at national level whether, in simple terms, there is anything going on. This means that we will have to focus our attention on this. With regard to the Platform Inclusion, Mrs Barth made commendable comments on the involvement of education. That's very important. If we do not involve education at a very early stage, inclusion will not be the right level. People with disabilities can often participate fully in education for the first time. On the other hand, people without disabilities in education will often have to deal for the first time with the fact that not everyone is the same as you and that everyone is different, sometimes with limitation and sometimes without limitation. I see this function of education as a two-edged knife: how can you allow people with disabilities to participate and how can we teach ourselves to allow people with disabilities to function as normally as possible in society? I regard this encouragement from Mrs Barth as a great encouragement to involve education at a very early stage in the Platform Inclusion. I am happy to give her this promise. Moreover, the government and the municipalities are required to do so. We also have a responsibility. The State ratifies the Convention and is responsible for its implementation as a contracting party. Mr Ganzevoort asked about system responsibility: it took a long time, but how do we proceed? Once the Convention has been ratified, the insuring role of the implementation of the Convention lies with the public authorities. This means that the government is responsible for complying with the Convention and that new laws and regulations are not contrary to the Convention, but, more importantly, contribute to that inclusiveness. The State is therefore also responsible for the progressive implementation of the obligations arising from the Convention. Under the Convention, the State must submit a report to the UN Committee on Human Rights two years after ratification, and thereafter every four years thereafter, with a disability on the measures taken and progress made. It is from this responsibility that the agreements with the parties, including the municipalities, are made. All in all, I think that with the track of the implementation plan, then the rules in the AMvB, the approach in that Platform Inclusion and the formal obligations of the government in terms of UN law, so to speak, we have sufficient safeguards to get to work quickly, but also to respond, to jump in and to adjust where this would be necessary. I now come to a number of questions about the optional protocol. I think Mrs Bredenoord brought it up, but it has been raised by several Members. Mr Ganzevoort also asked about this point and whether it is not a bit slow. I think it's just complicated stuff. Let me try to reflect on that. In the Netherlands, we have been working for a long time to make it clearer and easier for the citizen to seek his right, so that he does not have to look for justice in all corners and holes, but to simplify and streamline that process, also within the framework of the General Administrative Law Act. That is a good thing. That's what we're gonna do. There are now a number of treaties, in which an optional protocol is possible. This provides for an additional course of action towards a non-binding supervisory body with regard, for example, to the European Commission or what is more. On the one hand, therefore, you have a convergence where case law, complaint law and appeal are concerned. On the other hand, you see a kind of exodus of supervisory bodies, including international ones, which have to implement the optional protocols. So it's kind of complicated to judge with each other what the effect is when you're on one side streamlining and on the other side differentiation. That means that the government is looking at these various protocols and looking at what it actually means. She doesn't do that because she's necessarily against it. In fact, I'm in favour. At the same time, we have to look at what it means. I do understand that I understand that this Chamber says: how much longer do you think? I'm just gonna say it simple. It may be good to take the incentives seriously in this area too. I agree with my colleagues that we will inform the Chambers before the summer of what we think about it in the final sense. I hear some Members say: I want you not only to take a stand, but also to know when you want to do something about it. I would like to undertake to promote this together with my colleagues. I do have some sympathy for the fact that we have a number of questions, namely what it means. Will it be easier for the citizen, yes or no? What does that mean for the effect of our national law? We have national rulings, including those of the Human Rights College, on the one hand, and non-binding rulings from international bodies on the other. So we will have to look at what that means and whether that also means simplification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u38	I welcome the commitment that, at least after the summer, we will be able to see what steps are going to be taken. I would, of course, like to go one step further. I hear the Secretary of State say he's in favour of that protocol. I hope I can read that as 'the government is going to sign the optional protocol'. We'll find out after the summer. I asked the following question: what is the main difference between all those questions where we have signed an optional protocol and this treaty where we do not? Why does it look more like the two that the government still hesitates about, dubt, doubts and so on? It's done with the other one. Where exactly is that difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u39	On the one hand there is a substantive side, on the other hand there is a procedural side. The substance of the matter is that there are a number of treaties in which there is not already a very heavy legal process in the Netherlands where it is very sensible to say: let us create an additional legal process in international law, an optional protocol. On the other hand, there is a growing number of optional protocols, in which there is a fairly strong and heavy judicial process in the Netherlands and in which the number of international supervisory or advisory bodies is increasing. That has led the government to think that we can look at it every time from treaty to treaty, but perhaps it would be wise to see that in conjunction, because on the one hand we are simplifying our national law and on the other hand we are diverging in international law. I'm sure it'll come together. I'm sure there's a lot better-looking minds than I can keep an even more coherent story about this. I am therefore asking for some understanding of the fact that we need to find out very carefully. We do not just want to say that we are going to do this optional protocol and create an extra course of justice, without a little more insight into what that means for the legal process in our own system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u40	Who could be against care? At the same time, I think that an optional protocol was not devised last week. Not only has it been playing with these other treaties for a very long time, but also this protocol has been there for a very long time. I think I said that 85 countries have already signed it and many countries have already ratified it. I'm gonna keep asking that question. The general argument, that we have to look closely at cohesion, I understand, but frankly it does not convince me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u41	I'll make one last attempt. Again, this is not about: Shall we sign? In fact, there are many countries which have signed the optional protocol, which also applies to the Convention, and in which it does not mean so much. If we sign something, whether it is about the treaty or the optional protocol, we take it seriously. This means that we look at the treaty to see what it means for all laws and regulations. So that's what we did. The downside is that it takes a long time. There's been a lot of discussion, especially about the consequences. The same goes for those optional protocols. It sounds attractive. There's nothing against it. In fact, if we can strengthen the legal process of people with disabilities, we must do so. At the same time, it is also wise to wonder what this means for the course of justice that we have. Does it mean we're dealing with conflicting statements? How exactly do we deal with that? Are the statements of such an international body binding or not? Do you have to deal with them in laws or regulations? I would like to point out that in the meantime, including from Europe, we have had to deal with a number of statements about treaties that we thought were not really such a pass-through, but where case law shows that this pass-through is indeed there and that this requires further alignment of our national legislation. I find it as attractive as Mr Ganzevoort to see if we can do this, but I think it is wise that the government should look very carefully at what is going on in our legal system. I agree not only to come up with a position, but also to say after the summer: this is how we are going to do it. I hope I have been able to convince the Chamber a little bit of my impatience on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u42	I very much welcome this commitment from the Secretary of State. We, too, believe that the motion adopted in this House on this subject should simply be carried out. The timing is just not clear to me. I just heard the Secretary of State say "before summer," Mr. Ganzevoort said "after summer" and now the Secretary of State also says "after summer." I'd like to hear it completely clear and clear. The Secretary of State started with "before the summer." It'd be nice if he was holding that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u43	I smelled my chance and I tried. No, that was a joke. Let me promise to do it before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u44	I have another point, if you don't mind. The Secretary of State said that if we have the means to strengthen the law of people with disabilities, then we should do so. I have a specific question about access to public spaces for people with a help dog. We discussed that in the Chamber years ago. It was then promised by the government that it would be regulated by law as soon as possible. That seems to me to be an excellent measure that you can take. It is so obvious that there is a major problem here. It's not a matter of weighing priorities. There's just one problem that people don't have access right now. Does the Secretary of State recognise that there has now been a weakening of that commitment? At first, it was agreed that there would be a law. It is now included in the drafting of this Convention. Or can the Secretary of State explain how the structural access of people with disabilities with a help dog will be regulated in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u45	It is true that this point is perfectly dealt with in the legislative proposal implementing this convention. It lays down that effective adaptations, as referred to in the AWGB, are to be understood by reference to disability or chronic diseases, in any case, to the admission of help dogs. This is explicitly regulated so that this applies as soon as this law enters into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u46	Okay, then I take back my comment about weakening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u47	I come to the interpretative explanations. Indeed, this is important in response to Mrs Barth's questions on this point, namely that there is a clear distinction between reservations and interpretative explanations. With reservations, the legal binding of the Convention is restricted. A declaration shall not restrict the obligations of the Contracting Parties under the Convention. I therefore agree with Mrs Barth's analysis: the government only wants to make interpretative statements. The Treaty is therefore respected and followed. Those statements are intended to clarify the way in which the Treaty is interpreted by the Kingdom, and they are indeed related to a number of values, standards and laws that have already been extensively and carefully discussed and enshrined in our society, and which we are therefore saying is that this Treaty does not affect that legislation. A question has been asked about Article 10 and the right to life. An interpretative statement has been made to clarify that the protection of unborn life, with which we all agree and for which we all stand, including in the Netherlands, where we have extremely careful legislation on this issue, must be implemented at national level. In response to Mr Kuiper, I would like to stress that we are talking about something that we have done very carefully when it comes to the protection of life, the choices we make in relation to the Law on Abrupting Pregnancy, the education of young mothers who want to keep their child and the extra help that we, as a society, are obliged to organise with each other at the time when people are born with disabilities. We leave that whole range intact; that is in no way affected by this treaty. There is therefore no conflict between the Treaty provisions and national legislation, and no exception is made to Treaty provisions or parts thereof. The Kingdom has only made declarations, which will be repeated upon ratification. Other parties may respond to this. So far, that has not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u48	In England, this treaty gave rise to a strong political debate, complete with hearings, about abortion because of a disability. Aren't we getting out of this discussion too easy? Doesn't the Secretary of State find it useful to have that discussion in our country in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u49	That discussion has taken place, as a result of the question of whether we should respond to it in any other way. At the same time, however, the observation was that in the Netherlands a whole system was created in a very careful way, in which we ensure careful decision-making, freedom of choice and review by other doctors, but also with a lot of attention being given to often young mothers who want to raise their child for their mufflering reasons, for which sufficient knowledge and skills must be available. We would very much like to keep the balance that we have found in the Netherlands between careful legislation on abortion and support for people who do not choose to do so. We can be proud of that in the Netherlands. The Treaty as such is no reason to go back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u50	I have also asked the Secretary of State to reflect on statements made by the International Convention on the Rights of Disabled Persons that should not be distinguished in the termination of a disability-based pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u51	Whether or not pregnancy should be discontinued must comply with all the requirements that require careful legislation, in which there is no distinction between disability or no disability. Furthermore, this should not prejudice the choices made in most cases by women, albeit sometimes in consultation with others. Let me say, for my part, that the question of whether there is a disability or not should not be the decisive factor in whether or not you are breaking up a pregnancy. There are professional due diligence requirements and there are free choice requirements that the woman in question must make. We'd like to maintain that balance. Every child born in the Netherlands is welcome, disability or no disability. I come to the question of whether the protection of the rights of people with disabilities should not be a priority in the context of foreign policy. The promotion and protection of equal rights for people with disabilities is part of the standing Dutch foreign human rights policy. Protection of the rights of people with disabilities is not included in the human rights priorities set out in the 2013 policy letter Respect and justice for every person, but is part of the Dutch commitment to equal rights for all, under the non-discrimination principle. Through the EU, the Netherlands contributes to the protection of the rights of disabled people. The EU committed itself in the EU Action Plan to international efforts to protect the rights of people with disabilities. Apart from the vehicle, not in the policy paper, but in the general EU policy, I believe that we have also enshrined the protection of the rights of people with disabilities in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u52	Those are very nice words. They are clear about human rights policy, but I have really talked specifically about the OS budget. In my speech, I pointed out alarming reports that the OS as it is now being practiced almost does not benefit people with disabilities. I wonder if the Secretary of State could comment specifically on that. Does this mean that part of the OS budget actually goes to those people or that in any other way these people are taken into account within OS and if so, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u53	This is to a very large extent through the EU. The EU lists rights of people with disabilities in human rights dialogues with third countries, including in the context of multilateral development cooperation. Furthermore, the EU contributes internationally to the protection of persons with disabilities through resources for OS and through anchoring the rights of disabled people in other programmes and projects. In EU policy, therefore, there is a clear focus in the OS policy on people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u54	That doesn't rule out the fact that the plan of action can also reflect how we implement this treaty in the Dutch OS policy? In this area, not everything runs through the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u55	That's right. Where that is the issue, I will look with my colleague from OS to see to what extent this is already the case and to what extent, to speak of Mr Don, that still needs a boost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u56	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u57	Mr Van Dijk asked when the websites would be accessible. This has already been agreed in the administrative agreement. Although progress in the accessibility of public sites is substantial, a legal requirement is nevertheless needed to enforce compliance. The obligation to access public sites according to the Directives is governed by the General Digital Infrastructure Act. It is expected to be offered to Parliament by the end of 2016. I see that Mr. Ganzevoort...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u58	He's still hesitant, but he still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u59	I had asked not only for Article 10, but also for Articles 23 and 25. I turn my question to Article 23 on the right to family life. The Human Rights College and the Council of State have raised critical questions: is there not a de facto distinction here that can be seen as a restriction of the Convention? I hear with gratitude that the Secretary of State says: in no way are the interpretative statements limited to the scope of the Convention. But if this is then interpreted in this way, then these authorities say, not the least: by the way it is interpreted, a difference is made between people with and without restrictions, for example when it comes to the right to establish a family, fertility and so on. In other words, how does the interpretation given to it relate to the criticism that this is indeed a limitation of scope?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u60	Article 23 of the Treaty deals with respect for family life, as Mr Ganzevoort said, and with the measures to be taken by the State under that Treaty. We begin with the statement that all people in the Netherlands are entitled to family formation. In implementing this right, however, the question of access to care may be raised, e.g. to have children via IVF. Due to careful legislation, including in the Netherlands, and professional medical judgements, the provision of care can sometimes not be unlimited, if only to see what is feasible, also in the medical sense. The balance should always be what can still be considered responsible care. This is particularly true in the case of the creation of pregnancies via IVF, where you have to consider whether that right is unlimited or whether you can set limits to it on medical grounds. Of course, it is important to look not only at the wishes of parents, but also at the interests of the future child. The Dutch legislation has explicitly created room for that particular consideration. To clarify this, the Netherlands has also made an interpretative statement in Article 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u61	As a result, the Netherlands seems to be in a different position than the vast majority of the other countries. These are not countries where the rights of the child do not play. Moreover, the rights of the child are guaranteed in all kinds of ways. So what drives the government to specifically fill in so many points? We are, of course, in complete agreement that we have our own values here. It is clear that the position of the child must also be taken into account in the medical assessment, but why should it be focused on so many points when other countries seem not to think it necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u62	This may again have to do with the care with which the Netherlands ratifies this kind of treaties. There are two reasons. On the one hand, not to call into question the fact that all people in the Netherlands are entitled to family formation. This has been explicitly confirmed once again, but on the other hand, to clarify, there are limits to where you can continue to give care in the course of pregnancy, for example via IVF. This is not only in the interests of parents, but also in the interests of the future child. That is the reason for clarifying it, but it is also true that it is not a violation of the Treaty's right to singing. Family formation must, of course, also be possible in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u63	Mrs Barth, on this point, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u64	Yes, on this point, Mr. Chairman. Can I test if I have understood the pieces on this subject correctly? It does indeed listen quite closely. I understand that the unique position of the Netherlands on this subject is that all other countries rely on the rights of unborn children, but the Netherlands also wants to take account of the interests of future children; children who are therefore not even conceived yet. It's a subtle difference, but not entirely unveiled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u65	Mrs Barth interprets this correctly, because we ask ourselves precisely in the case of IVf to what extent that is also justified for the future child.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u66	I would like to come back to the issue of human rights policy. I understand from the Secretary of State that he wants the position and rights of disabled people to be part of human rights policy in general. My specific question was whether the Secretary of State is prepared to promote this as a priority in human rights policy. We know that human rights policy is an almost endless waste. If you do not consider this a priority, as we have done with other groups, then very little will come of it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to stand up for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u67	I have tried to point out that it is not a human rights priority set out in the 2013 Respect and Justice Note for every human being, which sets out the principles of human rights policy, but it is an explicit part of the Dutch commitment to equal rights under the non-discrimination principle. So we are in agreement with the European development cooperation policy, which also addresses people with disabilities. So this is not so much expressed in our national note as in the European Union's international development cooperation agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u68	But what would resist calling it a priority? I also followed the discussion in the House of Representatives and I know that the House of Representatives will be closer to it and that you will have more handles to see if this gets hands and feet. So what is it that is opposed to regard this as a priority in human rights policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u69	Within human rights policy, of course, you make a number of policy choices from the point of view of development cooperation and set priorities, noting that agreements have already been reached at European level on the commitment of people with disabilities. So we do not want to be duplicated: we want to make agreements at European level, but we also want to set a number of priorities at national level. There is no major consideration of principle on the basis of this. It is more a pragmatic answer to the question of what we are doing in Dutch development policy and what we have already made international agreements on. Finally, I would like to welcome today's debate on the ratification of the UN Convention. I have also noticed in all the contributions of all the Members of this Chamber how important this debate is for them. We have had a lot of discussions over the last few years about the scope and the need for reforms, about how we can bring care closer to people, at what rate it is going to be and what it means to people, but I think it is very nice to note that the ratification of the UN Convention to give people with disabilities formal status and support, hopefully, today, can count on rather broad support. I am very grateful for that. This perhaps historic day, especially for people with disabilities, could still be a joyful day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u70	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the first-term response. We now come to the second term of office. I would just like to remind Members that, in accordance with agreements in the Seniors' College, a possible vote on this draft law will take place immediately after the end of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u71	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Secretary of State for the answers. Let me also congratulate all those who have been here all afternoon to follow this debate, because of course it was not always easy to listen here. I have just begun to say that every human being counts, that every human being is unique and that a human being in a civilized society should not only be valued and respected, but should also be given every opportunity to participate fully. That is why this is a good day, because there will be implementation after ratification. Then, in consultation with the field, the implementation of all the measures to be agreed on will also begin. I listened with a little surprise to some people in this house. What the Secretary of State has in mind is, in my view, the provision of tailor-made services. I would also like to say to Mr Kuiper that this is not about a piece of paper going to all the town halls and saying that all the municipalities must do this in the same way. No, it's about customization and taking into account the graduality of care. So not everything has to be done centrally. If the plan of approach and the customization take shape with the field, with all new ideas well inserted, it can only go well. Mrs Barth spoke for a moment about the attention and involvement in education. I assume that the labour factor is also of enormous importance to this group of disabled people. That is why this factor has been included in an amendment in the House of Representatives. I haven't heard enough about that. Perhaps the Secretary of State can reflect on that in the second term. I would like to touch on the key issues, including development policy. I wonder if we are not in danger of giving too many indications of development policy. For example, we already have poverty, education and water. We've got everything we need. If we make everything a priority, I don't think anything's right anymore. I welcome the end of the ratification debate. So I hope to get an answer to one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u72	Mr. Chairman. As already indicated, the D66 Group will fully support the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Implementing Act. For a lot of people, this is an important day. I am therefore honoured to be able to contribute, on behalf of D66, to this important step towards a more inclusive society. I would like to thank the many people present for their presence today. I'm assuming they'll be much easier to come by the restored building. So be welcome! I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his answers to our questions, including on the signing of the optional protocol, on making the plan of approach more concrete, on the further implementation of customer participation, and I really think that the insights from scientific research can help to do this very well, as well as showing ambition, including in the BES islands and in the Caribbean Netherlands. I would like to remind the Secretary of State of the words he just said at the beginning of the reply: we will all have to pull it harder. My group will be delighted to approve the bill, but at the same time insists that the government should continue to show ambition and haste and pay attention to the full breadth of restrictions for people. We look forward with interest to the AMvB and the government's position on the optional protocol for the summer season, indeed, for the summer season, also in the confidence that it will eventually be decided to simply ratify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u73	Mr. Chairman. If I have understood correctly, it is not the case that the votes take place immediately after the end of this sitting, as you have just announced, but that we will consider at the end whether there should be a vote at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u74	Well, we'll just have to establish that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u75	Yes, we have to make that absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u76	I also said "maybe votes."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u77	I thought the votes might be next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u78	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u79	Well, then I have not understood correctly, but perhaps they are not necessary at all, because I believe that there is a very broad support in this Chamber for this important treaty. The grumpy that may sometimes sound in my voice is not because of its content but because of its impatience, because we have had to wait a long time for this and we want to take a faster next step. I also welcome the commitments on this point: we will hear before the summer about the optional protocol and after the summer about the concrete plan for the BES islands; hence my confusion about what we get when. Fortunately, Mrs Barth corrected that and now we have it completely sharp again. It is important that we can take next steps. As far as we are concerned, this will not be a question of 'or', but in both cases it will be a question of 'how and when'. That is the course we must take, because in the end we have the same intention; that is how I hear it in many respects. I understand what the Secretary of State said about the interpretative statement. I also understand that it will always be a matter of weighing things up. The big problem here is not so much that a balance is being made and that the interests of a future child, whether unborn or not, are also taken into account. Of course that happens; that is also an important issue in our health care, but the point is that this is not in a bill on, for example, pregnancy or IVF, but in a bill on the rights of disabled people. Calling this question in that context gives the impression, at least, that you are making a distinction between disabled people and non-disabled people. The criticism has also been put on the table; there is the sting of the question. So it is not so much a question of whether or not we are moving to IVF in all cases. No, of course there is a balance to be made. There is therefore a fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u80	I have understood it so well, but perhaps I understand that wrongly, the interpretational statement made by the Netherlands was made here only to indicate that, where other countries look only at children who have already been conceived, the Netherlands also looks at future children. It's an interpretive explanation. It is there to clarify how the Netherlands intends to interpret this part of the disability convention, namely: we are also looking at future children. I don't think it's more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u81	Those are things we've arranged in all kinds of other contexts. We have laws for that. Of course our laws apply. But it cannot be the intention of a treaty specifically concerned with the rights of disabled people to say: ho, ho, wait, if we are talking about disabled people, then we are looking at it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u82	I don't think it says: we look at it differently. It says, "We look at it like this." It says: this is what the Netherlands is doing with its legislation. I think that's the function of an interpretive explanation. It's nothing but: this is our law and we think it's important to remember that in relation to what's in the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u83	I note that Mrs Barth reads it that way. I do not even have a substantially different view of the substance. That's not what this is about. However, it is about how we guarantee the rights of disabled people. If we say 'yes, but' and 'yes, but' on all kinds of points, then that raises the question of whether you are not making a distinction after all. I'm not gonna think of that myself. It is precisely the questions raised by the College of Human Rights and the Council of State. That is also a little bit because of the fact that I am saying that there is a lot of interpretive explanations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u84	Finally, Mrs Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u85	Yes, Mr President, I have one final comment. I have just heard the Secretary of State say very clearly: it is not a 'yes, but', it is 'yes, point, and we are doing it this way'. Maybe he'll be able to repeat that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u86	It's always nice to see Mrs Barth helping the Secretary of State. I appreciate that very much. Besides, I do not think he needs that, because he is perfectly clear. But thank you. Maybe we can agree on that, too. I haven't really received an answer to one question yet, but I was through my interruptions: how do we proceed with the Kingdom's cooperation on Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin? This question does not concern the BES islands, because we have already discussed it. I am aware that they are their own countries, with their own responsibility, but ratification, the approval of the whole of the Kingdom applies. The Kingdom Government will therefore have to discuss this further with these countries. My question, to which I have not yet received an answer, is: can the Secretary of State tell us even more precisely how this conversation is going, what steps are being taken, etc.? I'm rounding up. It's an important moment today. That is why we are holding this debate with each other, even in all shapes. For the sake of completeness, I would say that we naturally support the adoption of the Treaty. I hope that we will soon be able to see the follow-up, the implementation, the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u87	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his clear answer. He was strongly, but clearly also involved in the subject, especially with the people concerned in this context. As indicated in the first deadline, the SGP is very positive about the ratification of the treaties. We look forward to the development of this in the AMvB, which I understand we can look forward to in September 2016. Then this one will be hung. I still have a somewhat harsh feeling about the interpretative statements, in particular those relating to Article 10. This treaty could have been a very good opportunity to exchange views, and perhaps to change policies, on abortion in the event of a disability. We could have talked about the value of unborn life, even if it is disabled. As I said, this high-level political debate has already taken place in England, with hearings and so on. It is a permanent pity that in the Netherlands such a substantive discussion is always very difficult and that politicians dare to venture to do so. As a SGP man, I find a lot of secular people very nice, but sometimes they are so terribly dogmatic and inflexible, stuck in their own beliefs. That's too bad. I really hope to see a cultural change in this area. Finally, I listened carefully to what the Secretary of State said about human rights policy. I maintain that it can have added value to include the protection of the rights of people with disabilities among the human rights priorities. I would like to table the next motion in that regard. The President shall: Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Teunissen, Mr Kuiper, Mr Don and Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government also wants to actively promote inclusion of people with disabilities in its foreign policy;]] [[having also noted that the protection of the rights of people with disabilities is not one of the human rights priorities as formulated in the 2013 Policy Letter Respect and Justice for every human being;]] [[Whereas systematic discrimination, neglect and abuse of disabled persons takes place in many countries;]] [[calls on the Government to use the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to consider the protection of the rights of people with disabilities as one of the priorities of the Dutch human rights policy, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33992-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u88	Mr. Chairman. My group will wholeheartedly support the proposals that have been submitted to us here today. It is indeed an important day for those involved. For the Secretary of State, who has done a lot of things in the past few years, I think this is a very important law. He will also pass this law through the Chamber. At least that's what it looks like. Thank you for that. I should like to return to two questions that I raised in my first term. The first question concerns the example given by the government itself in terms of employment rates. We have discussed the participation of people with disabilities in companies but also in the government. The Secretary of State has spoken well about how important it is and what the government has to do if we are to interpret this treaty. But what exactly does the government do? I would like to clarify that a little bit more. I would also like to say the following to Mrs Oomen. I have been somewhat concerned by saying that we do have a platform, but we are now really entering the stage where something needs to be done. I do not mean that something uniform should be done or that municipalities should be forced to do exactly the same thing. However, if we have customization and good measures, then it must really come off the ground. The second question concerned the relationship between the interpretative statements and the original Treaty. A number of colleagues have already mentioned this. Let me focus on Article 10 of the Treaty. This is about the prowess of "every human being": "Every human being has the inherent right to life." So it says "human being." The Secretary of State says that you must also put all our laws on the protection of life and that there are also due diligence requirements. That is all true, but could it also be that the text of the Treaty actually implies a higher degree of protection than our national legislation? That's what I'm looking for. It says, "every human being." The question is: when do we talk about "every human being"? In the Netherlands and in the Dutch laws we apply the 24 week limit, but that is actually a very old arrangement. It's been so long that we know that unborn life is viable from the 21st week onwards. The treaty states: "Every human being has the inherent right to life." This also means unborn life that you could consider "human being." So, as far as we're concerned, you should also discuss the 24-week limit. It may therefore be that the treaty imposes a higher degree of protection on us than we have in our legislation. What does the Secretary of State think about this? Have there been discussions, for example in his own circle, in the Ministry, about this particular case? That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u89	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I can see some energy at the Secretary of State. He made that very clear. But indeed, if it is 2017 and we have had new elections, I am a little concerned that we may have a new Secretary of State there. Then we've lost a secretary of state with schwung. That is why I am pleased that the Secretary of State says: perhaps I will then in the background create another driver, the coordinator, a little to keep up my role. Thank you for that. The local inclusion agenda is of course very important, because that is what matters. This is not so much addressed to the Secretary of State as to my fellow senators. We are, of course, political parties. I think we are all about to agree to this UN convention. This means that we also need to work locally to see how we can achieve the inclusion agenda. I can imagine that the VVD places different accents in it than the SP, but I think that there is also a task for ourselves. I've set up a timeline. For the summer holidays we have the government's position on the optional protocol, I understand. It may be good if the Secretary of State tells us something about how his colleagues in the government think about it. For the summer we also have a plan of action for the BES islands, I understand. In September we have the content and the background of the General Measure of Governance. In the autumn we have a qualitative research into our own contribution and a research into the relationship with possible care avoidance as a complement to that qualitative research. I am still missing the date of the plan of action and the appointment of the coordinator. Perhaps the Secretary of State can mention them; then my list is complete. If he wants to do that, please. We will agree to the UN Convention; let us be clear about that. We would also like to thank the listeners and the visitors for their presence here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u90	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I very much welcome the commitments he has made about involving the education world in the platform and the administrative consultation he is about to set up. Of course, we are also very content with the promise that he will come forward with a response to the optional protocol and international complaint law before the summer. The discussion we had just had on the interpretative statements was also very good. I consider this Secretary of State to be the Secretary of State for Power. So I have every confidence in his own strength. The interruptions I have just placed with Mr Ganzevoort were therefore not intended to protect the Secretary of State, because if anyone can take excellent care of himself, that is this Secretary of State. I placed these interruptions because we attach a great deal of importance to the fact that we are looking at this very closely. Precisely because the Alliance was concerned with the feeling of "what do those interpretive explanations mean?', We attach great importance to the fact that there is no ambiguity about this. I think the Secretary of State was very clear. I'd like to get confirmation of that in second term. I'd like to end with a quote. I was just in the break to kill time to read in the magazine Markant, the magazine for the disabled sector. That came into our house this morning. There is an interview with Mr Gustaaf Bos, who has just been promoted to the question of what is needed to achieve integration between people with disabilities and people who are healthy. The "sanding" I mentioned in my first term, he comes back to that in a very visual way. In his dissertation he mentions a few very penetrating examples of what that means. I would therefore like to end with a quote from him, because he supports so well what I actually tried to say in my first term. He says, "I have a heart for citizenship and inclusion, but when we look only at what binds us and what is common, people keep falling out of the boat. You also need to make room for differences that are painful or confusing. They're part of it. Those differences not only say something about people with intellectual disabilities, but also about yourself." That's right. In my opinion, a strong society is characterized by the space it dares to create for naming differences, respecting differences and ultimately making room for differences and enjoying diversity. That is what makes a country strong and beautiful, and of that it is this treaty and the ratification by the Netherlands, a wonderful symbol, which hopefully we are going to celebrate today with all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u91	Mr. Chairman. A treaty for more than a day. I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much for the first-term answers, but in addition to joy there are also concerns in my group. The ratification is a ribbon that is cut, but it is the road that follows. Will the cabinet really move faster and really bring an inclusive society closer, both at home and in countries that depend on our aid? In this context, the Secretary of State has said something about development cooperation, but has not taken away all the concerns. In the current plan of action, it is mainly limited to the home country and to local policy. I really want to be sure that the thresholds will be removed in all areas in which the Netherlands has an influence. In support of such a policy in which aid is not the victim of trade interests, I would like to table this motion as a heartfelt support for an international inclusive policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u92	May I ask Mrs Kuiper a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u93	Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u94	Mrs Teunissen, sorry, sorry, sorry! Mrs Teunissen always talks about the implementation of this convention in other countries. Mrs Teunissen, do you know what is intended? For the Netherlands, we are going to implement the provisions we have agreed internationally. That's the question now. All these other countries are being asked to do so, and many have already done so. What role do you see before the Dutch Government now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u95	Thank you for the question; I can explain that. It's a fair question. The Netherlands simply has a development policy. In my first speech, I indicated that this development policy has shifted in recent years to more of a trade policy. It is precisely the weakest people and the people with disabilities who are affected by this. Several studies have shown that. I've also cited investigations. The Africa-Study Centre, for example, has carried out wide-ranging research into it. So if we are talking about a relevant policy to which the implementation of this Convention may apply, that is, as far as I am concerned, development cooperation policy. Mr President, I am happy to table the motion I have just announced. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Don proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many development initiatives have insufficient impact on the lives of the very poor and that especially those with disabilities are vulnerable and overrepresented in the group of very poor;]] [[Whereas ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities should also have an impact on the Dutch development cooperation policy;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a plan of action for an inclusive society, including in terms of development cooperation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33992-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u96	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their second-term contribution. Perhaps it is good to try to answer the various speakers successfully. Mrs Oomen stressed the importance of implementation. I think she was right to draw attention to the fact that we should be able to offer sufficient customisation and not overly centralized. I'm just paraphrasing her for a second. I agree with that, although I do understand the discussion, and the discussion that has taken place in the Chamber. Let me put it simply: customization should not be an excuse for delay. It seems to me that the question is how, on the one hand, we offer a lot of room for customization and, on the other hand, we monitor at national level that we are making sufficient progress. That's where the discussion came from, including in the field. Everyone was and is a bit afraid and is very pleased that we offer a lot of space for that customization, as long as we keep in mind that we are constantly moving forward. It seems to me that this should be exactly the combination. I agree with the remark that we need to keep sufficient space at local level. Mrs Oomen was right to draw attention to the labour factor. We have seen a lot of priority lists and there will be more on implementation. In any case, you will get employment participation and mobility back every time, in addition to the almost classic point of accessibility. We must pay sufficient attention to participation in the labour market, I would also say to Mr Kuiper. The government also has an exemplary role to play in this regard. This must therefore be embedded in what we are doing not only within the framework of the Treaty, but also, in fact, nationally. In view of Mr Asscher's efforts on this point, I am sure that this will remain a priority for the government. Mrs Bredenoord urged me to continue to show ambition. I'd like to confirm that again. I would point out that this ambition must not be based solely on these laws. It is precisely in the upcoming implementation phase that it is important to see ambition and enthusiasm and to see that employers, municipalities and everyone else who is involved in this plan in any way, who drives implementation. I am convinced that if there is anything to achieve this inclusive society, it is the national laws and regulations and, above all, the way in which parties will deal with them. We must therefore ensure that the enthusiasm that can be generated by the regulation is exploited and that energy is put in place to bring implementation together. Mr Ganzevoort said that he was perhaps a bit grumpy and impatient because he had to wait so long. I've also waited a long time for things that are very beautiful. That leads to you being impatient and maybe getting a little cranky, but when it comes to it, you're extra happy. I therefore hope that Mr Ganzevoort will be able to feel some happiness, even now that we have only now achieved this. He is of course right when he says that we should be even happier with the realization. I very much endorse that. He asked for extra attention to be paid to the statements. I can't say any less than Mrs Barth. Yeah, it's not. "Yes, but," but "yes, we do it this way." In fact, you can turn it around. Would it have been wise to say that, as a result of the Treaty, we are going to have another discussion on what the technical possibilities of IVF should be? No, that would be exactly the wrong approach to the debate. I think it would be a good idea not to discuss the fact that everyone has the right to family formation. It is a good tradition in many countries, including the Netherlands, to indicate that not everything that is technically possible should be done. You have a duty to protect unborn life and to protect future children from risks that we may not be able to overlook. I think it would be wise to continue the debate on this subject, but not in the context of this treaty on disability. That's what you're trying to pull away from. You want to judge it on its own merits. Following on from Mr Ganzevoort's questions about the other Kingdoms, I can tell you that we are talking about this in order to see how we can support them. We urge that they, too, quickly take the decision to formalise the Treaty. I am very willing to urge them to do so again and to ensure that they speed up by explicating where they can use our support to implement it. I'd be happy to make that further promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u97	That's very much appreciated. Can the Secretary of State also indicate what the other countries are like? Does this raise practical questions for which there is a solution or is there a more substantial discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u98	I don't have any signals that there's a substantial discussion underneath. It is much more about the practical question of how this can be resolved. That makes me hopeful, too. Mr Van Dijk once again drew attention to the value of unborn life as a result of the declaration in Article 13. I have just indicated that we need to be in regular discussions about how we do this in the Netherlands and whether that is still in line with the views or that the views are changing. We'll get those discussions. It is perhaps a good idea to use the opposite argument here too, in the sense that we are wondering whether it is wise to have that discussion based on this treaty. It seems to me that it can be run on its own merits, with all the values and standards you can have around it. I do not know who Mr Van Dijk was referring to when he said that some were so rusty and rigid. In any case, I very much respect Mr Van Dijk's opinion. I'd like to say that. I'll review the motion in a moment. I have made the necessary comments on Article 10 as well as on the employment rate. That is indeed a very important point Mr Kuiper raised. On 11 March this year, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment sent a letter on this subject to the House of Representatives. It's about a government job deal for people with disabilities. The Secretary of State, as well as other government officials, have indicated that they are making every effort to comply with these agreements. This is an example of how seriously the government is and will continue to take its role as a model for the employment rate of people with disabilities. Mr Don made an almost complete list of agendas, except for two points, namely the plan of action and the coordinator. I expect to be able to draw up the plan of action together with the parties this year. I expect to do the coordinator in two layers. First, I'm gonna appoint a 15-minute maker who's gonna have to think about the way we're gonna organize things. Then I appoint the erecting figurehead, just to put it another way, who does it for a long period of time. I expect to be able to appoint that quartermaster this year or rather very soon, even before the summer, and the coordinator at the end of this year or early next year. Now the calendar list is complete and Mr. Don can look at it. Unfortunately, I have to admit to Mrs Barth that I have to confirm that it is before the summer with those optional protocols. That is what she had firmly anchored. To put an end to all the misunderstandings, I say again: yes, that's before the summer. Mrs Teunissen hopes that the cabinet will run faster. In addition to the ambition to do so myself, I would like everyone to move faster, including municipalities, employers and other organisations that can play a role in the implementation of the Convention. After all, it is not just a question of rules and a cabinet that runs faster or makes rules even faster. The whole of society needs to think about how to bring inclusive society closer. I hope that not only the cabinet is running, but that others are running even faster in our wake to bring this about. I'd like to see the others in the back. I come to the motions, first of all to those of Mr Van Dijk. I believe that the promotion and protection of equal rights of people with disabilities is part of the existing human rights policy. In this debate, as Mr Van Dijk probably knows, we do not know a target group policy as such. I also indicated in the debate that the European Union is contributing internationally to the promotion and protection of persons with disabilities by allocating funds for them in development cooperation and by guaranteeing the rights of disabled people in other programmes. I do not think it is right to have, as a result of the Treaty, a target group discussion in development cooperation policy, which should actually be conducted with my colleague. I would also like to mention the European Union, in which we clearly play a role. For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion. The same applies to the Teunissen c.s motion. with letter E. The plan of action for an inclusive society applies to us, but also to all other countries that have ratified the Convention. Of course, as I have just said, it is sensible to see how we can work together internationally to also pay attention to people with disabilities. At the same time, it is also important to address countries that have ratified the Convention. The international community will do the same if they are insufficiently capable and fail to ensure that sufficient attention is paid to people with disabilities. As far as I am concerned, the same argument applies to the motion by the Christian Union. For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u99	Then there is the same question as with the interruption in my second term. The Secretary of State says that all countries have a responsibility here. That is true, of course, but I am talking about Dutch development policy. In recent years, the priority has shifted to stimulating trade in other countries. The policy is certainly also aimed at those who have it less, but it has largely shifted from development cooperation in the social field to trade. My question now is: how does that relate to each other? In this context, I think it is very important to look closely at the impact of this treaty on Dutch development policy. I think this is very relevant. If we are really talking about an inclusive society, we must also talk about the money we spend on development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u100	You are right, but you mention two assumptions which I do not entirely agree with. The first concerns the shift from priorities to trade in conjunction with development cooperation. I would not say in advance that this does not also benefit people with disabilities. The standard of living of many people, including those with disabilities, could increase if a country is helped in this way. Secondly, I have pointed out that development cooperation policy is working with the European Union. European development policy has agreed to focus attention on people with disabilities. For that reason, I would like to continue to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u101	There is a discussion on the first point. There are many studies, which I have also mentioned, which show that support for people with disabilities has indeed deteriorated in developing countries. In that context, I would say that it is an additional reason, and it is not the reason why we should look closely at what we spend our money on in development cooperation. What can this treaty mean for any change in priorities within that policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u102	That is perhaps all the more reason to cooperate internationally on this issue, so that not every country sets priorities for one country. It is a question of saying internationally: what agreements can we make to address the issue of people with disabilities in developing countries in an integrated way and not to allow every country to do so for itself? So I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u103	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I ask the deaf interpreter to come to the rostrum so that the auditory disabled, who may have followed this debate through livestream, can also follow the process. I propose that we vote on the motions next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-8.u104	Wish one of the members to vote on the draft law of the Rijkswet adopting the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was drawn up in New York on 13 December 2006 (Trb. 2007, 169 and Trb. 2014, 113) (33992 (R2034) and the draft law Implementing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities established in New York on 13 December 2006 (Trb. 2007, 169) (33990)? I note that this is not the case. Does one of the members want a note? That is not the case either. I note that, and many Members and other Members have highlighted this as a special moment, both legislative proposals have been accepted.
