ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. During World War II more than 6,000 aircraft crashed over the Netherlands. More than 17,000 Allied kites were killed in those crashes. Almost 1,000 of them are missing. That's been painful for family and next of kin for years. Almost all aircraft crashed in the Netherlands, especially those on land, are known on the basis of research in the seventies and eighties which types are involved and whether pilots are still left in the aircraft. My grandfather was a reporter for the Newspaper of the North. In the eighties I was allowed to be present with him at the salvage of a hunting plane in Friesland. I remember very well that the pilot's remains and possessions were found at the crash site. That pilot finally got a face and a grave. I've experienced this as impressive. I understand that the Dutch government uses three criteria when considering whether or not to proceed with the recovery of the wreckage and the identification of the victims: re-use of the land, public order and security and requests of the next of kin. However, reports from the NOS show that a fourth criterion now threatens to prevail, namely costs, although a separate pool of money is available for municipalities with a crash site. Is it true that the cost of excavation outweighs the wishes of the next of kin? Does the Minister agree with me that the Netherlands has a moral obligation to the next of kin to do everything possible to give the pilots still missing a name and a grave?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Veen draws attention to the remains of allied kites who have made the highest sacrifice in the war and whose bodies are probably still in the aircraft wrecks. Recently, the NOS reported on this. He asks me what criteria are now being applied when it comes to whether or not the bodies of the kites are being recovered. These criteria are laid down in international conventions. On this basis, the main rule is that an aircraft wreck is regarded as a war grave and is therefore left untouched. Mr Van Veen pointed out that in practice there could be reasons to store a grave and the possible remains, for example the suspicion that unexploded ammunition is present, re-destination or a request from next of kin. Mr Van Veen is right to point out that there is a possibility of a large proportion of the costs being reimbursed. For the disposal itself, the Ministry of Defence makes expertise and commitment available to the Storage and Identification Service of the Royal Air Force. In case of recovery of unexploded explosives, municipalities may be reimbursed 70% of the costs. Therefore, I do not have any direct information to show that it is precisely the costs that would result in less recovery, but there is a balancing framework that starts with the main rule that war graves are not disturbed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	It is good to hear that funds are available for municipalities to carry out this excavation. I am also pleased that the idea of solidarity has been secured. The Minister also points out that the wishes of the next of kin seem to be less heavy than the war grave, while according to the principles of the Empire, the wishes of the next of kin are of considerable importance. Can the Minister indicate in how many cases relatives in vain call on a Dutch municipality to salvage a wreck? And can the Minister send an overview of these municipalities, with their respective locations, to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	I am happy to consult with the Association of Dutch Municipalities on how municipalities deal with the requests of relatives in practice. After all, I am not sure if we have a cover-up, but like Mr Van Veen, I believe that we have to deal with the physical surpluses of the war pilots with all due respect. If there is a request from the next of kin, there may be a reason to deviate from the main international rule of not disrupting war graves. My colleague from the Defense Department will come up with a new version of the hand delivery for municipalities when dealing with aircraft wrecks, the so-called circular aircraft storage. I propose that we report at the same time on what the contact with the Association of Dutch Municipalities has brought us about whether or not we are going to dispose of and the possible role of the costs involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	I think there's work to be done. In any case, we do not want a fourth criterion to be added. The costs should not be the most significant. The desire of the next of kin, often even after more than 75 years, must weigh very heavily. I really do, and I am glad that the Minister agrees, that the Netherlands should make an ultimate effort to give pilots a resting place and a name 75 years after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	As Mr Van Veen points out, the cabinet is happy to assess this summer whether the problems he has identified occur. We agree that we have to deal very carefully with the remains of warflies.
