ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-4.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is a personal record for me to be behind the microphone twice in 20 minutes on two different topics. I don't know if this record is kept anywhere. We'll see. Also for the second time, but in a period of three years, we are talking about the cabinet proposal to cancel membership of UNIDO (United Nations Industrial Development Organization). Three years ago, my group colleague, Mr Ganzevoort, found that the argument for the withdrawal of the Treaty was rather thin. That argument was so thin, it appeared in the debate, that there was ultimately no majority for it in this Chamber. The First Chamber found that the government's view that UNIDO is not performing adequately was not substantiated by facts. Now, according to our group, a few things could have been done to the cabinet after the legislative proposal was dragged down. The cabinet could either provide an irrefutable argument that the 2 million's contribution to UNIDO would not be profitable and could be better used, or talk to UNIDO to improve the organization, strengthen priorities and bring them more in line with the Dutch spearheads. I will look at both options shortly, but just like three years ago, my group wants to see the more fundamental point of participation in UN organisations with its members now. Our group's vision of three years ago is still current and, if one wishes, consistent in this area. In 2013, we asked that the fundamental question be whether the Netherlands wants to continue to play its role in the international structures of UN organisations. This includes not only the UN itself, but also the related task organisations which, often quietly, do their job. These organisations can do so thanks to the structural memberships of a very large majority of the UN countries. Solid continuity in international cooperation is a great asset for world peace, especially for the poorest. In 2013 we asked whether there was a compelling need to refrain from doing so. In our written contribution last month, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance noted once again that membership of the United Nations is not a non-binding matter or represents a cafeteria model, but that it is a commitment that is being made structurally with all the opportunities and issues associated with it. Our group wants to base its participation in the UN and their organisations on continuity and to help guide developments. This is also underlined by the heavy struggles we give our compliments on the top prize for being a member of the Security Council for a year. As far as we're concerned, it's noblessingly obligatory. We'd like to hear a response from the Minister. We were wondering whether the government had had talks with UNIDO over the last three years to make the improvements it felt it wanted. As far as we can judge, the answer to that question is hardly. Why, my group wonders, has the cabinet, as in the 1990s and the beginning of this century, not used a formal position in the policy bodies such as the IDB (Inter-American Development Bank) and the PBC (Peacebuilding Commission) to reverse the tide, if it so wished? The invitations were there, we understand. UNIDO also did not or hardly see the Netherlands operating in the frequently held briefings and consultations for Member States. However, the cabinet has had score cards made, on the basis of which it has strengthened its assessment of the functioning of UNIDO. We hear from UNIDO that current and complete data have not always been used. We would like to hear the Minister's views on this. We are concerned that the lack of contact between the cabinet and the UN organisation has not led to too great a bias in mutual information provision. Instead, the cabinet refers to consultations in a European context with similar countries. In itself, my party welcomes a common European commitment; let that be clear. But in practice, the Netherlands has a different position than countries like Germany, Italy and Sweden. These countries are strengthening their involvement in this area rather than reducing it. Can the cabinet explain again what the joint European position on UNIDO looks like? It seems that communication between the cabinet and UNIDO is limited when it comes to understanding the real effectiveness of UNIDO and that it has not led to a common picture of goals and results. Apart from a completed score card whose underlying data are valued differently by the parties involved, in three years time there does not seem to be much change in the quality of the support provided by the cabinet. The Council of State also remains critical in its assessment of the reasons for the proposal. In this respect, we do not seem to have made much progress, while the developments at UNIDO have not stopped. For example, we read in the opinion of the Council of State that the EU and UNIDO have yet to establish their relationship, because of the tangible results of cooperation. Also in the area of cooperation with the Dutch business community as desired by the cabinet, visible steps have been taken by projects with companies such as Heineken and Philips. On top of that, Dutch businesses benefit from UNIDO procurement for more than one and a half million euros a year. A bit economical, the cabinet writes that UNIDO has taken steps on issues such as climate and energy, which touch on Dutch spearheads. Let that work for you, Mr. Chairman. Climate issues touch on Dutch spearheads. Is that really the formulation of a PvdA Minister, even after the Paris agreement, that climate only affects the key points of Dutch policy? That can't be true! Apart from the fact that our information has included structural "climate" on UNIDO's agenda since the 1990s and that issues such as water management, food safety and food waste management, industrial production pollution management in developing countries and investment in renewable energy have also been fully addressed in projects in recent years. Three years ago, we were not convinced of the imperative need to terminate our participation in UNIDO and we are still not. But of course we look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-4.u3	I call Mr Overbeek, not until after I have pressed the bell so that Members know that there is a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is, you will understand, a special moment for me: to speak here for the first time, as a near Benjamin of this venerable college. Mr Sini has now succeeded me as Benjamin. That is literally and figuratively a unique experience. However appropriate is also the subject on which this debate is concerned: the government's intention to denounce the treaty which forms the basis of Dutch membership of the UN Organisation for Industrial Development (UNIDO). UNIDO was created in 1979, as one of the last results of what was then called the New International Economic Order, the NIEO. The coincidence is that at that time, at the beginning of my academic career, I dedicated two of my first publications to the NIEO. At that time I was not able to believe that 35 years later I would speak in the First Chamber about a proposal from the current minister, a minister from the social democracy, who was so keen on the NIEO, to end the Dutch involvement in one of the pillars of that NIEO. The same proposal went shipwrecked in this Chamber three years ago. It is now up to this Chamber to assess whether the Minister's proposal is better founded this time. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister, who answered the written questions of this Chamber at a record rate, namely one day, although I regret to say that the speed has been at the expense of quality here and there. First of all, I would like to address two questions for which this Chamber has a special responsibility: is this decision in line with the responsibility which the Netherlands itself has assumed for the international order and is this proposal based on sound justification? Firstly, it concerns the weight of the proposed step. The Netherlands has always been an advocate of the UN system, the Netherlands has been a leader in development cooperation for a long time, and not so long ago, the Netherlands applied, with some success, as a member of the UN Security Council. The SP Group believes that only in exceptional situations should our country terminate its obligations under international law. Membership of a specialised UN organisation should not be terminated unless there are urgent reasons for doing so. There are no precedents for such a step either. As a precedent, the Minister mentions the termination of cooperation with Habitat. However, this is not a precedent, the comparison is flawed: it is not a treaty organisation, it is a UN work programme under the UN Secretariat. I'd like a comment from the Minister. Secondly, I would like to make a few comments on the system used in the aforementioned scorecards. UNIDO scores on average 2.75 in the Minister's list, or back to a normal report figure almost a 7, better than Habitat and UNCTAD, as good or bad as the World Health Organization, and only marginally less than UNESCO and some other organizations or programmes. In any case, the score does not seem "insufficient', as the Minister repeatedly points out. The decision to terminate the UNIDO Convention therefore seems rather arbitrary. This impression is reinforced by the lack of methodological support of this special version of scoreboard journalism free to Co Adriaanse........................................................................................................................................................................................ Although this is explicitly a comparative exercise, even after extensive research, it does not become clear to me what comparative methods are at the basis of the scorecards. Could the Minister say a little more about the justification of the methods? Would it also indicate whether, and if so how, this system has been tested by independent experts? Such an independent review of the systems used for such important decisions, bearing in mind that organisations such as the IMF and the World Bank are also on the list as necessary. This is all the more so since the Minister's reply to written questions indicates that when drawing up the assessments for the scorecards it does not apply any form of hearing, i.e. does not call on the organisations concerned to respond to the planned evaluation. Here too, my group would welcome a more detailed explanation. I now come to the case of UNIDO itself. My predecessor in this Chamber, Tuur Elzinga, argued strongly in 2013 that sustainable industrial development should still be seen as a cornerstone of the development effort. It is precisely in order to assist countries in the necessary step of producing primary products that generate little added value to higher-quality production that enables countries to operate higher in the value chain that UNIDO is, in our group's view, a valuable and important link. UNIDO is not only active in the field of private sector development, but also makes an important contribution to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda, notably through activities in the areas of water, climate and food security. The UNIDO Annual Report 2015 provides a comprehensive overview, for example of UNIDO's contributions to the implementation of the Montreal Protocol, ozone-destructive emissions of gases and the reduction of CO emissions. The government's view that UNIDO is not sufficiently relevant to the priorities of Dutch policy seems to us difficult to sustain. We would like to hear from the Minister how she indicates the data collected in UNIDO's Annual Report 2015. Of course, and apart from what I have argued before, UNIDO, or any other international organisation, cannot constantly follow and serve all the policies of all the Member States, in the case of UNIDO, with appropriate objectives. The relevance of an organization will really have to be assessed at a higher level of abstraction. If the SP Group looks at the case with those eyes, then we do not see any such mismatch that is urgently needed to end Dutch membership. Nor are we convinced of this in terms of efficiency. In April 2015, shortly before the Minister adopted her scorecard for UNIDO, the Secretary-General of UNIDO launched the new Medium-term Programme Framework for the years 2016-2019, in which UNIDO has itself learned and processed lessons from the past. This MTPF provides, in the words of the Minister himself, a good basis for improving effectiveness and efficiency. UNIDO provides a total of 26 criteria for evaluating its own functioning and 26 measurable criteria for its contribution to the achievement of UN development objectives. In June 2017, the results of the first interim MTPF evaluation are expected. Again, our group cannot, from these facts, deduce the need for immediate withdrawal of the UNIDO Convention. A final point with regard to the UNIDO score card, which is unfortunately representative of all UN organisations' score cards, is that serious and adequate source is often missing, as is argumentation of the scores given. Let me ask a specific question about one example. In the introduction to the UNIDO Scorecard, the Minister states that it is based, inter alia, on the assessment by the Multilateral Organisations Performance Assessment Network. The scorecard lacks further source. Can the Minister indicate what specific reporting is involved here? I would like to conclude with a few more general reflections. I see I have a few minutes left for that. UNIDO, as I mentioned earlier, came into being in 1979 as part of the quest for a new international economic order. The cradle of the NIEO was in Bandung, where the first conference of non-bound countries took place in 1955. The NIEO, of which Tinbergen was one of the inspirators, was finally laid down in 1974 and 1975 in two statements by the UN General Assembly, the Declaration on the Establishment of an NIEO and the Charter of Economic Rights and Obligations of States. This whole NIEO programme, an elaboration of the principles set out in Bandung for the first time, contained a fundamental criticism of the existing liberal economic world order, based unilaterally on Ricardo's ancient liberal trade theory. Perhaps the most fundamental point of the NIEO was the recognition that equal treatment of structurally unequal countries inevitably leads to unequal outcomes, or to increasing international inequality. Institutionally, NIEO efforts were anchored in a multilateral network of UN institutions, in which all countries are equally entitled. However, neoliberalism emerged in the 1980s with the NIEO and the advance of the UN system. The market would rule. The era of Keynesianism, of tightly regulated international capital movements and of prudent redistribution, national and international, took place for three decades of deregulation, privatisation, market forces and increasing inequality. For over 30 years, the UN system has been steadily weakened by the market-oriented policies of the Western countries. And now, after the big financial crisis of 2008, the world is once again at a breakpoint. Neoliberalism seems to be stalling. New stages of further liberalisation, as envisaged in TTIP and TPP, may not be achieved at all. The era of neoliberalism seems to be moving rapidly towards an era of economic nationalism. In such a world, we will need the UN more than ever, the only place where all countries can meet as equals. The Minister's proposal to cancel the UNIDO Treaty seems to be still in the process of conducting the previous war, the war of neoliberalism against the NIEO. I would like to call on the Minister to take note of the new choice to be made: the choice between economic nationalism, which the world has already tried out in the 1930s with the known consequences, and international cooperation on the basis of equivalence. The Group of the Party of European Socialists prefers this second way and considers that a withdrawal of the UNIDO treaty by the Netherlands would be unwise in that light. As always, my group is looking forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-4.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Overbeek. Would you like to stand behind the speaker's seat? You walk away like a hare, but that's not the point. Congratulations on your maiden speech. It is no coincidence that you pronounce it in a debate on the international economic order. You mentioned this yourself. Allow me to briefly outline something of your background. You have been studying foreign relations and relations between states for more than 40 years. In 1974 you started as a scientific assistant and lecturer in international relations at the University of Amsterdam. In 1994, you became a professor of international relations at the Webster University of Leiden, after which you were appointed associate professor of international relations at the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam in 1999. In 2004, you became a professor at this university. You fulfilled this function until 2015. At the VU you worked together, among other things, with fellow group members Mr Van Apeldoorn and former Prime Minister Mr Vliegenthart. In the course of time, you developed your interest in your own field as well as in the pursuit and sailing of the university as a whole. In your lecture entitled Culture or merchandise; on higher education, globalisation and the doctrine of international relations, those areas of interest came together seamlessly. You pointed out that training is increasingly seen as products to be placed on the market and that students are increasingly labelled as consumers. On several occasions you have argued for more bildung and less mass production. In your opinion, savings at the university are too focused on efficiency and too little based on substantive considerations. On the international playing field you also noticed worrying developments over the years. In your publications in the national newspapers you can read that you have made predictions a number of times which, I am sure, have come to your regret. As early as 1998, you pointed out that there was an urgent need for a common European asylum policy and in 2008 you argued that the financial crisis in the United States would inevitably shift to Europe. However, you also made positive predictions: in February, you indicated that the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union could make it easier to regulate the financial sector. Scientific insights in the field of international issues are very important to explain what is happening around us. With your arrival, the First Chamber is enriched with 40 years of scientific experience in the field of international relations. I wish you every success in your contribution to the work of the Chamber and I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for a few moments in order to give my fellow Members the opportunity to congratulate you. I will add as usual: only after I have congratulated you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Labour Party and the Independent Senate Group, I am happy to contribute to this debate, but not after I warmly congratulate Mr Overbeek on his thorough and engaging maiden speech. You could actually have mentioned me in that list of former colleagues, Mr President, because we have worked very pleasantly as colleagues at the Vrije Universiteit. Mr. Chairman. More than three years after a substantive debate on this subject, we are once again discussing the proposal to withdraw the Netherlands from the UN Organisation for Industrial Development, abbreviated UNIDO. Previously, the Council of State has described this as "a major step" and in this new round, the Council raises the question of what this means for the multilateral reputation and tradition of a country like the Netherlands. I would remind you that the UN system consists not only of the world organisation itself, but also of 17 specialised organisations, including the World Bank, the FAO, the International Labour Organisation, the WHO and UNIDO. These specialised organisations are often referred to as "the silent engines of the UN system" because of their more operational than political activities. In the 1960s, the Netherlands actively promoted the creation of a separate institution for industrial development within the UN with a generous financial contribution in 1966. In the 1980s, the Netherlands strongly supported the transformation of UNIDO from a purely UN body to a fully-fledged, specialised organisation. The only new thing in this bill compared to the previous one is that the accompanying explanatory statement now motivates the exit with reference to Dutch score cards of multilateral organisations; Mr Overbeek also pointed out. In doing so, the scope and effectiveness of the functioning of the multilateral organisations were assessed in terms of both their performance and the relevance for achieving the Dutch policy priorities. First of all, this raises the question of whether it is right to take an international organisation into account on the basis of purely Dutch policy priorities. UNIDO has 170 Member States. If each Member State makes being a member of the UN organisation dependent on meeting the national policy priorities of a particular Member State, it will be very difficult for such an organisation to work. Moreover, these priorities change repeatedly: in the Netherlands at least per cabinet period. A well-known statement is: each organisation is as strong as its members want. It is therefore more appropriate for our groups to assess the functioning of such an international organisation on the basis of the long-term objectives agreed by the Member States and the management of the organisation. In the case of UNIDO, these are: inclusive and sustainable industrial development, with a special focus on energy, water management and green growth, with the objectives of combating poverty, promoting employment, strengthening the private sector with a special focus on small and medium-sized enterprises and combating youth unemployment, especially in the least developed countries. All kinds of other than the Dutch reports show that UNIDO is an international organisation that functions properly. We discussed this last time on the basis of the assessments made by the British Development Cooperation Service DFID and the Norwegians and Danes. And now, three years later, we can add the assessments of other countries such as Japan, Germany and Sweden and also those of the European Union. Many agree that UNIDO has been competently run for many years: first by the African Kandeh K. Yumkella and now by the Chinese Director General Li Yong. The voluntary contributions of these and other countries to UNIDO have reached record amounts in recent years: several hundred million. Moreover, according to the reports, productivity per dollar invested has increased considerably: of each dollar, three are made, and that cannot be repeated by every investment fund today. It appears to the PvdA and OSF groups that this is an important achievement of UNIDO. We're curious how the Minister looks at this. For some time now, the objective of industrial development may no longer be a spearhead of the Dutch OS policy, without prejudice to the importance of sound macroeconomic growth as a driving force for development, peace and stability. There is virtually no development theory that gives no key role to industrial progress as an important part of promoting employment, economic growth and social progress. There is no development strategy that does not seek to build on the processing and marketing of raw materials and on the productive forces that a country itself has. The Minister is the Prime Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Not good trade without industrial development in developing countries. It seems to us that UNIDO's work is less distant from its policy area than the government wants us to believe. Maybe UNIDO, as the government itself states in the explanatory statement, has been so much a retrograde to the Netherlands in recent years, that The Hague is not sufficiently aware of UNIDO's commitment to the environment, industry, the private sector and the Sustainable Development Goals, in particular SDG 9 on inclusive and sustainable industrial development. In its opinion, the Council of State also raised the question of what the Netherlands has done in the light of its multilateral reputation and tradition to improve the functioning of UNIDO, or to reorganize UNIDO. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. After all, the Netherlands has also been part of UNIDO's Industrial Development Council for a number of years, as read in the United Nations' yearbooks: twelve years in total, most recently in the period 2004-2007. Our groups would also like to discuss the various reports that have reached us in common and indicate that various Dutch companies, consultancy firms and individual experts are working with UNIDO. These include Philips and Heineken and companies in the supplying leather industry and consultancy. If that should already be a criterion, which is dubious, it is interesting to mention that this order book with the Netherlands has been worth an amount that is considerably higher than the mandatory Dutch contribution for years. This year amounts to a small EUR 1.9 million, an amount which can also be booked as ODA money as a whole. The government once again writes that Dutch business will not change much as a result of the Dutch termination of membership. However, the letters we receive make us believe differently. The letter from Director-General Li Yong of UNIDO to our President once again confirms our fear that this is indeed rather naive. He writes: "It will be difficult to convince member states why businesses of a non-member should benefit from the organisation's services." He also writes: "UNIDO concentrates its efforts on working with member states and their private sector." I would ask the Minister to respond to these words in the letter from the Director-General of UNIDO to our President. Finally, I have two points of principle for the PvdA Group and the OSF. The first concerns the establishment of global cooperation, the UN system of which is at the heart. For the solidity, predictability and effectiveness of international cooperation, we consider it very important not to fall into a UN à la carte, which a country can and can enter at will. The Director-General of UNIDO rightly points to this point in his letter. The Council of State also states in its opinion to the Government that termination has consequences not only for the Netherlands but also for UNIDO. As the First Chamber, we would like to give the government the discretion to determine, on the basis of its policy priorities, where the voluntary contributions from the Netherlands are going, but in general we consider it very unwise to turn our backs on the corresponding institutions and make the compulsory contribution of the Treaty, which is certainly not high, subject to constantly changing political constellations in Member States. Then the fence of the dam, or in the words of the Council of State: "the global character of the organisation will crumble further." Our groups are also concerned with the fundamental anchoring of the Netherlands in the institutions of multilateral cooperation. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. Our last point is that the Netherlands has never taken such a step before. After all, at the request of our Chamber, the government knows how to give just one example: the International Copper Study Group. As the name suggests, this is a study group with very limited scope, buyer, which happened to be the basis of a treaty. This is a study group with 21 Member States and less than 20 staff members. This is not a specialised organisation of the UN. The government misses the point with this example, which was already on the scene three years ago. Our Chamber asked for relevant examples and we find that there are no such examples in the Netherlands. There are examples of other countries. For example, in 1975 the United States came out of the ILO, the UN's international work organization, to return to it in 1980. And the US and the United Kingdom turned their backs on UNESCO in 1984 and 1985, respectively, after which the United Kingdom returned to membership in 1997 and the US in 2003. Such unilateral steps do not fit in with the Dutch tradition of respect for international organisations and strengthening the international legal order. For this reason, despite the government's detailed reasons and answers, for which we are grateful, our political groups do not think that UNIDO is a sensible step and ask the government to reconsider its intention to withdraw from the Statute. Our groups are, of course, looking forward to the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. I should first like to congratulate Mr Overbeek on his maiden speech on behalf of the D66 Group. We look forward to continuing the cooperation which has already begun very well with this debate. As in the previous debate in the Upper House at the end of 2013, the D66 Group is concerned about the intention of the Dutch government to terminate membership of UNIDO, the UN Organisation for Industrial Development. Three years ago, the government decided to withdraw the proposal to cancel Dutch membership when there was insufficient support for it in this Chamber. Now, three years later, there is another proposal to cancel the UNIDO treaty. We are surprised by this repetition of moves and the haste with which the Minister intends to implement this. My group therefore has some questions for the Minister about the underlying reasons for this intention. In September 2015, the 17 sustainable development goals, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), were adopted at the Sustainable Development Summit in New York. This new development agenda focuses on 2030 as a target date for implementation. We welcome the fact that the Dutch Government has committed itself nationally and internationally to contributing to the achievement of this agenda. Industrialisation plays an important role in this. It is a job engine for many countries in the South and therefore also important for sustainable economic growth. Sustainable Development Goal 9 focuses on building resilient infrastructure, promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and promoting innovation. According to my group, this development goal is directly related to the government's ambitions to connect trade and aid, something for which this minister has received many compliments from all sides of the Dutch business community, whether multinationals or SMEs. Does the Minister consider that SDG 9 is relevant to its own agenda, with the importance of strengthening sustainable economic development and stimulating industry and SMEs? We also see SDG 9 in conjunction with the goals of high priority for the Netherlands, such as SDG 8 (inclusive, economic growth, employment and decent work for all), SDG 12 (sustainable consumption and production) and SDG 13, which is also important (climate change approach). Of course, all the goals are linked, which means that the goals 8, 9, 12 and 13 are also important in achieving the important development goal 1: the end of poverty. To this end, it seems to us that it is important for the Netherlands to remain a member of UNIDO and thus to have a direct influence on the functioning of the organisation. After all, UNIDO is the only specialised UN organisation that has the mandate to promote industrial development. Sustainability has clearly become an intrinsic part of this organisation's mission. In doing so, we have been given the impression from publications and discussions with UNIDO representatives that this UN organisation can make an important contribution to achieving the 2030 agenda, which is also so important to this cabinet. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. In addition, my group, like the Council of State, is still not convinced of the government's argument, based on the so-called score cards for multilateral organisations in June 2015, which UNIDO does not perform enough compared to other UN organisations. Such a scorecard can, of course, be completed in several ways, and the interpretation is obviously linked to the political constellation and changing government priorities in our own country over the past decade. Previous speakers have already commented extensively on this. We note that this scorecard was made and published on June 19, 2015, three months before the Sustainable Development Summit in New York. I would like to hear from the Minister the essential difference between the effectiveness of UNIDO compared to that of UNCTAD, the WHO and UNESCO, organisations which score the same level on a number of elements on the said scorecard. We would also like to hear from the Minister what has been done on the Dutch side in direct contact with UNIDO outside the EU coordination meetings to support the improvement of the efficiency of this organisation. My group is wondering why the Minister is withdrawing this proposal within three years. Has UNIDO been given sufficient time to make the desired adjustments? Indeed, the valuations of the score cards were made on the basis of findings from 2014 and early 2015, hence the importance of the date. Why can't we wait a year longer to decide whether or not to cancel UNIDO's membership, namely until the new scorecards are drawn up in 2017? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Of course, the annual compulsory Dutch contribution of almost 2 million euros is a significant amount. For UNIDO, it is even a crucial contribution to core funding. Failure to do so could have a direct impact on the way in which Dutch business can benefit from contracts and cooperation carried out through UNIDO. We fear that the government will make cheap, expensive purchases if there really is an ordinary austerity consideration. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The Netherlands has built up a good reputation as a leader in the international community as a country that stands for international cooperation. For decades, cooperation with UN organisations has been central to the ambition of the Netherlands to fulfil this role. My group supports the government's desire to contribute to increasing the coordination and coherence of UN activities through a critical attitude towards fragmentation and inefficiency within the UN system. It is therefore a pity that the One UN initiative has so far produced only limited results. Of course, there may be serious reasons why the Netherlands ultimately decides to withdraw from a UN organisation, but now the government's intention to withdraw from UNIDO is more like a "take-off menu approach" of the UN. Do we want to make our mandatory treaty contributions from UN organisations increasingly dependent on changing policy priorities of successive governments, while we expect sustainability and predictability from other partners, organisations and countries in international conventions and agreements? My group therefore believes that the Netherlands would set a bad example at the moment by withdrawing from UNIDO. We await with interest the Minister's answers and hope that she will reconsider the decision to terminate UNIDO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. I would like to add my congratulations to both previous speakers for Mr Overbeek on his maiden speech. The next item is the question of whether the Netherlands should continue or withdraw membership of the UN Industrial Development Organisation. A proposal from the Cabinet to decide to terminate was also submitted in November 2013. At that time, the VVD Group had doubts about continuation, but those doubts were expressed in questions brought forward by the PvdA spokesperson. A majority of the Chamber considered that the justification of the proposed decision was insufficient. The Minister withdrew the proposal, so that it could not be cancelled at that time. A new and intrusive assessment was carried out in 2015. For the VVD, it has now been clearly proven that UNIDO does not fulfil its mission. The scorecard shows that the failure of UNIDO is structural in nature. After 30 years, that's enough. The UNIDO strategy is still unclear; it does not work with measurable objectives; it is too small-scale and too fragmented to be effective and it has no catalytic effect on industrial development in the countries concerned. In other words, the mandate to combat poverty in third world countries through incentives for industrial development has not been fulfilled and there is insufficient prospects for improvement. In addition, UNIDO has also become active in other areas, such as food security, water and climate. These are issues with which the UN is also active in other contexts, which offer a much greater prospect of effectiveness. The proliferation of other issues will certainly have adversely affected the outcome of the actual mandate. The VVD Group believes that the Netherlands can better promote the contribution to these themes through appropriate links. In short, there is reason to move forward now and to cancel participation in UNIDO. The participation can then be completed as of 1 January 2018. The VVD Group did not participate in the written round. The group did not have any more pressing questions. That means that the contribution this evening is really nothing more than an extensive explanation of vote, so extensive that I would probably be angry if I tried to do so tomorrow. That is why I am doing this in this debate. In the meantime, the discussion has gone on long enough. My group therefore wishes to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-4.u9	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-4.u10	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments in anticipation of the Minister for Economic Affairs.
