ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for Housing and National Service to the Upper House. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u2	The Administrative Law Division of the Council of State has stated that the way in which the Tax Administration provides income data to residential tenants lacks a legal basis. That is why the cabinet is now coming up with repair legislation, in anticipation of the Law on the lease market, which should provide this legal basis. My group would have preferred this bill to be part of the broader law, which we are discussing here on 12 April. In fact, we are not entirely convinced of the urgency of this bill, or it should lie in the fact that on Monday 4 April the court is expected to give a ruling on an interim ruling by the House Union, which requires that no preparations are made in the form of the preparation of these data. The Minister does not mention this as an argument, so we assume that this does not matter either. However, it would be nice if the Minister could confirm that. In the order debate earlier this afternoon, the Minister stated that if this Chamber does not accept the present bill today, the income-dependent rent increase will continue to apply and the rent increase for many groups, especially lower paid, will increase. Our information shows that most landlords have already made their proposals for rent increases and are in consultation with the tenant organisations. Can the Minister explain again what will change in this discussion between tenant organisations and landlords after this afternoon if this bill is adopted? What else would have happened if this law were not to be dealt with until 5 April? In the end, however, this debate is not about rental rights, but about providing the income data by the Tax Administration of customers of private parties renting out properties to the same private parties. My group attaches great importance to the protection of privacy. This certainly applies to data from citizens who are under the control of the government. The Minister has not included in this law, as far as we can see at all speed, any possibility of asking the tenant in writing for permission to make his data available. In May 2011, this Chamber adopted the Tan motion, which calls for the right of access to personal data primarily with the citizen and declares that the right of access of institutions such as housing tenants should be an exception rather than a rule. In the subsequent Franken motion, this Chamber noted that there are trends in imposing more and more restrictions on the protection of privacy in new legislation. In fact, so does this law. If this is necessary, the same motion of this Chamber requires that criteria such as necessity, effectiveness and manageability, proportionality, effective supervision and control, and a limited period of validity be examined. In the legislative proposal before us, we hardly see anything or nothing of such a review. Hastening to legalize a growing but illegal practice seems to be more important than a careful review, for example in the form of a privacy impact assessment, the so-called PIA. Has such an assessment been carried out? If not, why not? We have looked carefully at what must weigh most. We also recognise that it can be easy for groups of tenants that they do not have to fill out forms themselves in the system of income-dependent rents. The Minister states that automatic provision by the Tax Administration is then the only way to get data, but is it? Is it easy to resist the invasion of privacy? A collective data transfer of privacy-sensitive data from millions of households is not automatically proportional as far as we are concerned. My group is not convinced of the gravity and we would therefore be in favour of tenants giving their own consent in any way to making that information available. Can the Minister not allow a system in which tenants can opt for their own assignment or authorise the landlord to do so through the Tax Office? Those who do not cooperate, as I say, could get the maximum rent increase in such a system if they repeatedly do not deliver anything. Proportionality versus privacy is the final consideration, even in this bill, even if it is just a repair bill. With the Council of State, we believe that people should be able to rely on it if they submit their data to the Tax Office, that data is not used unsolicited for other purposes, unless important interests so require. This also helps to maintain tax morale, which is high in this country. So we have a number of questions about this bill. We would like to await the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. This bill was sent to our Chamber on 3 March. After a quick written procedure, we could deal with it next week, but the Chamber was told today by the Minister that we should adopt this law today because otherwise the income-dependent rent increase will no longer be possible on 1 July and that this will indirectly cost the government 38 million euros of rent surcharge on an annual basis. If this is true, we find it a serious shortcoming that the Minister did not tell us on 3 March. In the meantime, what happened that made him see the light yesterday? The explanation that it was Easter yesterday seems insufficient to me. The Tax Administration's Data Provision Act, as I will mention briefly, aims to provide a basis for the provision of income data on household income by the Tax Administration to the landlords. The landlords use these to impose an additional income-dependent rent increase on tenants. Contrary to what the Minister states in the explanatory memorandum, this repair law is not necessary to "observe" that the Tax Administration may provide that information. Following the ruling of the Administrative Court of the Council of State on 3 February, there is absolutely no doubt as to whether this information should be provided: no, that should not be allowed. The purpose of this law is to enable this data to be provided; that is something other than "not in doubt." Together with a very large number of tenant associations in our country, the SP has a number of serious objections to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u4	I would like to come back to that 'doubtless'. Maybe I'm confused and you can help me. I thought the Council of State had made this decision at the beginning of February, when the bill was already tabled in December. So when this bill was tabled and the explanatory statement was written, there was every reason to doubt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u5	Yes. That is also what I have in the written preparation, which I am sure you have read...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u6	But we are now verbally in consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u7	.............................................................................. At that time the Minister replied: no, in no way; that explanation is now in force. So I dispute that with my contribution here. In my view, this explanation is no longer up-to-date. It would be a good idea for the Minister to acknowledge that, other than in the written reply. So this is not a minor correction, but a substantive law with far-reaching consequences for hundreds of thousands of tenants in our country. There was no legal basis for the income-dependent rent increase at first, and until now. With this law there would be another basis for that. What are our objections to this law? First of all, it is providing tax information to landlords. This breaks the duty of professional secrecy of the Tax Administration. You should only break it under very strict conditions. Mr Lintmeijer has just put it eloquencefully, so I will not repeat all that. I would also like to add that the government measures with double standards when it comes to breaking the secrecy of the Tax Administration. If the House of Representatives, as the competent supervisory body of the government, requests access to the tax arrangements with multinationals, this government refuses to do so because the individual agreements of the Tax Administration and the individual declarations must remain secret. But if landlords request the tax information of hundreds of thousands of people from the Tax Office for an additional rent increase, that is no longer the case and can simply be done. That's what we think double standards are. We would like an explanation from the government as to why it measures with double standards. Secondly, our objections focus on the system of income-dependent rent increases by the landlord, which is made possible by this law. This law is really nothing more than facilitating that system, as it says in the explanatory memorandum. We do not agree with the system of income-dependent rent increases. Households with an income of €35,000 or more or perhaps later, after amendment of the Rent Act, with an income of €39,000 or more and a rent of €700, it is about rents of up to €710 per month, according to the government's system of living too cheap. They would be so-called crooked residents, who would have to be forced to leave these homes with additional rent increases and continue to flow. Can the Minister tell us why a rent of €700 for an income of €35,000 or €40,000 would be too low a year? What standards does the Minister use to ensure that this rent is so low that an extra large rent increase must be added to it? Our second objection to this methodology is that as a result people with an income of €35,000 or more will receive €39,000 or more in a cheap house, say €400, in the near future €16 rent increase per month, if the landlord carries it out. However, most landlords are not too bad to do so as soon as it becomes legally possible. A person with a rent of €700 will receive an increase of €28 per month. This difference continues with this systematic year after year. How far you live in this system, the less rent increase you get. We can't rhyme with that. Can the Minister respond to this? I have some technical questions. Can the Minister confirm that the adoption of this law does not affect the level of the income-dependent rent increase, except for the effect that without this law there is no income-dependent rent increase at all? Can he confirm that the adoption of this law does not affect the percentage of the income-dependent rent increase on 1 July? Can he also confirm that this certainly does not affect the percentage of the normal rent increase? That is not what this law is about at all, not even indirectly. Finally, I have a comment on the claim for reimbursement which tenants have now lodged with the Ministry, because until now the data have been unlawfully provided by the Tax Administration, at least, extra-legally, insufficiently covered by the Tax Code, on the basis of which rent increases have been made for three years. For that, tenants made a claim to the Ministry. I asked for this in the written preparation. The Minister says that you can interpret that statement differently: it may not be allowed, but it is not so unlawful that the tenants will be very successful with their claim. That's a matter of judgment. Fortunately, the Minister or this Chamber does not have to judge this, but the judge will judge it. I'm very curious about that. I am also curious to hear the Minister's response to our questions and comments, although it may go a little far to say that we are looking forward to his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. What a wonderful afternoon. Yesterday, on Easter Day, we were told by an urgent email from the Registry that Minister Blok had ordered that today we should dismiss the repair law which is now before us as a hammer piece. This morning we received another letter from the Minister, which does not state any compelling reason why today, 29 March, would be a fatal date. This morning's committee meeting showed that some parties needed a full examination of this law. The fact that this is being planned on the same day, which is denying them adequate preparation, is appalling and, in the view of the PVV, unnecessary. The detailed explanation given by the Minister in this afternoon's debate on order raises even more questions than it answers. The date mentioned by the Minister on 1 July on which the rent increase is due to take effect is in about 13 weeks' time. I have heard no reason why a period of 12 weeks should be insurmountable. How can the data to be requested from the Tax Office not be provided in three weeks? Why exactly does that take four weeks? I would like a clear answer to that. So far, the Minister's arguments mainly refer to "the sooner, the better," "as soon as possible" and "as soon as possible." The committee has dealt with this law as a matter of urgency from the outset. A plenary session on 5 April was, in our opinion, as soon as possible. In that sense, we met with the Minister and the landlords. Moreover, if, financially speaking, it depends so much on the landlords, it is hard to believe that they can't wait another week for that and, if necessary, have some overtime to send the rent increase letters on time? The Minister does not explain why the landlords cannot anticipate the adoption of the repair law. It's not very unusual to take into account future policies in your operations, is it? The PVV is, to say the least, not amused about this procedural process. However, we are even more unhappy with this law, which helps to make sure that people who work hard and do their best to earn a little more with rent increases being bullied out of their social housing. The reason for all this? All these measures to promote the flow of the social housing market are, in reality, a symptom of the real problem: the massive influx of hopeless asylum seekers. This cabinet wants to give the more than 16,000 status holders currently in the asylum-seekers' centres a social rental house as soon as possible, so that the vacant places in the azc's can be used for new asylum-seekers. This law will not lead our tenants to flow into the social housing market. What continues to flow here is the crane of mass immigration, the proverbial mopping with the cranes open that we are now used to from this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. This morning, after a debate in this Chamber, which is essentially strange, it was decided that we should now debate and vote on this repair law. In the meantime, I've read through the correspondence. Yes, there has always been a call for urgency, but the urgency that is now being applied is falling out of the sky. Apparently, it came about with the Easter resurrection. Honestly, I think that's a sloppy preparation. There would have been nothing against saying directly and very clearly why this should be done now, also in connection with the passing of the law, which we will be dealing with in 14 days' time. After all, in the course of the preparation, the Chamber has done what had previously been requested, namely to deal with this matter as a matter of urgency. Looking at this law, a few conclusions can be drawn in themselves: he is good for the lowest incomes and he is good for public finances. There is very little opposition to this. I do think that GroenLinks has put forward very clearly what the privacy aspects are. However, in balancing the privacy aspects for the citizen and reducing the administrative burden on that citizen, we believe that it is justified that the cabinet should act in this way. It greatly reduces the administrative burden on citizens. In a way, we believe that this is a preselection for the passing of the law, which we will be dealing with in 14 days' time. After all, the rent increases are differentiated. I would like to receive a response from the Minister, as well as a response to, among other things, the claim of the Houses Association that the previous judgment requiring this repair means that a number of rent increases will have to be reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is pleased that this debate can now take place. Of course, it is a pity that we have not all been able to make the usual preparations, but we believe that there are sufficient interests to justify this debate. A few years ago we had a wide-ranging discussion here about the income-dependent rent increase. We will have that discussion again in two weeks' time when the law is being dealt with. I do not want to say too much about it now, but I would like to mention what is still the purpose of it at the time and in our view. Firstly, this is an incentive, preferably to free up a social or regulated home. The purpose of that whole operation was to primarily target regulated homes for the people with an income below the allocation limit. Secondly, the aim was that if that did not succeed for any reason..... there could be good reasons for his............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... According to the law, the rent must be reinvested immediately for the target group. Either directly in the form of dwellings released or through the financial detour of the rent increases, this income-dependent rent increase directly benefits the people with an income below the allocation limit. We think that is a good thing. For that, the Tax Administration is indispensable. We all thought it was a good deal. I believe that only Mr Jansen, now alderman in Utrecht, has the honour to have warned there a long time ago, but he has had no follow-up. So I think I can say that we all thought we had done well, but the Council of State has made it clear to us that this could be improved. In our opinion, the Minister has responded adequately; in good time, quickly and in terms of content. We had some questions about privacy protection and proportionality. In our opinion, these questions have been adequately answered and privacy is not at issue in an unjustified manner. We are also curious about the outcome of the procedure initiated by the House Union. If the Minister can put forward some aspects of this, we ask him to do so. It's a very big operation every time. Every year, we're stuck with that timeclamp. On 1 July the rent increases must begin. By 1 May at the latest, the proposals must be with the tenants. For some reason, that's a race against time every year. Even now, the goal is and was to save time. We believe that this is a legitimate objective. I therefore hope that today we will be able to vote on this bill, but I do not know exactly how it works. I hope that we do not have to waste the time we have gained in this way. This mega operation involves both the Tax Administration and the tenants and the landlords in a very large number. I hope it will be no surprise that the VVD will vote in favour of this bill if it votes today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. This debate focuses on the tension between good treatment and good timing. It's nice that we can still combine this afternoon. A few spokesmen were afraid this might have something to do with Easter. However, the resurrection gospel of Jesus Christ is indeed liberating, when you could say that we are dealing here with legislation that is stuck in a certain situation. In the letter sent today by the Minister, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is an important indication of today's debate. About the bill 34373, about the flow into the rental market, the minister wrote that it is "wishful" to speak about it on 5 April. It's gonna be maybe a week later, but okay. The current legislative proposal raises the bar: treatment today, otherwise it would cost EUR 19 million for the first half of the year, which would cost 38 million on an annual basis. That's a lot of money. However, I also considered the argument put forward by the Minister during the debate on order to be important. He said that if the treatment of this law were postponed, a strange situation would arise. This would benefit people with a high income. After all, they would pay significantly less rent. On the other hand, people on low incomes would receive an additional increase in rent. In the case of interruption, I have already discussed this during the debate on order, for which I apologise to the President. I understand that an order debate should not become too substantive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u12	But you're welcome to interrupt in an order debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But now I'm going to come back to the Minister. Can he indeed confirm that not adopting this law has structural consequences for people on low incomes? For my group, holding a second deadline will not really be necessary. That's what I'm saying. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to the one point I mentioned. That would be an additional argument for my group to vote in favour of this bill today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Schalk. I see to the Minister that he is able to answer directly. I shall give him the floor, but only after I have asked Members if one of them wishes to speak in the first term. I see that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my thanks once again for the fact that the debate on the order of business that we have held has led us to speak today about the legislative proposal itself. The urgency that many spokesmen asked for is my absolute priority in dealing with this bill. Mr Schalk was right to point out that people with a lower income would get a high rent increase and those with a higher income would get a low rent increase if this law did not come into force in time. This would also work structurally because rent increases will also be calculated over the past year in the coming years. I am ultimately responsible for the confusion that has arisen, or sloppyness that word was used by Mr Pijlman. I am sorry that this confusion has occurred. I did look back at the moments when I informed the Chamber about the urgency of the situation. That was February 19th, March 17th and the last time was this morning. But I can only conclude that it was apparently not sufficiently clear. So I would like once again to express my appreciation for the fact that we are now in a position to restore this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u16	I thought that letter from February 19th wasn't about this bill. This bill first received the First Chamber on 3 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u17	The letter of 19 February dealt with the coherence between the three legislative proposals concerning the rental market which the Chamber had reached or would reach. It was also Mr Köhler who asked why the Chamber only now heard about the financial consequences. I have to say that in the explanatory memorandum to the law on the flow, the financial consequences have been outlined. It seemed important to me to refer it again to the Chamber at this time, because the consequences are not insignificant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u18	That was in the explanatory memorandum to the Rental Market Act, not in the explanatory memorandum to the law that is now before us? Isn't that what this law is about? It's about the lease market, and it's about the law, and it's not about the law that's in place right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u19	The law on the flow of rentals also contains this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u20	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u21	Since the procedure was in the hands of the Council of State and of course we could not foresee what the ruling would be like, I had this repair law made in order to be able to repair in good time, should the ruling of the Council of State be that income distribution by the Tax Administration was not done properly. Because, after a social settlement agreement had been concluded between Aedes and the House Union, I had to come up with a law laying down that, it seemed logical to me to include this repair in it, because I was also unable to assess in advance which of the two legislative proposals the Chamber would deal with first. But this again points to the coherence between the three legislative proposals. The third proposal is Mrs Schouten's proposal, on which the Chamber voted this afternoon. That was also the reason to write the letter of 19 February. In that I explained that coherence. After this general introduction, I will answer the questions put by Members in order of the speakers. Mr Lintmeijer asked whether the interim proceedings were now the cause of the urgency. The fact that the first request for urgency had already been sent to the Court on 19 February at the time when the application for interim measures had not yet been brought must show that the interim measures in themselves are not the reason for the urgency of the matter. Mr. Lintmeijer also asked what exactly is changing after this afternoon. I would indeed appreciate it if the Chamber would be prepared to vote on the bill this afternoon. Should the Chamber indeed accept the proposal this afternoon, landlords will know that they can ask for an additional rent increase on a higher income. So they do not need to secure a financial space by asking for inflation plus 1.5% for people with lower incomes. It already provides housing corporations with financial peace of mind, allowing them to offer low-income people a low rent increase. The housing corporations have finally signed that social housing agreement, which is completely anchored in the Wet verwacht verwacht verwacht verwacht. I understand that Mr Lintmeijer also raised the question of principle concerning the provision of income data to landlords of housing in the social sector. He asked if there was any other way. The cabinet chooses primarily to generate an incentive to flow. My predecessors Donner and Spies have already brought a similar law into proceedings. Of the Dutch stock of social housing, half a million are inhabited by people to whom, if they applied for social housing today, such a property would not be allocated because with their income they could also go elsewhere. It is therefore important for the flow. The provision of data is also important for the investment capacity of housing corporations. Less rent increase leads to less investment capacity. The Central Planning Office has recently published a further calculation of this. Mr Lintmeijer also talks about how this is done. At the time, when the income-dependent rent increase law was introduced, I also wondered whether it would be logical to provide the income data centrally through the Tax Administration. Or could we leave an initiative with the tenant? Mr Lintmeijer outlined the option that a tenant, if he does not provide income data, would face a higher rent increase. That has two drawbacks to my taste. This leads to a large administrative task, both for all tenants in the Netherlands, who have to remember that they have to provide that income data, and for all landlords in the Netherlands, who do not receive this as a single file but really have to request it. If the result were indeed that the higher rent increase could be applied in the absence of income data, I fear that this inevitably means that vulnerable people would get relatively often a high rent increase, while their income would not give rise to it. There will rather be people who do not have the administration in order or who are low-lettered. The fact that they have not provided their income data does have a serious consequence for them. So considering everything and realizing that the privacy aspect here weighs heavily, I find the central income distribution more logical. We all know, of course, that in the case of social housing, at least at the time of allocation, there is always an income test. In my opinion, all parties really agree that social housing is really meant for the people with the lowest incomes and that such a test should take place at the time of allocation. Mr. Lintmeijer asked if the privacy of the law has been assessed. This law restores the income-dependent rent increase Act which was adopted three years ago. There has been an extensive assessment, including by the College of Personal Data Protection. Later there was also a change in the provision of the data. In the meantime, at the request of the D66 Group in particular, the powers of the College for the Protection of Personal Data have been extended by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u22	I didn't ask that for nothing, because the College's protection of personal data in 2012 was certainly not positive about the law. In this sense, nothing has changed and the negative opinion of the CBP is still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u23	It's not like nothing's changed. As I said, the size of the file that is provided has been reduced and the objection procedure that was also initiated by the College of Protection for Personal Data has also been terminated. Again, I agree with Mr Lintmeijer and others that the privacy aspect weighs heavily. Therefore, there are also strict guidelines on the retention period of the data, on the non-use of the data for any purpose other than the income-dependent rent increase and on the non-requisition of income data for other dwellings....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I also report to the Chamber every year on the correct implementation of the income-dependent rent increase. I hope I have answered the questions about the timeline of my request for urgency in my introduction. Following the question of principle concerning the provision of information on income to private organisations, I said the following. Because the stock of social housing must be allocated as a matter of priority to people who really depend on it, you do not escape an income test at the time of joining, but in my opinion not at later times, because the flow is so limited. Mr Köhler asked why the social rent threshold of €710 would be too low for an income of €35,000 or €40,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u24	I am glad that the Minister is going to answer that question, but I will come back to the previous point. I mentioned the confidentiality of tax records. This is dealt with very strictly when it comes to multinationals. Under no circumstances should there be any access to that information. Even the House of Representatives is not allowed to see those appointments and those declarations. Why, on the other hand, is it so easy to deal with these tenants? What explains the difference? The Minister didn't answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u25	I would therefore like to make that answer a little more precise than saying that data from tenants is easily handled. In my view, Mr Köhler is now referring to the question of whether tax data from individual companies could be disclosed. The Secretary of State for Finance said that I need to talk for him and I say it in my words: no, we do not. If the Chamber or anyone else would ask me to disclose the income data of individual tenants, then my answer is also no. Another question is whether it can be done in the context of the provision of social services. These are social rentals in this case, but we know that in the case of the care allowance or the rent allowance, for example, and in the case of a large number of other schemes that we can happily provide in the Netherlands, but we do want to do so to those who really need them. All such schemes require income data. That often happens in the bosom of the IRS. In this case, they are made available to landlords of social housing under strict conditions. But the fact that a government should be able to rely on income data when making social services available is, in my opinion, inevitable. Mr Köhler asked if a rent of €710 is too low for an income of €35,000 or €40,000. As Mr Köhler knows, the European agreed allocation limit for housing corporations is more than €34.000, we have established in the Housing Act that 10% is freely available and that 10% can also be allocated to the income group between €34.000 and currently €39.000, because that group is indeed on the brink of the net or the net cannot pay for homes in the free sector. The passing of the law, which we are not dealing with right now, but of which we already know the content, is an additional guarantee, especially for those middle incomes, that the income-dependent rent increase will not be applied to large families. This, in turn, is a profit over the income-dependent rent increase Act that has been in force so far. Mr Köhler asked a question that I did not understand, but I put it so that this law would not affect the rent increase, because I find it difficult to answer in the affirmative. Perhaps Mr Köhler could clarify that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u26	My question was whether the Minister can confirm that this law does not affect the level of the income-dependent rent increase or the level of the normal rent increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u27	This law restores the rates of the Income-dependent Rent Increase Act which were applicable to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the Council of State. Those percentages do not change anything. This change is hard laid down in the law for people with the lowest incomes, but this law makes it possible for corporations to sort it out because they know that the income-dependent rent increase is again possible against the old rate of inflation plus 4%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u28	In the second term, can the Minister answer the question as to where this law states what the percentages he considers to be maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u29	That is not in this law, because this law repairs the article that explicitly states that the Tax Administration must provide data. That was at the heart of the Council of State's ruling. Furthermore, this law strengthens the protection of privacy a little bit, because it not only allows the use of falsely requested income data to be punished but even punishes the demand for it. So that is a little further tightening up. However, this also implies that the rest of the law remains unchanged, including the percentages. Mr Köhler, Mr Schouwenaar and Mr Pijlman asked whether I expect tenants to be able to claim reimbursement of the income-dependent rent increase from the past. I do not expect that, because the ruling of the Court of Justice of the Council of State merely refers to the provision of data by the Tax Administration and not to the unjustified linking of the space for rent increase to the tenant's income. Mrs Van Weerdenburg asked why three weeks is too short to provide income and four weeks enough. Also four weeks is tight, but the date on which the landlords have to slide the letters with the new rentals through the mailbox of the tenants is 30 April. Before that time the income data must be processed, at the Tax Office and at the housing corporations, and the rent increase proposals must be sent. Four weeks are already tight enough for the previous requests of both Aedes and myself to assume an earlier date, but it is not unfeasible. Mrs Van Weerdenburg talked about working overtime; I think that will often happen. With three weeks, it is no longer humanly feasible. Mrs Van Weerdenburg asked why tenants can't get ahead of themselves. That's because the tax authorities won't provide the data. We want to deal with this information carefully. Mrs Van Weerdenburg addressed status holders extensively. In my opinion, that has no direct relationship with this law. The cabinet has set up a separate subsidy scheme to create additional housing in the social housing sector in the short term, including for status holders. This also indicates that we want to avoid unnecessary increases in waiting lists on the social housing market by means of additional measures and additional money. I hope that I have explained to Mr Pijlman that, although I have tried to report the urgency in good time, I have apparently failed to do so. I agree with him that this law ultimately saves low incomes and gives public finances a little more air. That is also the reason for the great urgency I feel. In the balance between privacy and administrative burden, Mr Pijlman follows the same balance as the one I finally followed: it will be a huge task, most of all for the tenants, who would also become very vulnerable, to place the initiative for the distribution of income entirely with the tenants. Mr. Pijlman asked if this law pre-sorted on the Wet flow rent market 2015. That's not true. He calls for a system of a law in life for which I was allowed to receive the support of D66 in the past. I hope to amend the income-dependent rent increase in the original form in line with the agreement between Aedes and the Housing Association with the Wet doorfleiding rentmarkt 2015. What the present law is doing is making something possible again that Mr Pijlman's party and the cabinet agreed on in the past. Mr Pijlman asked if I expected the rent increases to be reversed. I've indicated that I don't expect that. I agree with Mr Schouwenaar that the impetus for the flow is urgently needed, but that we should not force people to leave their homes We calculate a rent more in line with the level of their income for people with higher incomes. Some will then indeed take the step towards flowing through. Although it has not yet been fully vetted, the first figures of the Tax Administration show that the share of people with high income in social housing is falling in recent years. With Mr Schouwenaar, I hope that this legislative proposal can be voted on today. I hope that Mr Schalk has confirmed that the adoption of the law is to the advantage of lower incomes, that higher incomes can indeed pay a slightly higher contribution and that, if this does not happen, it will work structurally in the rents over the coming years. I hope I have answered all the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u30	Thank you. In doing so, we have reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u31	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers to our questions. I would just like to make it clear that we will be discussing the content of the Rental Market Act 2015 and all aspects of it on 12 April. So my comments are not about that. One question remains with me, namely whether it is proportionate to the "service" you offer to tenants. I agree with the Minister's reasoning, which says that people at the bottom in particular should not be unfairly penalised for not handing over data in time. We also want to take this aspect into account in our final assessment. Then there is the point that we would like to see, and we would like to hear a commitment from the Minister, that the annual report, which the Minister is already making, explicitly and perhaps also reviewed by the CBP, includes comments on how the privacy aspect has been dealt with in the annual batches, whether there have been complaints from tenants and, if so, how these complaints have been dealt with. We would like to see the privacy aspect still heavily revisited in the reports provided by the Minister. Depending on the Minister's answer, we will take this into account in our final assessment of this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u32	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I would like to touch on a few more points. First of all, what will change by adopting this law now? In my view, this repair law restores the old, i.e. not the new, income-dependent rent increase scheme. So on the basis of this law one cannot further increase income-dependent rents and further reduce the other rents. None of that is possible. The only thing we're fixing now with this law is the old income-dependent rent increase. That's what we provide the basis for. I do not understand how this can lead to the conclusion not only of the Minister, who confirmed this, but also of other spokesmen: we are in favour of this law, because it will result in lower rent increases in the future. No, zero percent, this law has nothing to do with that. Such a differentiation could occur if the Act on the Transfer of Rental Market 2015 is adopted, only then. We are talking about this in 14 days' time, but I would like to say that, given the content of that law, I do not think that will be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u33	I feel appealed because I belong to the group which apparently lacks comprehension. So I actually want to defend myself a little, if that's okay. I see it as follows. If there is no tax information, then no income-dependent rent increase. Because you can't make a division into groups. The corporations or the landlords then miss revenue for an important part. They do, however, need this income, regardless of things like selling old property or working more efficiently, to keep their business running. Now it's about this income. They're gonna need it. If they can't get it from the extra rents anymore, then they have to get it from the lower incomes. In addition, there is additional space, from 1% to 2.1%. Furthermore, there is no brake, the ceiling of the rent. So there are two factors: the attractiveness of the opportunity to get extra money there and the lack of inhibitions there. Mr Köhler may say that this is a theoretical idea, but I have discussed this several times with Aedes. Turns out it's a little less theoretical than you should assume. In this way, I believe that the consequence is very clear. Higher incomes which could thus be eligible for income-dependent rent increases if the Tax Administration is allowed to provide the data, go from 4.5 to even 5% to 2.1% and lower incomes go towards 2.1%. Lower incomes therefore receive a higher rent increase and higher incomes a lower rent increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u34	I belong to the same category of non-snappers. If we do not adopt this law, I believe that it will be increased without differentiation. That's the point. This is detrimental to the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u35	These two reasonings anticipate what the corporations are talking about, but I would like to comment on the private landlords' claim to be doing after the law and a circular of the minister based on it become applicable for this interim year, but that is not yet the case. That's not gonna happen until after April 12th. This law only brings us back to the old relationships and the increase in rent allowed in them. I would just like to briefly explain why this follow-up is not going to take place afterwards. In his reasoning, the Minister linked these two cases. Together they would ensure the differentiated rent increase and the additional cost of the rent surcharge. After passing the law the corporations will moderate the rents, but no longer ask for the income-dependent rent increase on any scale, because that simply cannot be done within the rent sum of 1%. So they're gonna give up on that. At most, additional agreements will be made locally in subsequent years. Now, however, that is not what we are going to do. That's a question to ask. The general rent increase for lower incomes will be moderated, but this can be done under the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u36	They do not suffer from the rent in the income-dependent rent increase, which may remain outside, provided that the proceeds of the income-dependent rent increase are directly invested in new construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u37	According to the law, they may only remain outside in the case of local agreements with the tenants' organisation and the municipality. Those local appointments do not exist for this year at all to my knowledge. At most, next year will be the case, so the corporations will not propose it on the basis of this law, but not on the basis of the next law this year. There are also a lot of local arrangements. One can just ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u38	I understand the discussion because it is so intertwined. I would now like to bring it back to the bill we are discussing today. It's very simple. There's a technical flaw in the law on getting income data. We have accepted that law. Anyone opposed was against it. I was against it, too, but we need to fix it now. That is also our task in my view. I don't think you need to involve all those issues of the next law, or what it means for the previous law. Now it's about fixing a mistake. That's all this bill does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u39	Mrs De Vries is absolutely right about this, but we have not included in this debate all kinds of things that are not related to this law, such as the statement that it would give so much of a million rent allowance and that it would lead to lower rents for lower incomes. None of that has anything to do with this law. It only repairs the old law. I indicated in the first term that we did not already agree with that old law. Nor do we agree with the new law, because of the content of this measure. My questions to the Minister were about that, too. Why is this form of income-dependent rent increase made possible by this law? How far you live, the less rent increase is my thesis, but the Minister has not answered my question about the logic behind it. My question why the rent rate would be too high for someone with an income of €40,000 and €700 rent per month has been answered, not by saying why the rent rate is too high, but by indicating that we have agreed Europeanly that an additional rent increase above the limit of €34.000 may be requested. The Netherlands has done so itself. That is not a European obligation at all. My question was why the Minister thinks that the rent of €700 is too low for someone with an income of €35,000. Isn't that what you have to prove by saying that the share of rent on the net or gross income is objectively too low? If you can't prove that, I don't think you have any argument to impose an additional rent increase on these people. Can the Minister come forward with an argument in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u40	Thank you. We need the Minister's second term. The Minister for Housing and National Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u41	Mr. Chairman. Mr Lintmeijer asked if I would be prepared to provide the numbers of wrongly requested income data over the next few years. I'm willing to keep doing that. This information has also been made available in recent years. I think it's good to keep doing that. Mr Köhler noted that Mrs De Vries was impressed by the fact that what this law essentially does is to restore an old law. Mr Schouwenaar and Mr Pijlman pointed out that, with that science in mind, corporations can moderate the rise in income for the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u42	My question was slightly broader than the one the Minister mentioned. I was concerned that the report also gives us an overview of how privacy has been handled. Another example I gave is that you could see if there were any complaints from tenants about how data from tenants were used or not. I was looking for a slightly broader interpretation of the concept of "accountability" on the privacy side of the data provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u43	Yes, I can answer that question. Over the past year, we have provided figures on the number of tenants who have been advertised on the basis of false data provided to them. The tenants will also be notified that their data has been provided. It has also been indicated which share of it was justified. The number of sanctions imposed is also mentioned. I will continue to provide that information. Mr Köhler's question about someone with a relatively low rent who, with a percentage rent increase in absolute amounts, gets less rent increase than someone with a higher rent I have not yet answered. He will forgive me if I turn that question to a call to look again at the law flowing rental market. One part of this is that the rent increase that housing corporations will apply for people with relatively low rent will be higher than for people already close to the maximum permissible rent. The average of these rent increases and the harmonisation of rents will not exceed 1%. But indeed, in housing corporations there was a desire at this point for more opportunities to deal with people who live very crookedly. So I hope to give that opportunity with the Law flow rental market. Finally, Mr Köhler asked for an opinion on what is a reasonable rental ratio. The debate on this subject is held at regular intervals. I don't think you should centralize how many people are allowed to spend on living in a free country. For a big one, that has to do with preferences. You can decide how many people can reasonably spend. In doing so, I look closely at the standards of the Nibud. Without these standards becoming automatically law, we do allow them to weigh heavily in the way we look at the heights of the rents in the social rental sector and the space for income-dependent rent increases. I already indicated that in the Lower House it was partly because of this decision to limit the income-dependent rent increase in the Wet doorflood rent market precisely for large families, because the Nibud indicates that it is getting tight. Along this route, which I also send to the Chamber every year in the reports on the housing market as a whole and on the social housing sector in particular, we keep our finger on the pulse without taking the step towards one central standard for a housing quote. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-9.u45	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? I see that is not the case.
