ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. I do not answer the questions in the order of the speaker, but as much as possible. I would like to thank Members for their first-term input. The importance of electronic data exchange in healthcare is undisputed. Caregivers will be better able to adapt the treatment later to the patient's situation if they have the right information at the right time. The number of errors can also be reduced. Mistakes, which are often harmful and sometimes even life-threatening. The KNMP, together with a number of patient organizations, described this in a striking way in the letter she sent to the Chamber. The fact that Mrs Smit is prescribed an antidepressant from a ggz institution which together with the general practitioner's painkiller leads to a deadly cocktail should be a thing of the past. Dealers should have a complete overview in such a situation. Good data exchange can remove irritation in patients undergoing treatment in multiple physicians. They experience that they have to do their story over and over again. The story of Anne-Miek Vroom during eHealth Week stays with me. Because of her illness, she often comes to a new health care provider. She wonders why her treatment history, including many X-rays, cannot be shared with the next healthcare provider with the current state of the art. That's gotta be different. Finally, but not insignificant, electronic data exchange contributes to cost control in care. Doctors have lost less time to obtain the necessary information; overtreatment and errors can be avoided. The electronic exchange of medical data - a number of members have rightly stressed this - is not new at all. Nor is it prescribed by this bill. Electronic data exchange is the order of the day. The importance of electronic data exchange is increasing. In June, during the EU Presidency, VWS organised the International eHealth Week. It was impressive to see how innovation changes care. This will strengthen the importance of electronic data exchange over the coming years. That is precisely why people must be able to rely on this to be done in a safe and responsible manner. People need to be able to direct this. This applies in particular to medical data. It is not for nothing that the bill is referred to as the Customer Rights Act for the electronic processing of data. During the examination of this bill, questions were asked as: what does this bill regulate and what is its added value? The bill regulates framework conditions for electronic data exchange and regulates patients' rights. The core of the bill is the healthcare provider's duty to obtain prior consent from the patient to make data available for consultation through an electronic exchange system. I would like to correct the misunderstanding that this bill was made only for the LSP. It applies to all electronic exchange systems. Alternatives, such as Whitebox, can also emerge, but they can also develop within the system. It is the patient's right to indicate which care providers or categories of healthcare providers may make their data available and to which category of healthcare providers, with whom he has or has a treatment relationship, he wishes to make his data available. There is also the right to electronic access to its file and the right to obtain an electronic copy thereof, and the right to impose specific functional, technical and organisational requirements on electronic data exchange and the prevention of abuse of electronic exchange systems by health insurers by prohibiting access and sanctioning abuse. This bill responds to a number of express wishes expressed by both Chambers. Why do we have to deal with the bill now? The bill was passed in the Lower House in mid-2014. In the First Chamber it has led to the necessary questions and discussions: three written rounds, two technical briefings and two expert meetings. I am therefore very pleased that I am now standing here to debate this bill with this Chamber. During the meeting with experts in this Chamber, some parties expressed concerns about the feasibility of the provision concerning the specified consent. Consultations with the KNMG, the KNMP, the LHV, the NPCF and Nictiz have shown that a number of provisions are not yet feasible. This applies to the request and registration of specified consent and to the right of electronic access and the copy. My proposal is that these provisions should enter into force in three years' time. That proposal is also supported by the parties working on specified consent, as can be seen in the letter from these parties who have also received this Chamber. The postponement of these provisions is not an obstacle to the adoption of the legislative proposal, quite the contrary. The adoption of the legislative proposal has an important driving role for care; it provides clarity to caretakers and ICT providers about the requirements that are now and subsequently being made. This clarity is necessary in order to make the investments needed to achieve a wide-ranging safe data exchange, with patient direction. The letter shows that the care field also needs this: a clear perspective for patients, caregivers and suppliers is desirable in order to achieve the goal of the programme in a responsible and effective way. More direction by the patient. Waiting for all the provisions to be enforceable, I think a missed opportunity, because some of the undisputed provisions are being postponed. The ban on access for insurers and business doctors and so on can be considered. I think that sometimes the government should take the lead and take the lead and not always leave everything to the parties and say to the sector: take care of it! In fact, you would not expect that from a liberal, because liberals say self-regulation. But self-regulation is not going to regulate it here. In any case, self-regulation is not going to regulate giving patients rights that we believe should be granted. If we leave this because we can't do it all now, I'm sure we won't be where we need to be in three years' time. And that's what the whole sector actually says. Parties also write that to the Chamber. They need direction. They want to invest, but they need to know what to invest in. I am convinced that it is in the patient's best interest that we should deal with this bill now and that we should make a very clear statement: we want to be there in three years' time! Dear people, best investors, best caregivers, best hospitals: you need to invest in them! This is the timetable, this is the trajectory! Dear ICT providers: we want this, this and this arranged, so you know what to do with the development of your systems! I can't do it either, and I can't say, well, we can do so much already, and it'll take care of itself. But this isn't gonna happen on its own. We have been able to see that clearly for the past ten or fifteen years. It is not going to take place spontaneously, at least not in the direction in which we believe it should take place, such as the rights that patients should have in our opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u2	Then why didn't the Minister choose to say that the specified consent will come into effect in three years' time? Instead, she says, for the next three years, we have generic consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u3	No, I'm saying this: if it's up to me, I'd like to introduce that specified permission tomorrow. But that's technically impossible. With the field, as with the ICT suppliers, I have looked carefully when it is possible. I've focused that trajectory on three years. Then it can be realized, but there is ambition in it. So we're gonna do it. In the meantime, the system remains as it is now. If the Chamber rejects this bill, the system will remain as it is today, but we do not have the perspective of: in three years' time I want the sector and the suppliers to be there and then these are patients' rights. Period. If the Chamber adopts this bill, we have in the meantime arranged a number of things that we all want to settle anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u4	We'll talk about that later. I think the Minister is doing a little more than just saying: we leave the situation as it is now. I think she is actually giving carte blanche to leave the situation in that generic consent. In what way will we be guaranteed that all these generic authorisations will expire? Does that specified consent need to be given again? How can we guarantee that everything that is apparently given in a generic way, but which I do not think is legally possible, will not continue under this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u5	No, the question is specific. A doctor must therefore specifically ask for permission. The only thing is that you can now say with one 'yes': I want everyone involved in my treatment to be able to look at my file without giving permission to everyone. You can say that with one "yes" now. With the specified permission you can say: GP Jansen is fine with me, but those Pietersen I find such an annoying guy, who should not look in my data. You can do that in three years. We believe that patients who wish to do so should actually be able to give that specified consent. We cannot do that now. If the bill is rejected, we don't realize it either. If the legislative proposal is adopted, we will know that there is a route and that it will be completed in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u6	But again...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u7	I'd like to go through the chairman, Mrs. Gerkens. There is another chairman here now, but it is still the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u8	It's also because I'm in a different place. I'm gonna have to learn a little bit better. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. My final question is: why allow generic consent over the next three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u9	It's already possible. It's the way it is now: you have to ask specific questions to a patient, but he or she can just say: yes, you can share my data. We think that it should be possible to do better. We are putting this process in place so that in three years' time the adoption of the legislative proposal will actually improve. If the bill is not passed, I am sure of one thing: we will not be there in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u10	Before we talk about deadlines, I do need a little more clarity. Can the Minister answer our questions about that specified consent? What exactly is that? Can the Minister reduce the confusion about this? How are we gonna do that? How do we ensure that patients can fill out the form on specified consent properly and intelligibly? I also have questions about liability. I think it's important to start with that, because then you know how important that term is. If we cannot settle this in the short term, it may be technically possible, but then the moral criteria are not in order. Could the Minister perhaps comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u11	I'm sure I'll go into that. I'm still working on my introduction. I'll deal with the various questions later. I can say that I did not come up with the term "specific consent." It has entered into the bill by means of an amendment from the House of Representatives. I'll be able to tell you what that means. I just want to finish my introduction. In the first folder are the answers to those questions, but I can say in advance: liability remains as it is. A health care provider has a legal obligation to keep up with your file. He needs to put in the things that belong in that file. He's also responsible for keeping those things in there. Can a patient just get anything out of it? No, he won't be able to do that in three years' time after this law has been passed. That stays the way it is. The patient can add things. For example, he can put in "I tried that medicine, but I didn't like it at all, because I got stomach pains" or "I stopped that medicine, because I got headaches" or "I don't agree with that." That's the kind of thing the patient can add in a separate paragraph. But he can't just take things out of the medical records.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u12	Mrs Bredenoord, one more time on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u13	Can the Minister specifically address the issue of liability? I'm not so much concerned with anyone adding or extracting anything from it. I am concerned that someone who has specified permission actually says: I do not want this data to be shared. Someone may think that data on certain medications are absolutely irrelevant, but later those drugs then suddenly interfere with other medicines. By liability, I mean that someone says: do not take it out of the file, but choose not to unlock it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u14	This bill doesn't change anything. The WGBO simply continues to apply. It already states that a doctor, although he may not be able to look into files, should do everything in his power to obtain the information he needs from a patient and that he may need to look for data that is necessary to treat that patient properly. It's gonna stay that way. That liability doesn't change anything. It's not like the doctor doesn't have the duties he now has on the basis of WGBO anymore when a patient indicates that he doesn't want to share anything. This bill is gonna be on top of it and not on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u15	If this answer is clear on this point, I would like to give you the opportunity to give the Minister the opportunity to get past it, Mr Ganzevoort. Or do you have a point that really fits in with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u16	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. If I hadn't, I'd have stuck around. There has been a different debate today, so there may be less time pressure than this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u17	That seems to me to be the wrong conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u18	At least it's a conclusion that appeals to me. I believe that this point about the wording and definitions, particularly as regards the terms'specific' and 'generic', is essential. The question of how all this is worked out will come back later in the debate. If I understand correctly, the Minister says that the question should be specific, but that the answer is now generic. This contributes to the confusion about this. What exactly are we talking about? Are we talking about specific consent or generic consent? It always has to be specific in the current situation, doesn't it? That's how it's gonna stay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u19	We cannot now record that an insured person says 'I want that doctor and that doctor, but not that doctor and that doctor' and 'I want him to be able to look at my medication data, but not in that and that data'. Of course, a treatment provider can only see in a patient's data what is relevant for his or her treatment. It's gonna stay that way. So it's not like whole files are being pushed back and forth. What is relevant to the treatment is for the attention of the treatment provider. It's still the same. We cannot now record very specifically in advance in a system 'Jansen and Pieterse don't' and 'that is and is not'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u20	The Minister will tell you how it's gonna be done later. That's for later, but what happens if it happens with generic consent? How far does this generic consent go? That's still really unclear for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u21	If I come to a doctor, can he just ask me: I'm sending you to the pain policy of the hospital, do you mind if I share data? That question can be asked by a general practitioner, but I can't have all kinds of very specific things recorded in advance in a system that someone can consult in another place and see what I've recorded. That is not possible, because we do not have the technical possibilities for this. We're gonna want that later. So we are working towards a system in which people can give much more specific consent than they can do in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u22	If a patient now comes up with a generic answer, if, so to speak, he fills in "yes," "yes," is there any limit to consent? Where's the border?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u23	It must be in a treatment relationship. A brain surgeon I have nothing to do with because I'm not being treated with, can't just look into my data. It must be in the context of a treatment. It should relate to data relevant for treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u24	Then where is the limit of the treatment relationship? I mentioned the example of those applications of eHealth. Is there also a treatment relationship? Is that also a follow-up to such an authorisation? There's still a lot of uncertainty about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u25	That may be, because we do not say how the treatment should be given. That can be face to face sometimes. This can sometimes be via an eHealth consultation or via an E-Health application. That doesn't make any difference in essence. You only give that care in a different way, but that does nothing about this bill or the existing situation. I will come back to that later. There's a misunderstanding about doctors in emergency situations being able to look into your file right now, but if you haven't given permission, doctors can't look into your file in emergency situations under the existing law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u26	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u27	The Personal Data Authority, which was very positive about the bill at the expert meeting, sees the security requirements as a major added value of this bill. As long as the provisions on consent have not yet entered into force, the requirements of the WGBO and the Wbp will remain in force. This bill is supplementary. It doesn't take anything away; it only adds things. Healthcare providers should simply request permission to make data available for the next three years. They should inform patients about the persons to whom this data is made available, about the data and the purpose for which it is used. Moreover, the fact that the right to electronic access and registration has not yet been regulated by law for the next three years does not prevent healthcare professionals from offering it, provided that they do so safely. Fortunately, there are already some examples of this. Think of the patient portal of the UMC Utrecht, medical data.nl of MC Haaglanden and the app mijnhuistens.nl. Nictiz's monitor shows that about 25% of hospitals already have digital access to research results. I am still at the question: why don't we wait with the bill until specified consent is possible, as we want it to be? With the delayed entry into force don't I take a shortcut past the First Chamber? No, the road is very clear, and it's ahead of us. The question is whether you want to take this path. By choosing this route, we say that in three years' time we want to stand here on these parts. We now have a legislative proposal that promotes rights, protection and privacy. We're not doing anything about it, we're just doing something about it. So this is a patient rights law. The question is whether you want it or whether you want it to stay the way it is now. You may say that there should be another bill. There just isn't. This bill is what's ahead. The PvdA Group considers it important that I play a stimulating and, if necessary, guiding role in meeting the ambitions of this bill. She wants me to involve many parties and, if necessary, facilitate them. She asks me if I recognise this interest and how I intend to fulfil that role. I will not go into that for a moment, because it is obvious that data exchange must be done safely with respect for the privacy of the client. It is my job to create legal frameworks and safeguards for this. With regard to parts that are completely new to the sector, such as the specified consent and electronic access, I think it is extremely important that we have this stimulating role. I'll fill that too. We have all the worries around the table. Everyone thinks along with it, anyone can report pitfalls. We're going into this trajectory together. I'm not just saying from The Hague: that's how we're gonna do it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In that group, in which Nictiz matters are developed, is everyone who should be there. We have allocated funds for the next three years to facilitate this financially. We support and facilitate the industry organisations, who are busy bringing forward the concept of personal health environment. You may know that the NPCF can do that. We also offer financial support for this, together with the health insurance companies. I also support and facilitate care parties who, together with Nictiz specified permission, want to make it practicable in practice. 1.8 million over three years have been made available for this purpose. Access to electronic copies depends on the implementation of safe authentication tools. Together with the parties in the Information Board, we develop a strategy to implement it in healthcare as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u28	I welcome the Minister's reply, but the expert meeting showed that the umbrella of healthcare providers had not yet been associated with the consultation on the specified consent. At the time, they were the LAV, the pharmacists and the patient organisations. The hospitals, care for the elderly and care for the disabled, which I believe together provide care for many people with chronic diseases, were not yet part of this process. Can I conclude from the Minister's reply that this has now changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u29	That's right. They're all involved now. With the authentication tools, we are also in a process led by Home Affairs. Earlier that ministry wrote a letter to the House of Representatives that the care and the Tax Administration early adopters, so its predecessors I know I am not allowed to speak English and that they are going to create a new variant of DigiD. DigiD is, like, basic security. Then you have a second security. This is a higher security, with which we will start in 2017 in the care sector. Eventually, we want to get to the highest security of that data. There, too, we meet among other things the Dutch Data Protection Authority which states that you should actually have a double identification, i.e. either a password with a text message or a DigiD with a text message-like structure. Do I share the ambition that the patient owns his electronic file and whether I am working on supportive policies and legislation to ensure that there is a safe personal file? I think it is extremely important that the patient has control over his own medical records and that he can choose who he wants to share them with, for example with other caregivers or with the caregiver. I support MedMij from the programme More Directory on Health. The Information Board, in which the whole healthcare sector sits together, has decided to do so. In this programme several parties are united, including the professional associations of general practitioners, care, nursing, home care, pharmacists, patient federations and the government. MedMij stands for a set of requirements, standards and agreements for and through the field to which personal health environments must comply and will contribute to ensuring that health data can be exchanged safely and intelligible and accessible to the patient. Over the next three years, I will also spend extra money on medical specialist care, so that patients themselves can easily and digitally access their hospital records. By the way, every aid worker is and will remain obliged under the WGBO to establish and maintain a medical record. We're going to the patient secret. We have received reports about municipalities, health services and benefit agencies asking patients to request their medical records from the general practitioner and to pass them on to that institution. This legislative proposal regulates the rights and obligations of data exchange between healthcare providers and healthcare providers and patients. It doesn't control what the patient does with it. It's not now. Moreover, these authorities are not allowed to do so at all. Municipalities are therefore not allowed to ask a patient to give them their file. It's already taken care of. Improving the patient's information position by giving him or her access to his or her medical data raises new issues. I think people should have access to their own medical records. That's their right. Mrs. Martens asked for this. I share the CDA's view that authorities should not exercise undue influence to obtain data through the patient. You can't do that. We'll get reports about it, but we can't. The supervisor must take action against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u30	I have a question, but is the Minister finished with the patient secret section or does she have anything else to say about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u31	I've got one more A4 on that. Caregivers are subject to professional secrecy. The question is what arrangements should be made to better protect the data available to a patient. Well, let's be. Authorities can't ask for it. That's one. Secondly, some of you have asked what happens when a patient issues his own data when purchasing an app or just goes online. This bill doesn't see it as such. Is this a problem? That could be it. You might find something on that, too, but I wouldn't know one-two-three what. People can put anything on the Internet. Even now, they can put their medication data on the Internet or drop it off. There is therefore, in principle, no change in relation to the current situation. The draft law does not see this as an issue, nor does it provide for measures to be taken against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u32	Clear. This bill doesn't see it as such. At the same time, there is a problem. My question was not what it was like in the law either, but whether the Minister sees the problem and whether she is prepared to think about a way in which something can be done about it. Now the Minister says: well, it's up to the people themselves. At least that's how I hear it. She also says that pressure should not be applied and that patients should know for themselves, a little bit down the bend I summarized. There is a problem. Even if it's not allowed, people are being pressured anyway. Maybe the minister's gonna come up with the relationship with companies that are gonna run big data, but okay. Patients may ask such companies to start managing their data. However, these companies are not covered by the law. Nor do they have professional secrecy. This can also be pressured legally or otherwise, especially if there are servers in America, for example. Is there anything to do with that? Is that under consideration? That was actually the reason for my question to the Minister's opinion on the idea of a patient secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u33	That's two things. The first point is that authorities should not request it. The Personal Data Authority should therefore monitor this. It also has the tools to act in situations where it is not allowed. I'm talking about the UWV and the like; the cash register was talking about that the other day. It is very clear: authorities are not allowed to do so. This law doesn't change that. It's not allowed. We also see the second point. That is indeed being considered. I'm just saying the solution isn't that easy. Thought is being given to how to combat this and experts are being consulted on it, but we still have no solution. Mrs Martens asked if that would be considered. Yeah, they're thinking about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u34	I would like to continue with the clarification of the scope of the law. If I understand the Minister correctly, it is about the exchange of electronic medical data between aid workers, but also between aid workers and patients. For example, if aid workers send emails to each other or append, or if a patient sends an e-mail to the aid provider, would this also be covered by this legislation? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u35	It's about electronic data exchange. It relates to medical records. This law deals in particular with "pull" - we have talked about this a few times already - but it also deals with access rights in all your medical data. So that's from the patient's point of view. But it's not really about third parties. For example, it is not a question of what the patient does with his own data. This is really about the exchange of information between healthcare providers and between healthcare providers and patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u36	In that case, whether we call it "push" or "pull," is it really about all communication between patient and aid worker about medical data?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u37	No. If I get a referral from a doctor to a medical specialist, the doctor will automatically report my medical situation, otherwise the medical specialist will not know what I came for and why I was forwarded. So these are medical records, the "push" that go with the patient. That doesn't change anything. We are talking here about putting an extra security clamp on this regulation if you want to actively retrieve data. I think it is extremely important that professional groups and sector representatives take their responsibility to contribute, through guidance and information, to the careful treatment of patients, but also to the proper provision of information. Once this law has been passed, this is an additional reason to re-examine it. What does it even mean? Does a patient have to go into something or not? The obligation to provide information already lies with the provider, but it is of course incredibly important that he does it well in the direction of the patient. The storage of data in the cloud is subject to the same requirements as storage in its own environment. Under this bill, medical data may only be exchanged in the context of a treatment relationship and with explicit consent. This also applies to data in the cloud.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u38	I have another question on the previous point. The Minister says that extra attention should be paid to the exchange of information between the healthcare provider and the patient. But is there also an estimate of how much extra time this will take for the healthcare provider? Isn't this at the expense of immediate medical care, because there's a lot of time going into the story around the file?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u39	The health care provider already has that information obligation. He must already make this clear and inform the patient about his rights, his duties and the possibilities. We are trying to develop that the patient himself will be given more direction and can adjust who does and does not look into his data. Then you have a bit of a situation like online banking. When it comes to online banking, a citizen can also determine a great deal. You will be able to access and disable who is allowed to access your data at home or via a portal. That can change at any time; the patient does not have to wait until he sees a healthcare professional. The patient then takes care of himself part of that time. Even so, a caregiver, like now, always has to tell a patient what the consequences of his decision are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u40	Is this going to make the healthcare providers lose more time? Has there been an assessment or a prognosis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u41	No. We have involved all parties in the development of the way we proceed with this. All these parties are at the table, too. For example, the general practitioners are sitting at the table. Of course, we try to reduce the crowds for the general practitioner and for the provider as much as possible and to keep them as small as possible. I can indicate how safety is secured when patients manage their own files. Based on what do I estimate this will be secured within three years? What if it's not? We use an authentication tool at the highest security level. Research confirms the need for the highest level of special personal data such as medical data. On 14 September last, the Dutch Data Protection Authority announced its support for this. The authority writes that DigiD base, name and password, is insufficient. According to the current state of the art, at least two factor authentication is necessary, e.g. DigiD and SMS. The Authority's letter gives the concern the room to start implementing a new authentication tool with a higher level of reliability next year. Its development and application take more time. The three-year deadline is a proposal drawn up in consultation with the field. Three years of delay seems a reasonable period of time and fits in well with the development of safe authentication tools that will become available in mid-2017. I naturally welcome the fact that healthcare providers are more able to work according to the deferred provisions. They are not prevented in current legislation from providing access to files, from giving digital copies or from asking for permission specified, provided that this is done in a safe and responsible manner, in accordance with current laws: the Wbp and the WGBO. I've been asked to clarify the access to big data. All data collections in which personal data is processed are therefore also subject to the Data Protection Act. The data subject should be aware of the identity of the organisation processing the personal data and of its purpose. Processing may only be carried out for specific, pre-defined and justified purposes. The Personal Data Protection Act also regulates the right of access. Only a limited number of exceptions apply, for example where processing is regulated by law or is carried out by institutions or services for scientific research or for statistics. The Personal Data Authority shall ensure the correct application.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u42	I have a question about the previous point. The minister's talking about an authentication device. Will the Minister's commitment be to regulate not only authentication but also authorisation by that means, so that the patient can manage his own file and specify consent through that means?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u43	In the end, we want to go to a situation where the patient himself specifically indicates who may have what information. That's three years from now. In the meantime, we are also working towards the highest level of security in connection with the inspection, so that you know that the one looking in is actually the one you think is looking in and not someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u44	Do I have to think about the direction of a personal care pass, whether or not with PIN code, but still with a tool that allows people to log in at home and manage their own files?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u45	No, I'm not thinking about a care pass. I have communicated several times with the Chamber about the major disadvantages of a care pass, usb-like or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u46	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u47	So I do not mean a pass on which the file itself is stored, but only a pass that serves as an authentication and authorisation tool. So the file is still managed through the electronic system and is not on the pass itself. It's just an access pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u48	No, now we do, for example, DigiD plus text, with which we check it in two ways. In the middle of next year we will make an intermediate step from the current base level. We think this is a basic level, because DigiD alone is not enough; DigiD plus SMS can be. Next year, we're going up to a substantial level and ultimately we want to be at the highest level in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u49	I find it surprising that the Minister allows a somewhat lower level for so long, but I do not want to talk about that. The Minister said that people of all data collected should know for what purpose that happens and give permission to do so. That's right; that's also true. That is why I also had the question in my text: when was the last time you read the general terms and conditions with the app you downloaded? The problem is not so much that people have to ask for permission. The problem is that, without thinking about it, we are giving them permission. We often don't take a good look at the consequences that that has. Shouldn't we protect the patient from this? Shouldn't we make sure that those data can't be given just like that, as it can have far-reaching consequences if it gets into the big data?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u50	What do you say? That a patient shouldn't have his own personal health environment? The patient has an important right to know what is in his file and to make any additions to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u51	The patient certainly does; I agree with the Minister. At the moment, however, you can already get a copy of the file. So if I want my file, I'll get it on paper. There's all kinds of security protocols around that. I have to sign for it, and I'm responsible for it. For example, if I leave it lying on the train, Mr Bruijn can read it and tell the contents to De Telegraaf, if he is already interested. I know. The moment I get that data digitally, not only is there much more possible for me to share it, but it is also much easier for other parties to ask for mine. We've been talking about it being illegal to ask, but we know it's happening. My thesis is that the patient is not sufficiently equipped to realize the risks involved in digital data sharing. Then everything and everyone complies with the law, because then someone has given permission in advance, but no one today reads the privacy conditions or the general terms of an app, because they are almost incomprehensible. Shouldn't politics say right here: let's protect the patient from himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u52	There are already healthcare providers who have electronic access. We are therefore overtaken by reality on all sides. This bill actually raises the current security levels. Next, Mrs Gerkens asks whether we should not worry about something that I do not regulate in this bill, because this bill does not see fit to do so. That's about the vulnerability of sharing your data with apps. I don't read those things either. When I see "cookies," I also press "yes." Experts are currently considering how to do that. It is not so easy to find a solution to this problem, but this bill does not see fit to do so. This bill focuses on the relationship between patient and caregiver and the relationship between caregiver and caregiver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u53	That brings us to the very heart of the debate, because perhaps this proposal should have seen to it that this protection is better delivered. The question also arises as to whether there should be no more guarantees as to how it does now. I don't see enough of that in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u54	There are all kinds of developments going very fast. This bill has been around four or five years. We are seeing all kinds of developments that we are wondering whether we should do something about in the law. That's possible, but that's another question. This looks like another relationship. This is without prejudice to the fact that you can think about the concerns that Mrs Gerkens rightly has: should we not look at how we can ensure more that there is a real decision on the basis of your data? That is a broader issue than just the concern. I think Mrs Gerkens has children, too. When I see what's shared by children, that's what worries me. Those things have implications. This is part of it. In that respect, it's something you can think about, but this bill sees other things. Then Mrs Gerkens can ask if that's not a missed opportunity. Yeah, maybe it could have been five years ago, but it didn't happen. However, the issues that are dealt with here are very important. It is really remarkable that, because people do not have a personal health environment, a lot of things are missed. That's what you notice in people who use the care a lot. The patient's check isn't in there. The patient can't say it's not right. We often see that it is important for patients to be much more involved. The patient knows best what his situation is. He knows he's stopped taking a cure because it gives him a stomachache, and can add that. Then you get a much more robust and reliable file because the patient, or a close friend if the patient can't do it himself, is actively involved. Is that a duty? No, it's a right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u55	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u56	Mr Van Hattem, could Mrs Gerkens perhaps finish her point? That's a little more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u57	I'm not against a patient file. The only question is how do you plan to decorate it? However, I tried to say in my previous interruption, about the generic consent, that many more caregivers are now connected to that whole. Actually, we're already in an undesirable situation. The Minister wants to put an end to this in three years' time, but it will be extended first in the next three years. This means that all this information will become available to many more people and will therefore entail far more risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u58	Then I have a question. This law is aimed at healthcare professionals who are bound by medical professional secrecy. That is the original approach, but does not allow generic consent, open the door to healthcare professionals who are not bound by medical professional secrecy? As the Minister himself said, there are opportunities via apps and clouds to process medical information as well. How far is that really out of the question? I see that risk sneaking in through a side door with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u59	This law oversees the treatment relationship. If you don't have a treatment relationship, this law doesn't apply at all. So Mr Van Hattem may have all kinds of concerns about developments he sees in society, but that is without prejudice to the fact that we have a situation here of traffic between caregiver and caregiver, or between caregiver and patient, to which we would like to make more demands. We want to secure them better and add more privacy to them. We want to get more rights for patients, so we weigh everything up on what's out there right now. And then Mr Van Hattem says: yes, but you didn't arrange that. So Mr Van Hattem is actually talking about a completely different relationship. This is about medical data exchanged between healthcare providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u60	Then the next thing is still important. If information is exchanged between caregivers, there is, of course, a piece of technique in it from the processor of that information. Is the processor of that information, so the commercial company that manages the cloud or other technical resources between those care providers, also subject to those strict conditions? As far as I'm concerned, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u61	Yes. That's no different than it is now. It's not like a processor can look into my medical records and shop in them for a while. You can't do all that. It's already taken care of. That doesn't change. That stays the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u62	There's always one but. They can't just do it, but they can if the patient's broad, generic consent has been given. To what extent is it therefore impossible for an app editor to be able to take medical data in line with the consent given? How far does this extended consent go?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u63	That consent is about people who are subject to medical professional secrecy in any case and who are involved in the treatment as a doctor or nurse. One has a face-to-face treatment and the other does "blended care." That's a terrible term, but it means that you get to a doctor's office and do part of it on the Internet. It's between you and that doctor. It's not about workers. They are not allowed to look into the contents of the data anyway. So they can't do anything with it. What does the General Data Protection Regulation mean for all data that eHealth companies collect and merge about us into big data? The General Data Protection Regulation will replace the Personal Data Protection Act as it currently exists. As of 25 May 2018, the avg will apply directly in all Member States. The exact consequences of that general data protection regulation are currently being mapped out. The same goes for big data. Data on a person's health may also be processed on the basis of the avg. The restrictions that apply to them correspond to the restrictions that apply under the Wbp. The Regulation also provides safeguards in relation to big data, such as in Article 22: "Citizens have the right not to be subject to a purely automated processing, including profiling, based decision (data analytics, big data).' The Regulation also provides for more rights for data subjects and for the right to forgetfulness in Article 17. That means they have the right to be removed from databases. Articles 15 and 16 give the right of access to data subjects and the right to rectification of inaccurate personal data. The conclusion seems to be that the avg leaves sufficient room for national regulation as proposed and also that the avg guarantees. It is noted that the Law on the Medical Treatment Agreement and the Data Protection Act provided for the possibility for medical and patient to arrange it together. Now everything would be in the patient's hands. Asked how I see that. The core of the bill is that the patient can get more control over his data. However, that does not have to be done. It is not the case that everyone suddenly needs to manage their own data or have a personal health environment. Caregivers remain legally responsible for keeping a medical record. In addition, care providers play a major role in informing patients about their rights. The legislative proposal complements the rights and obligations already contained in existing laws. Asked is how I ensure that all Dutch people get a good idea of the content and meaning of this bill and that they are well supervised in the choices they can make. The PvdA asked how we prevent people from becoming dependent on the views and willingness of an individual healthcare provider to make medical data available to other care providers involved with the client, and to make information electronically available to clients. It is very important that healthcare providers and patients know their rights and obligations in electronic data exchange. That is why, with the domes, I want to focus on good information when the law has been passed by the Chamber. Healthcare providers will be given an important role under this bill in informing patients about their rights if medical data is exchanged electronically. In order to prevent caregivers from over-influenceing patients, they should not be the only source of information. For specified consent, informing providers and patients is part of the plan. What is the difference between specific consent and specified consent? In case of specific consent, the client consents on the basis of specific information. It must be clear which processing of which data will take place for what purpose. On the basis of that specific information, the patient expressly consents. That permission can be generic. In fact, the patient can simply give "yes, I agree" permission to make all data about him or her available, without restrictions, for the access of certain affiliated healthcare providers in an electronic exchange system. With specified permission, a single "yes, I agree" is not enough. It is required that the client explicitly indicates which data are made available to which healthcare providers with whom he has or receives a treatment relationship. The term "specific consent" has been chosen following the amendment tabled by Mr Bruins Slot. That's how this term came into the law. In the case of specified consent, the patient should therefore specify whether this healthcare provider may make all, or certain, data available and to which healthcare providers or categories of healthcare providers he may make that data available. Specifyed consent is further developed in a care-wide program in which ActiZ, InEen, KNMG, KNMP, LHV, NPCF and NVZ are facilitated by the Ministry of VWS and Nictiz. The starting point is a workable interpretation. The question of consent cannot therefore be answered with a simple yes or no. The patient should specify the data he makes available to which healthcare providers. Of course, the patient may consent to all healthcare providers. So you just have to put all those boxes on yes. Asked is how I can ensure that the patient remains clear and unambiguous about which caregivers and information he has given permission, even if he gives broad consent. I have already indicated that the healthcare provider now and later has the task of informing the patient about the consequences of whether or not permission is granted. It is possible that the patient decides that he wants to give permission to exchange all medical data with all healthcare providers. So you can check all those boxes. That is not the same as generic consent, but the result is the same. The added value of specified consent lies in the fact that the patient has explicitly agreed to make available for certain categories of healthcare providers and for certain data. That's what he's doing on purpose. Eventually, you need to get that overview in, for example, one of those consent portals that the field is thinking about right now. The next step could be dynamic consent. D66 already called attention to that. This means that you can change this easily, anywhere and even just in advance via an app. You can always change, but the important thing is that you also have access to the system to do so. In the end, that is one step-by-step development.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u64	I'm gonna have to point out something to the Minister. She's already used the example of an app several times. However, nothing is more unsafe than an app, especially where a public Wi-Fi network is concerned. If we really want to go to security level STORK 4, an app will not be the right solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u65	Something similar to an app, which you carry with you and which you could operate over your phone, will eventually result in you having something that you can dynamically adjust, at the moment and without the healthcare provider, without having to do so via the portal. Currently, the field parties are working on a consent portal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u66	You could indeed think of a form of dynamic consent, in which patients can change their preferences at any time. Then you are sure that they do so via a secure system, safe in terms of privacy, but also safe in the sense that people understand what they are changing. If you change a check mark at home, there must be some kind of warning in the system: watch out, this and these may be the consequences of changing a check mark. So something must be built into that system that ensures that people know what they are changing and what its implications are. I'm really worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u67	The demands on such a portal are also quite decent. Firstly, such a portal should provide a very clear overview. If I don't see the forest through the trees, then I don't get a good overview of what I did and what I didn't do. There must also be good information, such that it pops up when you click something, so that you know what your choice means. It is not for nothing that a few years is taken to develop this step-by-step. Six umc's are already further, because you can already look at the results and the like through the portals. The seventh one's gonna hook up pretty soon. The intention is to develop these portals properly. Information must also be included. If you don't have a caregiver sitting in front of you who can tell you, then the portal should.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u68	I'm working in one of the umc's myself. I like the development of the patient portals. I can see that, too. I would like to make the point that even the portals that have been developed are still very incomplete. The imaging diagnostics aren't in the portals yet. The portals can't communicate with each other either. With everything that is said about it, the portals are still very incomplete and immature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u69	That is why I believe that we should take more direction in this respect, because it is not appropriate for every hospital in this country to develop its own portal with which the other portals have no connection because they are all something else. Imagine having a different pupation at the LUMC than at the Medical Centre Haaglanden. Eventually, by taking control, we want clarity in the portals, also in terms of conditions, so that it leads to the same popping up. We are going for this development in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u70	Can the Minister give an indication of her speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u71	I'm not done yet. I can stop too, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u72	I do not wish to suggest this, but I have access to speaking time for the second time. We want to try to finish the debate before the evening break, but we are going to do it carefully. Can the Minister give any indication?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u73	I'm gonna need another hour, but I'm gonna try faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u74	Do it carefully, because that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u75	I try to do it carefully and quickly. What happens if the specified consent is not possible within three years? Do we keep what we have now? We are trying to move gradually towards this new situation. There will be caregivers who can do it before. That's very nice, but in the end, everyone has to be there after three years. With the acceptance of this law, if it is accepted, all parts go directly into it. Anything that has a deadline goes on the deadline for everyone. D66 asks how I make people aware of their choice if they don't give permission. Do I guarantee they can always change that choice? The bill also regulates the obligation to provide information. The healthcare provider is obliged to inform patients of their rights in electronic data exchange, including the right not to consent to electronic data exchange. The patient has the right not to consent to that exchange. He doesn't have to do that, just like he does now. Now you don't have to. It's an opt-in and not an opt-out. Do I consider it possible in the future for the patient to give consent when someone wants to access the data? Permission is required before the data is made available. Authorisation should therefore be known to the healthcare provider managing the data in order to make the data available. Several parties in the healthcare sector there are also patients and safety experts at the hospital, facilitated by the Ministry, looking for a method in which the patient can give prior consent, for example via an internet portal. In addition, a good thought is also being given to the possibility of giving consent only at the time of the provision of care. That all depends on how safe you can do that. The further the technology goes, the safer and more flexible it goes. In this respect, we are striving for the highest level of safety. What is the current situation with regard to the implementation of the articles being timed? Various parties in the care are, by us facilitated, looking for a method in which the patient can give prior consent, for example via an internet portal. The business plan will be ready in November. Beginning 2017 will start. Then it turns out that it also works in practice. That's the proof of concept. The relevant articles are expected to enter into force three years after the entry into force of the legislative proposal. The Home Secretary is working hard on authentication tools for citizens. He recently sent a letter to the House of Representatives on the progress of the programme Impulse electronic identification (eID). On 29 September, the Minister will discuss this with the House of Representatives. The cabinet has chosen to gradually shape the implication and to launch a centrally controlled programmatic operation on 1 October, for the duration of two years. This eID programme should ensure that by October 2018 at the latest, all service providers in the citizen service number domain are, in principle, able to accept large-scale access to their digital services to all means of logging authorised by the Minister of the Interior. I trust, in view of these developments, that in three years' time, after the entry into force of this law, the means of authentication at a high level of reliability will be available. On what basis do I base that the specified consent will be available after three years? The three-year period was established after consultation with the parties involved in the elaboration of the specified consent. How do we ensure that less self-reliant patients are protected and that caregivers are not restricted in providing care to this group? If the patient himself cannot or does not want to conduct a directing exercise, which applies to a very large number of patients, then the care provider remains responsible for responsible care under the WGBO, including for obtaining the necessary information. This bill also benefits vulnerable patients, such as low-literate patients and less mature patients. They also benefit from the security requirements and the strengthening of patients' rights. Good information and support for these target groups is essential in order to achieve any rights. With regard to the rights of these clients, it will therefore be necessary to provide information that is in keeping with their experience. For certain groups of patients, such as dementias or demented patients, the rights deriving from this bill may be exercised by the legal representative. Can the Minister promise that the management of his own file will become a right and not a duty? Yeah, I can say that for sure. The management of the own file is a right of the patient. That's not gonna be a duty. Healthcare providers have a duty to keep records. If the patient does not want to or cannot direct himself, the care provider remains responsible for responsible care under the WGBO, including for obtaining the necessary information. How does the electronic data exchange in which the patient is directed relate to the professional's file obligation? Actually, I've already said that. The patient will not be able to mutate in the records kept by the healthcare provider, such as the doctor or pharmacist. The care professional is and will remain responsible for the content and accuracy of the file, which contains medication data on the basis of the WGBO. If the patient gets access and can put things into it, you will get a valuable addition and, as it were, feedback in the file. The patient also has the right to add data on self-medication. Then you can indicate how much Ibuprofen you take a week. Then you can also indicate what you are getting at the drugstore, because that does not come through the pharmacy in the file. Then you can also indicate when a medication file is not up-to-date or contains errors. That is a huge step forward from now on. That really increases the quality. However, patients cannot simply mutate data that keeps track of a healthcare professional.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u76	What the Minister says is clear and reassures me. I understand from the Minister's statements in the AO on ICT in the concern that patients should be able to do measurements themselves that are automatically in the file................................................................................................................................................................................. That remark is about the electronic care environment that a patient can manage, but not about the part of the file that is kept by healthcare professionals and that continues to be covered by the file obligation, which is also qualitative. Is that how I'm supposed to read this statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u77	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u79	Then I come to the final responsibility of the personal health environment, the availability, the funding, the accuracy of the data and who is responsible when it goes wrong. The health care provider is responsible for his share. If he forgets to take medication or doesn't put a calamity in it, that's his responsibility. We have drawn up requirements for this in the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act. He can't be held responsible if someone else can just get things out of there. That's clear. The health care provider is responsible for that part. He is also responsible for the existence and financing of a patient file. That's true now. That doesn't change. It is true that, because we need a great deal, we want to facilitate, stimulate and support the progress we want to make to improve it from the Ministry. I have been asked whether I can confirm and undertake that existing conditions for emergencies are not affected by this law. The current situation is that in an emergency a doctor logs in and sees that there is nothing, because no permission. That is already the case. The health care provider needs to look and maybe ask the person who's with the patient in that emergency. This law doesn't change anything about that. We are, not as VWS but as parties, investigating whether there is a possibility of a "no, unless" option, so that you can have that option specifically in emergency situations. That would be an improvement on the situation we now have. Then I come to the response to the letter of Privacy First and their action on the website www.specificaanleging.nl. I replied to that in a letter. Unfortunately, there are still false assumptions about the bill. In the event of a delay of specified consent, explicit consent shall be based on sufficient specific information. We call that 'informed consent'. The WGBO is just applicable. In the case of specified consent, where we are going to work, the client explicitly indicates which information is made available to which healthcare providers. As long as that is not settled, the current explicit consent will remain based on sufficient and specific information. Moreover, a healthcare professional may only consult the data in the context of a treatment relationship. So he can't just sit around looking at files on a Sunday afternoon at random. The fact that healthcare providers would make medical data available to commercial parties via the cloud is not correct. This would break professional secrecy and that would be contrary to the Code of Criminal Law. Furthermore, commercial parties do not have access to exchange systems and this bill is about these exchange systems. If the patient does not give consent, the WGBO will remain in force and the healthcare provider will need to request his information from the patient. A number of Members referred to another bill and asked whether an insurer could eventually look into a file in exceptional situations. This has nothing to do with this law, which is between health care provider and healthcare provider-patient. What is the situation with that bill that has now been adopted by the House of Representatives? We had the Europsyche case, where there was a refund insurance without a payment agreement. The insured person paid Europsyche by transfer, a transfer of the right to reimbursement. The insurer has been able to assess legality in the context of natural policies for decades. We already knew the nature policy that we have known for ten years in the Health Insurance Act in the Health Insurance Act. Under strict conditions, which are supervised by the NZa, an insurer may, in exceptional situations, if there is no other way to obtain that information, look into a part of the file relating to the assumption of that fraud. That can only be, for example, if an appointment has been made. If you pay without an appointment or without an appointment at all, that is also part of the medical record. You have to go through nine steps and write down everything you've done. Before you finish the last step, you can't do the next one. It is very rare for the insurer's medical adviser, who is independent and has a professional medical record, to be able to look into part of the file covered by this supervision. It was not possible in the Europsyche case. It is for the natural policies, because these things do not apply there, but this was for the refund policies. There was a particularly big riot back then. The House of Representatives has asked me and masse Kamerbreed to do something about this. It was asked: how can an insurer not be able to control this? It was considered a disgrace: this was where premium money was spent on fraud. With the bill, which we will discuss later on, I have done nothing other than put the refund policy on the same footing as a natural policy. I didn't add or remove anything. We will talk about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u80	Does the Minister mean to say that there is no relationship? There was some concern that, with the law we are discussing now, we should ensure that the insurer is not allowed in and that the other law does. I understand it's a completely different law for another purpose, but the Minister's formal answer is now that there is no relationship. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u81	There's no relationship. This law ensures the exchange of information on medical data between healthcare provider and care provider and between healthcare provider and patient and not to anyone else or an institution or other institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u82	It could be me, but I don't get it. If it explicitly states that the health insurance provider never has access, how can he have access?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u83	The health insurance company has a legal obligation to check for legality. For example, Europsyche provided care not at all covered by the Health Insurance Act. That should be checked by a health insurance company. If he doesn't, he could get a fine from the NZa. We must enable a health insurance provider to check whether a therapy has been followed that is not covered by the Health Insurance Act but has been declared as such. The health care provider himself doesn't look into it. The independent medical adviser with professional secrecy checks whether the care provided there is care to which an insured person is entitled under the Health Insurance Act. He doesn't look at what condition you have or what pills you take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u84	Is this not really your answer: in principle, the health insurer has no access, except in exceptional cases, such as the provisions in 33890? Shouldn't that be your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u85	No, this bill ensures the exchange of data necessary for the treatment and for the patient's right to access data. The other law oversees how we enable a health insurance company to effectively give its statutory task, to verify the legality of the implementation of the Health Insurance Act. There are all kinds of safeguards, so that there is no relationship between judicial review by the medical adviser and acceptance by the insurer. There are Chinese walls in between and there are no exchanges. At some point, we've had a huge fuss about ghost notes. It all turned out to be written out notes for consultations that a health care professional had not given at all. That's the kind of thing you need to check out. If you want to check that, an independent medical consultant with professional secrecy may look into it in extreme cases, if that is proportionate and if you cannot obtain it in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u86	But it's on the instructions of the health insurance company. That medical consultant won't suddenly think of himself: gosh, I've got to find out. Someone's got to give that medical consultant a job. Even though there are twenty steps in between, in exceptional cases, the health insurance company indirectly instructs it to look into that digital medical file.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u87	But not to see what disease you have, what risks...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u88	But they're watching. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u89	Through the chairman, please. Otherwise, it's gonna get too messy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u90	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. Even if they're looking at the metadata, they have the ability to look. That's actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u91	You can leave a job with someone. You can pay blindly with a blindfold, but in the end you have to be able to check as a health insurance provider whether care has been lawfully provided. For this we have rigged a whole system with a supervisor. That is not new at all; it has been for decades. Someone said here: I can't imagine it applied 40 years ago. I can tell you that it was applicable at the time. The insurer always has the task of checking whether he is paying for something he would have to pay in accordance with the Health Insurance Act. The medical adviser with that professional secrecy only looks at whether something is, for example, part of the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u92	Mrs Bredenoord, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u93	We are going to talk about the other bill. The Minister says that in principle they do not look into it unless through all kinds of walls in case of suspicion of fraud. However, I can only conclude that there is an indirect view. I cannot therefore see this ban on access by the health insurance provider as an absolute ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u94	The insurance company doesn't look into anyone's file. He doesn't have access to the electronic system. The insurance company can request a piece of the file. He can't just look into Mrs Schippers' file, but he can ask for a piece of the file: do you give me the agenda of this healthcare professional, has there actually been a contact between Mrs Schippers and that healthcare professional? If he needs that for fraud detection, for example, he can only ask for that piece. If he wants to see if what is prescribed is actually covered by the Health Insurance Act, he can only ask for that piece. He can't just look into the electronic data system. He, the medical consultant with his professional secrecy, gets a piece of that file.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u95	It is true that 33890 is not something entirely new in that sense. That brings to light something for a lot of people, namely that the health insurance company may see a piece of that file in those circumstances. That is exactly Mrs Bredenoord's point; at least I recognize it. However, it raises the question of the value of what the Minister has repeatedly said: even if you have discussion and criticism on all these other points, this at least regulates the proposal; the health insurer does not under any circumstances look into the exchange system. This has now come to light partly thanks to 33890. The Minister now says: it is, but et cetera. This raises the question of the value of the point repeated by this Minister that we are at least keeping the health insurance provider out of the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u96	It is separate from the system, because the health insurance company can also look into a piece of the paper file. He did that 30 years ago. In the meantime, this has become an electronic system, but the health insurer's medical adviser cannot look into the electronic system either. In order to check for legality, according to that law, he may in the last instance, as an ultimum remedium, if everything else has failed, request part of the file. That can then be turned out and given. He's not going to look in the file. No, he's asking for specific information: I need that piece. The caregiver is kept to give that little piece, and no more than that, that the medical advisor needs for his assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u97	I really have to advise the Minister not to follow this line of argument any further, because it greatly weakens her own position. I'd really regret that for her. She says: no, the health insurance company is allowed to do so and that it is electronic does not matter. What is stated in this bill, namely that he should not be allowed to enter the electronic exchange system, is actually not such a strong point at all. This is not convincing for those who are wondering why this law should be introduced at all. The fact that the health insurance company is not allowed in is losing a great deal of its strength to convince me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u98	Still, I don't see that. This law adds to the current legislation on security, privacy and client rights. If we don't accept this law, we won't be pushed up. On a number of parts that we cannot enter, we want to specify the rights much more than is currently possible. We'll set a path to that. You can also have it regulated by the sector itself. We have the private parties, the WGBO and the Data Protection Act; if you stay in there, fine. Then we have nothing in our hands to do otherwise. This law strengthens client rights, security and privacy. In addition, a sanction is introduced. An insurer looking at the data may not only be fined €500,000 or 10% of turnover, but may also be required by the supervisor to make the public. I can tell you one thing: if the public is made that an insurer has looked into data when it is not allowed, then his entire customer base goes to hell. It's gonna be a riot from here to Tokyo. There are very big consequences to this, which the insurer does not now have. With this bill, that is seriously increased. If we don't pass the bill, none of that will be weighted. Then we leave it to the sector within the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u99	Isn't the essential difference between this bill and the bill we're about to discuss that this bill is about electronic exchange and that we make structural agreements on it? According to this bill, those structural agreements do not include company doctors, insurance doctors, health insurance companies, who do not have access to the customer data of the healthcare providers. The other bill is about individual casuism in which you take one-off action and, so to speak, always receive data from the healthcare provider? It seems very strange to me that this health insurance provider may suddenly have access to the healthcare provider's system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u100	The other bill makes an exception to what we're doing with this bill. With this bill, we're gonna have to settle an increase, with the other bill an exception. That exception is already there for the natural policies and we are going to arrange them for the refund policies. That's an exception to the rule that we weigh down with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u101	Surely it is always an individual provision, an individual case, probably in a system in which the healthcare provider provides the data to the insurer? Surely it's not a matter of giving the insurer one-time access to the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u102	That's exactly what I was just trying to say. There's no entry into the system. The caregiver turns out the part he needs and gives it to the medical consultant. The medical consultant can't just get into the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u103	I'm just taking advantage of the expectation management. I know there's about 45 minutes to second term. There are quite a few interruptions. We're about to suspend for dinner break. Please bear in mind that we will have to go on after dinner. I don't know if you've taken that into account in your schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u104	I'm at your disposal as long as necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u105	That reassures me. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u106	Can a health insurance provider require an insured person, for example for supplementary insurance, to have access to the file? That's what Mrs. Martens asked. The answer is no. What access insurers have to medical information is all laid down by law. They can't ask for access outside, not even as a condition. This bill also explicitly prohibits access to electronic exchange systems. Healthcare insurers cannot circumvent this with conditions for insured persons, not even for supplementary insurance. Can the Minister confirm that the insured person is immediately informed when a health insurance provider has access to information and who is responsible for this task? That's what the VVD's asking. Supervision of unfair access by health insurance companies is invested with this bill at the NZa. If the NZa gives an indication, it shall inform the insured person concerned. These insured persons may leave within six weeks of such notification. What about noticeability when the health insurance provider has wrongly been given an indication? Only the person whose data it concerns will be told by the NZa that there has been access. He can quit right now. Only if an irrevocable fine has been imposed will this be made public. The indication has not been wrong, because then it is already irrevocable. Following the disclosure of the NZa, more insured persons are likely to step in. In the event of an unjustified indication, therefore, some insured persons may have left. Both D66 and CDA requested my confirmation that this bill is only about exchange in systems with multiple healthcare providers. The legislative proposal sets rules for exchange via an electronic exchange system, pull traffic, and for internal systems. Specifyed consent only applies to pull traffic, but the right to electronic access is broad. Can I comment on the desirability and the need for exchange via pull systems? Not all situations require push messages. Pharmacists, for example, have the need for an up-to-date medication overview and that only goes with pull traffic. The reason for this bill is also in the proper regulation of that pull traffic. Pull traffic is applied and customer rights should therefore be properly regulated. Do I recognise that current legislation offers sufficient opportunities for healthcare professionals and patients to share information? Current legislation, Wbp and WGBO, allows a patient to explicitly consent to share his data outside the treatment relationship. The Tan c.s. motion. has given rise to clear rules in case the exchange takes place electronically. This legislative proposal clearly brings added value. The consent should be specified later. This is not regulated by current legislation. This bill gives the patient more protection. Can I reflect on Mr. Van 't Noordende's solution? With this bill, I set the conditions for electronic data exchange. The bill does not focus on specific systems. This also means that for Mr Van 't Noordende, who develops privacy-friendly solutions for communication in healthcare, for example the Whitebox, there are all the possibilities to come up with good solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u107	I hear the Minister saying that the consent must be specified. Doesn't she mean he can be specified, because it's not an obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u108	That obligation is in the law. It's gonna be in in three years. Then it will be so that you can give substantive-generic consent, but you will have to tick all those boxes. You can't just say "yes, I agree" like that again. That's exactly what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u109	Then you're forcing someone to make a specific choice, aren't you? There's not gonna be an option where people with one tick release it all or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u110	That's right, it was in the bill, but the House of Representatives felt it was undesirable and wanted that to be specified. The amendment has changed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u111	Mrs. Bredenoord, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u112	I have always seen it as more desirable that people can then choose whether they want to do it specified, but that it will not be a duty to give specified consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u113	Eventually, you can click everything with yes in a specified permission. You'll have a generic consent. That's what changed the House of Representatives. In the original bill there was also the possibility of a generic consent. It's been taken out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u114	I just heard the Minister explaining the Tan motion. I miss the story that that motion was also meant to allow an individual authorisation. That's what I miss in the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u115	The Ministry of the Interior is now in the process of actually developing that tool. The care and the tax authorities will be the leaders in that. We are therefore also the first to take the lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u116	If that's gonna be the cure, I understand it's gonna have to be some kind of enhanced DigiD. But in our previous question on this matter, the Minister said that the objection to a personal care pass was that there was a risk that people could lose their PIN code and therefore could not use it in certain situations. If you apply the DigiD, there is also a PIN. What is the essential difference between a personal care pass, which may or may not have a PIN on it, and which can also be used with a certificate "DigiD" or the DigiD that always has a PIN on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u117	The minute I want to materialize that health card, I need the PIN code. With a DigiD, for example, I can record in advance which caregivers can look into my file. A doctor can just look at who I did and who I didn't give permission to. If I've lost my PIN, or my health card at all, there's no record of who can and can't access my data. That is a very old-fashioned and vulnerable way. The idea that it is safer is vulnerable, but also because it could be read remotely. There are all kinds of vulnerabilities that are at such a waist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u118	The Minister misinterprets my intention with the care card. I don't mean a health card that needs to be read and which has a file with the medical file in it, but a health card that gives access to the medical file that is centrally stored somewhere. That pass gives an authorization for that. That's the idea. In my opinion, there is no essential difference to a PIN through the DigiD. It is both an authentication agent that can also be used as an authorisation agent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u119	I want to say something about the central storage facility. We don't choose a system. We set framework conditions for systems to comply with. For example, the LSP has no central storage. This means that the general practitioner's data remain with the general practitioner and that of the medical specialist with the specialist. You have, as it were, a highway on the basis of which you unlock it. There may also be other systems in which there may be a certain file storage. We do not prescribe that further. The point is that we are now in the process of developing this DigiD. The DigiD itself is insufficient. We'll put in in between. We're on a basic level now. The Dutch Data Protection Authority says that the DigiD alone is not enough, but that it really needs to be supplemented with a text message, for example. Next year we go to a second level, a substantial level. It's being developed. They're working on that right now. It'll start next year. That doesn't take a pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u120	For the record: by central storage, I do not mean national central storage. The storage can indeed just be at the GP itself. At least it's at a location that's not on the pass itself. That's what I meant by saying: in a system and not on the watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u121	I understand Mr Van Hattem means a pass by which you identify yourself if you put it in or hold it against something, allowing you to change your data. Those data changes stay in the system so it's okay if you just lose them. Then it's in the system and the doctor can see what you do and what you don't. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u122	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u123	Then it's about what's the best way to identify. I leave that to the tech and the professionals. If the professionals tell me that's the best cure in the end, I won't lie in front of it. If they say that they can do it in another way, with, for example, a fingerprint, or whatever they make up to get to that highest level, I leave it to them. So what I am trying to say is that the framework conditions do not rule out a system. All entrepreneurs who develop systems can participate. The Whitebox, also developed by an entrepreneur, can simply be deported and sold. I'm not gonna stand in the way of that. There's room for that. How am I going to prevent medical data from being included in the LSP? The LSP is just a referral index, not a file. Furthermore, I have already said that you can of course request files within the system, but they have to comply with the privacy and security requirements. Can I say that there is no financial incentive to participate or not participate in the LSP? As far as I am aware, this is not the case and healthcare providers only receive compensation for the costs they incur. As previously promised to the Chamber, I will take action if I get signals that healthcare providers feel forced to join financial incentives. Can I tell you what's going on with the procedure of the Association Practical Family Doctors? That case is ahead of the judge. It's up to the Supreme Court to rule on this. I look forward to it with interest. I understand this may take a while, but I can't vouch for how long it will be. The bill only regulates framework conditions and does not prescribe any specific system or obligations for an electronic exchange. If healthcare providers consider that the exchange of medical data is part of responsible care, they can come together to reach a directive or a field standard, for example agreeing on how to exchange electronic data. If they eventually make a directive or a field standard, insurers can take that into account in the contract, but we do not prescribe that further. As regards feasibility, I indicated that the care parties and I have a shared future perspective, in which the patient himself directs his consent profile. So I am also very pleased that the KNMP, the KNMG, the LHV and the NCPF have taken the responsibility, with the support of Nictiz, to work together on a comprehensive solution. In the meantime ActiZ, InEen and NVZ are also involved in the elaboration. Mrs Nooren had asked for that. I'm facilitating this process with a grant. I understand that the parties have a portal in which the patient himself can record, view and modify his consent profile online.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u124	I maintained the Minister's previous remark. A field standard is being developed. It is then necessary to assess the extent to which health insurers are in line with this. Isn't that a little directional towards one particular system? If that becomes the standard, there will be too little space left for alternative systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u125	It's not, but it's possible. You can always do that in health care. We work in care with field standards and guidelines. So it is not, but it is always possible to come to the conclusion in care that good care should or should not be provided. That's what I meant to say. They will then be able to create a directive and then all systems will have to comply with it. That's a standard procedure in health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u126	Is it perhaps not wise, bearing that in mind, to try to rule out too much one direction and to ensure that there are at least some guarantees that there is sufficient room for alternatives? Because once such a choice is made, it will happen that everything can only go towards an LSP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u127	In the end, the professionals themselves are concerned about this, so the general practitioners, the medical specialists and the nurses. They make their own directive. They are supposed to keep good records and have a good exchange. They may, at some point, impose more specific requirements. They can do that. At least I did not roll out one system, which has happened in many countries. Well, there's a good thing about that. You have clarity and you have one system that applies to everyone. After the rejection of the bill in the First Chamber, that is no longer the issue. We are now coming up with framework conditions. Within these conditions, everyone can create their own system. There is also a multitude of systems, regional and various sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u128	Finally, Mr Van Hattem. You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u129	Very briefly, then. I see the risk of a trap. An LSP has already been rolled out so widely, with, I believe, a few million users. Then at some point you get the situation that we're all just going for that system, because there's already a lot invested in it and there's already a lot of users. In that case, there is actually no level playing field for alternatives. If you want to steer it in a certain way, is it not wise to have a slightly more controlling hand in ensuring a level playing field?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u130	I'm not gonna prescribe the LSP, but I'm not gonna forbid it. It is really up to the parties in the care themselves whether they want to join it. It gets really big when a lot of people do it. That's right. If fewer people do it, it gets less big. But I really leave that to the parties themselves. I'm not gonna tell them to, but I'm not gonna tell them not to. How did I get to a period of three years? I've already reported that. That happened in consultation with the field. This period has become the starting point for the journey we are running together. Do I see any possibility of accelerating and deploying at a maximum of three years? I propose a maximum of three years. In three years, everyone will have to live up to it. If they can do it sooner, you can. What I'm not saying in the bill is, if everyone can do it, I'll do it in two years. In three years, it's mandatory for everyone. Anyone who can meet earlier can just get to work and apply it. What happens if we don't make it in three years? Then do we preserve the situation as it is? Yeah, we'll keep the situation as it is. If there is any doubt about the feasibility, I will enter into consultation with your Chamber. Mrs Nooren asked if I could send an annual progress report. I think that's a good idea. Then you'll be there for those three years to figure out what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u131	You say that the bill is important, because the field wants clarity on the direction it should go. Does this mean that, in the interim phase, we should see the bill as a field standard? There is no legally required system. You yourself said in your introduction that the specified consent does not come about without this law, if you leave it to the field, I will summarize briefly. How do we ensure that when parties start operating within those three years as the legislative proposal intends, there will be no discussion afterwards, of: yes, it was within those three years and now it has to be different? Insurers can't send it, you said. Clients aren't strong enough. If it is finished earlier, what are the legal requirements to be met by the electronic exchange?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u132	It is precisely when this bill is adopted that it is very clear which route we are going to take, where you have to invest, where we are going and what steps we are going to take. That's why we're in this process, really bound together. I'm not running this trial on my own. No, we're doing this trajectory together. If settings are done sooner, they can start the way we capture it. After three years, they have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u133	If they get to work, what is the framework for their actions? Do you monitor in the progress group the direction it goes to prevent it from going in the wrong direction? How do you make that happen in line with the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u134	By making investments and incentives dependent on them. Otherwise, everyone's gonna go all the way. That doesn't mean we're gonna get what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u135	I'm a little confused. I think that this Chamber made it clear a few years ago: generic consent is a no-go, we do not. The Minister comes here with a bill. She has spoken with the field of work and her argument for the three-year delay is that the field has indicated that she can have specified permission in three years' time. That'll take another three years. But we have to adopt this bill now, otherwise there will be no pressure and we will not get that far. The field of work would ask for that pressure and for that horizon. But then the minister says if we don't make it, it'll stay the way it is. I think that's a little weird. Then I would like to say to the Minister: take up a horizon. After all, you're really busy. 'Cause then you'll have three years or specified permission or the end of the story. Why doesn't the Minister say so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u136	It's all about getting those three years. But if it's going to be three years and two months, and if it can't do otherwise for some reason, then it's going to be three years and two months. That's what I'm talking about. I don't mean to say that if we don't make it through those three years, it all just stays the way it is and nothing changes. No, we walk the route together. Those three years are very tight and it has to be done there. If we can, then we have everything technically for each other and everything has been realized. We invest and we do everything we can to achieve that with each other. But if we have that after three years and two months, then it takes two months for everyone to have to. However, where we are going and what path we are going is very clear and that is why many institutions, in my opinion, will be working in accordance with the bill before the end of those three years. In the end, after three years, everyone will be in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u137	That is what is desirable and what some parties are asking here. But also look at the harsh reality. That harsh reality can also be that this minister will be gone in three years and two months. The words she is saying here today are perhaps understood by another minister as follows: if we are not going to save three years and two months, we are only going to add two years and then it really happened. I would once again ask the Minister why she has not included a hard final clause in this law over the three years. In those two months, we're not gonna pay her. Everyone will understand that. But I would like to avoid a minister saying: we have to have two more years; do me another two years. I think it would have been a better signal if the Minister had said: after three years it is done, or it is done. Then we really put pressure on the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u138	Exactly, and that's what the bill says. If the Chamber adopts it, the parts of that law will enter into force in three years' time. So the field has to comply. If the field doesn't comply, we'll have supervisors to make sure it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u139	Does that mean that in three years' time generic consent will no longer be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u140	If this law is passed, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u141	Mrs Martens also had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u142	I get the Minister when she says it's been three years and she's gonna do everything she can. And if it doesn't turn out to be possible, then it can't. You can't ask the impossible. But there's still work to be done that it can. Does that apply to the whole and not just to the realization of the specified consent? Does that also apply to the authentication and identification? Is it, like, one whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u143	It applies to all the articles that we are postponing now. On all the articles that we're postponing now, they're going to be in three years' time. That's what's in the Chamber right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u144	So that's common. It's not possible that one thing can and another thing can't. The authentication is of course important in relation to the specified consent and identification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u145	Suppose in two years and six months we come to the conclusion that the net is not working or otherwise, then the legislator has to do something. 'Cause the way it's going down here, it's just gonna go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u146	What we hear now is strange. "Then it just goes in" according to the legislator. The minister says it'll stay the way it is. But what's going to stay the way it is? Do those three articles which are now being phased and postponed, then remain postponed until the end of the day? The Minister says that it will simply enter into force and the supervisor will then have to supervise it. But what should a supervisor monitor if it is not technically possible? Is he supposed to watch for something that can't? This is a very open and vague vision of the future. Maybe the Minister can give us a little more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u147	This is very closed. Freely digitally, the articles that we now postpone will automatically enter into force in three years' time. Suppose there are unforeseen circumstances. Then the legislator must take action and respond to these unforeseen circumstances. That three-year deadline is so important. My plea is that we do not repeat what we have achieved in this area over the last ten years. Let's not repeat that. Let's make sure that the government takes much more direction and says: that's where we're going, this is the process and in three years we'll be there. And then all the deferred articles just go in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u148	The Minister then says that the legislator must take care of something. If the legislator doesn't then arrange it, it may just be that at that time there are again objections or are still in existence, then the supervisor must take care to ensure that it is implemented in this way. But if there are still no such technical possibilities, what should be monitored? Isn't it better to postpone the whole law for three years until we really have clarity about everything, instead of coming up with half a proposal now, which we don't really know where it's going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u149	The main problem with this issue is that there are insufficient targeted investments, with a final picture that is insufficient. That really is the flaw of what we have been working on so far. All kinds of things are happening, but we do not set any more preconditions. The question is whether we can afford that in this rapidly changing time. I say we don't do that. The government must take more control of this and ensure that we do not leave it to self-regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u150	I agree with that point about the direction in itself. The question is what the process will look like over the next three years and what can be achieved in it. The Minister says there may be unforeseen circumstances. I can prophesy today that there will be unforeseen circumstances. I think the North/South line in Amsterdam was a simpler project than this. The Minister thinks it will all be clear in three years' time, but I suspect that in three years' time we will say that we will not. It is foreseeable that there will be technical complications in the authentication process. Take it from me that there will be technical problems with the portal and that sort of thing. Take it from others, because that might work even better. The question then is what exactly are we doing today. The minister says she'd like to take the lead. I'd like her to have it. However, the real direction, on a concrete level, is not in this bill. Concreteisation will come in measures of governance et cetera. It can work with that, and it can build directives and the like. But the three-year period that is now being taken into effect is so full of uncertainties that I do not know what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u151	I really don't see it that way. In order to direct, I do need a law. The sector itself says so. We need to know where we're going, we need to be able to focus on the investments and the steps we're going to take with each other. Of course that is filled in via AMvBs. They're just being hung here, too. That's what it's gonna be. Of course, we have descriptions in the Personal Data Protection Act that state that you have to comply with a good level of security and so on. But that is not concrete, because it can be a NEN standard or it must be "equivalent to it." You'll be all over the mud by then. Here, however, the NEN 710, the NEN 712 and the NEN 713 are very clear. They are not just determined, but they are in consultation with field parties. So that's not just happening outside of everyone. But it's very clear what everyone has to comply with. The social security number means that people have to comply with these things now. But why don't you take a look at this? It's not true. We need to make that manageable. So I think it is very important that we do not come up with general texts, but simply work through an AMvB. You have to be predictable in that. Then you have to tell us what standards you want and how much time you have for that: six months or a year or something else, depending on how complicated it is. And then they have to meet it and we're gonna enforce it. If we don't do it that way, it won't move fast enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u152	The specifications are, I understand, hung on the Wbp. That's what it says, but well, you can explain that further. Furthermore, on my other point, the unforeseen circumstances, i.e. the three-year period, the technical possibilities remain the biggest problem. We just don't see them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u153	If we see what is currently happening in the healthcare sector and how some providers are already well on their way to achieving the goals to be achieved, while there is still three years to go, then I am much more optimistic about that than you are. But we have to put pressure on it. We need to make sure that catalyst really gets there. I can't do that with management by speech in the vein of: "Dear people, make sure you secure your business better." The security requirements and privacy requirements are pushed up, but the same applies to the rights of patients, who are specifically and firmly filled in here. I think that's really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u154	The Minister says that some providers are already very close to what we want to settle. I think that is contrary to what she said earlier, namely that she does not want to prescribe what should be regulated in that area. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u155	My opinion was about the patient's right to have his own health environment. We now have all kinds of files that are in the caregivers' office. You have to ask with the hat in hand if you can please look into your own data. Some caregivers have already thought about the service they want to provide the patient. You should have that information already available, it shouldn't be necessary to ask for it. I agree with Mrs Bredenoord when she says that there can be a lot of improvement in this, but there have been major steps in recent times. That is why I am confident that if we continue to put pressure on the kettle, progress will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u156	The word "direction" has fallen a few times tonight. About our direction: the idea is that the minister will finish her speech before dinner break. We aim at a quarter to seven, then we suspend until 7:30, then we continue with the second term. Is that a workable proposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u157	I'm gonna try. The law states that three years after the entry into force of the law will be evaluated. The First Chamber will also receive that evaluation. I give Mrs Nooren an annual progress report, which I will send to both Chambers. Can I give a response to the expert meeting? Many of the introductions have now become obsolete. Those parties have written to the Chamber that they consider it important that this bill be introduced so that a clear perspective is created. That is because we involve these parties much more in a process that we want to go through together. The parties concerned are involved in the elaboration of that specified consent. They shall prepare this Decision. I am referring to all those parties and abbreviations I have mentioned before. I'll keep doing this. The AMvB will address the functional, technical and organisational requirements of the electronic data exchange. So we do not do that by law, but by AMvB, because then we have the flexibility to respond to new technologies. The AMvB provides a more detailed explanation of Article 13 of the Personal Data Protection Act. The AP was positive about that. The NEN standards introduced therein shall be established in consultation with the field. After it had a say in that, we did not consult with the field again about the AMvB. The field can simply register with NEN to shape the evolving standards. The AMvB will enter into force on 1 July, is my intention. That gives parties time to prepare themselves. They shall be publicly available and accessible to all parties. I do not have any figures on the number of healthcare institutions that already meet the NEN standards. I will return to the Chamber by means of a veil; it is expected that this will be done in October. Can I relieve the concern of ActiZ and VNG? I am very pleased that parties in the field support the importance of safe data processing in healthcare. The fact that VGN and ActiZ want to mobilise their supporters is exactly what you achieve by not delaying the handling of the bill. You're gonna get action all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u158	In the legislative proposal, the emphasis is strongly on curative care, because there is a lot of exchange there. However, the security standards contained in NEN 7510, 7512 and 7513 apply to the whole area of care. On average, it takes a year for you to fully meet all these requirements. This does not mean that it is not safe now, but in particular the AP has said: if you implement the three standards mentioned, we are sure that it is good. Should not parties be more strongly motivated to take all necessary steps? Is the date of 1 July feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u159	We can talk about deadlines in the sense that I think it should be done at some point. NEN 7510 and NEN 7512 must already be according to law; NEN 7513 is new. We have a problem with that, because the bsn in the care already prescribes both first-hand standards. We believe that it is feasible, also because the parties themselves have spoken about these standards. But I'm not going to fight in a few months. I find that less relevant, because there is suddenly a huge alertness to the introduction of these standards. Am I willing to include open source profiles? Wherever possible, care is in line with international standards, provisions and agreements. I assume that in this case the IHE profiles are indicated. Talks are already taking place with IHE, Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise about the applicability of the profiles in the Dutch context. About applicable profiles will be made in the so-called information consultation care-wide agreements with the field. Would I be prepared to investigate the possibilities of significantly increasing the monitoring of electronic data exchange and to inform the Court of Justice of these possibilities? The AP is independent in determining its supervisory priorities. I will talk to the AP to emphasise the importance of monitoring the exchange of medical data. In any case, I asked the inspection to include the monitoring explicitly in its 2017 work plan. In 2016, the IGZ carried out a pilot monitoring of e-Health. The inspection will continue to work on the experience gained in 2017, with awareness of electronic information exchange as a focus. Entry into force of this bill will further stimulate the attention of supervisors. Would I like to send a copy of the commitment I made in the House of Representatives on the subject of research into behavioural culture to the Upper House? I will. The implementation costs are very similar to the way we shape things. You can be burdened. But look at internet banking: you can also make huge savings on charges. Can I do an Actal test? That makes little sense now, because we are in the middle of development. In any case, in the progress report, I will return to the administrative burden, the role of Actal and the moment of deployment of Actal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u160	For the Acts: it was not a copy of the commitment but a copy of the quickscan on which the commitment was made. I assume that's what the Minister means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u161	I have promised a study of the culture of behaviour in the field of information security in healthcare, and I will give you a copy of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u162	As far as Actal is concerned, it is clear to us that such a test is not possible right now. We have asked whether, if there is more clarity, the Actal test can be performed. And if it turns out that some caregivers or health care institutions are disproportionately burdened, then she would like to look again at what to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u163	I was just trying to say that. In the progress report I give an update of how far we are and whether Actal is already enabled or not. Then I come to the investments in ICT and the distance between healthcare professional and patient because you first have to explain how it works. You are consensual in a lot of ways and as a health care provider you must now also explain that information exchange. That's gonna get more complicated. On the other hand, of course, we want to take that up again in part in this portal. It was a bit fast, Mr President, but I think I have answered the questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u164	I propose that we suspend the dinner break and resume the sitting with the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u165	We have arrived at the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u166	Mr. Chairman. Our group would like to thank the Minister for her answers. In the first period, we found that medical data has long been digitally stored and exchanged. Electronic data exchange can contribute to improving quality and efficiency in care. ICT developments are fast, opportunities are growing daily. It is therefore very important to properly regulate the conditions for the protection, rights and privacy of patients and the obligations of the healthcare provider. Even though not everything we would like to do with this law is now feasible, our group supports the importance of setting out a perspective and clarifying what is being asked now and later. We had a few more questions. We welcome the commitments and clarifications. The Minister made it clear once again that the legislative proposal does not change the fact that caregivers should only be allowed to access data relevant to the treatment and that they should not, therefore, simply consult the entire file. We also welcome the commitment that patient management of the medical record will be a right and not a duty, as well as the fact that the Minister has confirmed that the field will be involved in the further development. That is the case now; there is consultation. The number of parties with which the Ministry is in consultation has been increased. We welcome the Minister's undertaking that this process will be carried out jointly now and in the future. With regard to push and pull, which the Minister has also clearly spoken about, we are satisfied with the answers. With regard to the final responsibility for the dossier, we have noted that the patient cannot mutate anything in the healthcare provider's or pharmacist's file. Only the health care provider and the pharmacist can do that. The patient may add information, but the healthcare provider, or the pharmacist, will ultimately remain responsible for his or her part of the content as well as for the funding. That also says everything about liability: if I understand correctly, it is therefore settled. With regard to authentication and identification, the Minister indicated that efforts are being made to achieve the highest level of authentication, that the field expects three years to be sufficient and that work is being done by the Home Office to achieve this. In fact, we have to do it with confidence, but also with the Minister's realistic view that if it really doesn't work out, we need to see how we can solve it. She then returns to the Chamber; the legislator is then the move. Our group can understand that. We are also pleased with the Minister's response to the involvement of international profiles in the security framework. Of course, there is still a bit of uncertainty about the confidentiality of patients. The Minister is right to say that the government cannot regulate what patients do with their own files; that is what the patient is free to do. At the same time, we welcome the fact that a lot of thought is being given to how to ensure the privacy of patients when it comes to big data at company agencies or services abroad, and that this is a point of attention. Our group appreciates that, as well as the fact that data in the cloud can only be exchanged in a treatment relationship, and that the Wbp applies. In short, we can see that not everything is perfect. This is not the case under any law. No law is the way you'd want it to be. I will advise our group to allow the benefits of the law to prevail over the shortcomings that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u167	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the clear answer to the first-term questions. In this legislative proposal, the patient interest is certainly much better regulated by the right of prior authorisation, the right of inspection and the right of withdrawal of consent at any time. The debate here has focused on the need for phased introduction. The reason for this is that two parts are not yet feasible. Arguments to introduce the law now include: the creation of clarity regarding the standards to be met and the systems to be chosen, which is necessary according to the Dutch Data Protection Authority and also according to Nictiz; pressure on the boiler when it comes to developing specific consent and access; the introduction of sanctions for a health insurer who has unlawfully access to an electronic exchange system and the installation of a system whereby a policy holder can cancel his insurance immediately after the Health Insurance Authority has imposed an administrative penalty or issued an indication. The Minister has supported the need to clarify the frameworks for electronic data exchange and, therefore, to bring the legislative proposal into force as soon as possible, even if it is not yet in its entirety. The Minister responded to the Tan motion, in which this Chamber expressed her concerns and her wishes. The bill is not about the digital awareness and ICT skills of communication between the patient and the world around him. However, my group is reassured by previous communications from the Secretary of State for Education that in Curriculum 2032, which he is working hard on, digital awareness and ICT skills are very high on the government's agenda. We see that as a very nice accompanying policy. The personal health environment, as we have understood from the Minister, includes the status "to use only an old-fashioned word" which has been created and maintained by the healthcare provider and which is covered by the obligation to file. This also regulates the quality, or at least that the responsibility lies with the healthcare provider. That part of the area can't mutate the patient, as we understand. The patient can add or remove items in his personal health environment, other than that part of the file kept by the healthcare professional. That seems obvious to my group too, because otherwise there could be dangerous situations. Adding things can of course be very good, but if the caregiver can no longer see who has ever put what into that status and the patient still has a certain lack of knowledge in the medical field, then it could also create very dangerous conditions. The three-year period is very reasonable for my group. Fortunately, guarantees are not a criterion in this Chamber, because otherwise we would never be able to pass a law again. We cannot and do not want to ask the Minister. All over the board consider the arguments for introduction now. I will therefore strongly advise my group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u168	Mr. Chairman. For the PVV, the core of the objection that remains open for another three years remains the possibility of a generic authorisation. Then what is consent given? Many citizens will think to avoid health risks, take it for granted and opt for an opt-in. They will opt for "yes" and perhaps even for the broad generic consent, because you will end up in the hospital anyway; then you better have everything arranged well. Many citizens are likely to agree to this idea. What happens then? Then there is a good chance that they will end up in the rural link point (LSP). This will be rolled out large-scale and with the necessary support. That's a trap that many patients will end up in, like I said, while the LSP is still not really a safe system. The privacy isn't in there either. After all, the LSP is a reference index with decryption in a central location. In fact, safety standards are too unclear for that. The Minister mentions the NEN standards, in particular the NEN 7510 standard, but the expert meeting we had here earlier showed that this is not a security standard, but an information management system. These are two very different things, at least as it has been made clear by Mr Verheul of KeyControls of Radboud University, who is specialized in them. So there are still risks, including hacking, as we recently saw in the large-scale hack of medical records of Olympic athletes at the anti-doping authority WADA. Such a thing must be avoided in patient files at all costs. So I would like to receive a response from the Minister. How does it view this reference index with central decryption and the role of NEN standards? Avoiding decryption in a central location would be wise. We would also like a response from the Minister to the position of the major health care entrepreneurs, such as Philips, who are not themselves a health care provider and who, meanwhile, have a very strong lobby to get this law passed. What's their interest in that? How does the Minister look at the fact that the major health care providers are so strongly asking for the introduction of this law? Finally. The PVV Group has already advocated this: it would like to see a personal form of authentication and authorisation. This can indeed be done in the form of a health card with a verification document. That is an important issue for us in this respect. We would like to see that done in the future. For the moment, we do not have sufficient confidence in this law, but I would like to hear the Minister's second-term opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u169	Mr. Chairman. In the digital age, clarity about the rights, duties and responsibilities of all parties involved in the electronic exchange of data is vital. I have already said it this afternoon: I think we agree on the ultimate objective, namely the safe exchange of data and a sensible direction for the patient. It is clear that my group is in principle in favour of electronic data exchange and certainly digital access. In principle, we are also in favour of steps towards dynamic consent. The developments that are going on, such as the increasing supply of patient portals, are positive, but many of the systems are still incomplete, or are not able to communicate well with each other, or are not yet sufficiently safe, or are still struggling with all these problems. Our concerns with this bill are about the feasibility of specified consent and about the privacy conditions. Some of these concerns persisted after this afternoon. I can only conclude that, in exceptional cases, insurers will continue to have access to the file, also depending on what is going to happen to that other legislative proposal. Even if they are just pieces of file and even if it is exceptional, it is not categorically prohibited. A slightly different context, namely the discussions surrounding the European Data Protection Regulation, already shows that the so-called "consent or anonymize" paradigm, asking for permission or anonymizing, is becoming increasingly complicated because consenting in an age of big data with an incredible amount of data is becoming more and more complicated. The same applies to anonymizing, but that is not relevant here. It has also been said this afternoon: almost no one reads the terms or agreement of an app. We are still three years with generic consent, but also specified permission, if we succeed in the set deadline, is extremely complicated, especially if it becomes a kind of mandatory, which is also a bit pale this afternoon. In any case, additional safeguards are needed. I'm filing two motions. Both motions are about those additional safeguards and about privacy. The first concerns the requirements for the electronic exchange of information. The second is about monitoring it. The President shall: Mr Bredenoord, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Backer, Mr Bruijn, Mr Martens, Mr Gerkens and Mr Ganzevoort proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the establishment of a system for the electronic exchange of medical information should be a priority of safety;]] [[Whereas electronic exchange of medical information should safeguard the privacy of the patient;]] [[Considers that additional safeguards for the security of digital patient data are necessary;]] [[noting that the European Data Protection Regulation requires data protection-by-design in the processing of personal data;]] [[calls on the Government to further develop data protection-by-design as the starting point for the electronic processing of medical data, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] The President shall: Mr Bredenoord, Mr Backer, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Martens, Mr Gerkens and Mr Ganzevoort proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the monitoring of the electronic exchange of medical data should be strengthened in order to ensure the best possible security of digital exchange of such personal data;]] [[Considers that the monitoring and tools of the Personal Data Authority should be stepped up in order to be able to carry out its tasks adequately in relation to developments in the field of digitalisation in healthcare;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Personal Data Authority, to make proposals for stepping up monitoring and budgeting of digital data exchange security and for informing the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33509-O]] [[She's getting No. kst-33509-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u170	Let me be clear: I think it is an extremely complex dossier. It remains a dilemma for us that we are being asked to agree to legislative provisions which are not yet technically possible and that we must already make an assessment of their feasibility. I'm going back to my group. We shall continue to consider the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u171	Mr. Chairman. The Minister clearly states that this bill complements the rights already in force in a treatment relationship relating to the electronic exchange of data and the use of that data by the client. The safety of clients is always paramount, no matter how the exchange takes place. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, it has made sufficiently clear why a phased introduction has been chosen and what is needed to achieve a safe system with specified consent and a three-year period proposed in it to achieve that. We thank the Minister for the passionate way in which she has answered the questions about this bill and have repeatedly made it clear why the law should now be introduced: to give direction to the field, to establish legal arrangements for customer security, to determine how healthcare providers should deal with information among themselves and how they are working towards specified consent as ambition, to define them and thus to direct the field. We welcome the active role that the Minister intends to continue to play, both in realising this bill and in other activities such as working towards a personal care environment, such as MedMij. We also welcome the extent to which it has committed itself to continuing to involve all relevant field parties in the coming years in working towards a system that works and for which there is support. We are pleased to hear that the Minister is working towards a higher level of security for information and that she is trying to give priority to care over the next three years in the activities that the Minister of the Interior is also shaping. We thank the Minister for, among other things, the report she has promised to this Chamber and the reasonable or, rather, the real deadline she will include in the AMvB as regards compliance with NEN standards and other requirements such as the new legal insights and the scientific possibility for system safety. I would like to ask the Minister another question, in addition, of course, to the role that healthcare providers have and hold in order to ensure that they have appropriate information on the meaning of this bill and the choice that can be made from specified consent to tick everything and then achieve generic consent. I think it is important for the government to support this with adequate information, with client information, in which people not only get the information from the provider, but can also deepen themselves. I'd like to ask the Minister to respond to this. All in all, I will give my group a positive opinion on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u172	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I listened to her once. She was going to explain how the generic, specified consent was going to work over time. I have to conclude that it's all a lot of hassle to get all those permissions. Why didn't the Minister make a simpler proposal? I can see that there will be people who will no longer see the forest through all those trees and then simply check 'yes' on everything, say 'yes' on everything, otherwise the medication will not be given. No, you can't, but yes, you will. It happens a lot. This concerns me, and I am also concerned that we should adopt this kind of legislation in this culture. I told you: what a complicated system! That, while there are many systems imaginable in which much simpler specified consent can be given when needed and under the direction of the patient. It is true when the Minister says that this bill does not exclude other systems. I did not argue that either, nor did Mr Van Hattem. However, this bill facilitates undesirable systems. That's what the minister calls "plus." That's a good word: "plus." I call it "minds." The Minister could also have chosen to make it a little more difficult for these undesirable systems and to ensure that other systems that are more privacy-friendly are preferred. Why didn't the Minister do that? The Minister says that we are now going to a substantial level and that we will have it next year, but the report of PrivacyCare shows that we are not yet technically so far. In the meantime, there are patient portals that are insufficiently protected. How does the Minister feel about this? This bill doesn't settle this. Then the apps. The minister says that eHealth apps are also treatment providers. I think that is a very interesting point. What about those e-health apps exactly? Is the developer the controller or is that the one who processes the data? Does the software, so the app itself, based on data that I enter into the app, generate a medical advice? Then the app is the handler? Does the app fall under medical confidentiality or the software developer? How's that? I would also like to know from the Minister whether cluster systems are pull systems. I am thinking, for example, of PharmaPartners, which includes both pharmacists and general practitioners, i.e. in one system. Is that a pull system? I was surprised during the break, because I had my youngest child on the phone. For a moment, I thought she was following today's debate, so she asked: did you follow the debate today? She asked me, "Do you think it's okay for me to have access to my patient file at the hospital?" I explained in a minute what I thought of that and pretty soon she said to me: "Yes, that's not safe, Mom, because if it can be done on my computer, someone can just hack it." It's a 13-year-old kid. It's been explained pretty quickly, but here it takes a little more effort. So this isn't safe. We are striving for security, but in the meantime the Minister has allowed this unsafe situation to continue. That is why I would ask the Minister to give the patient the opportunity to prevent data from being placed in the cloud. By definition, my child is now at the mercy of an unsafe system, even if she doesn't use that portal. Her data is already in there. If the minister had put the patient's interest first, she would have allowed me as a patient to influence whether and how my data is stored and whether or not it is exchanged. So that's another step before the exchange. As a patient, I am now at the mercy of the systems that leave my medical record to the state of the art with the help of this legislation. We are all absolutely certain that it is not enough at the moment. I therefore foresee that people will refuse to share that data because they will not be able to see the consequences or perhaps overlook them, or that people are going to say yes and indeed upload their own data to all kinds of apps and other fun stuff. The pressure on the patient will increase and increase and if there is no pressure, there will be temptation. I would like to draw your attention to the directives at European level, which are now examining how to pay with personal data. That's gonna be a thing later. Then you can pay with your own personal data. Soon it'll be very interesting to pay with your medical records. That's not unthinkable. Even though this bill regulates the patient's right to access or manage his own data, the patient does not get one right: the right to opt-out from the systems that are not standalone. On this side, I would like to ask the Minister to look at the option of giving the patient the right to opt-out from the systems that are not standalone. The Minister should not be surprised that we are not in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u173	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and my fellow Members for the debate we had with each other. Have we made much progress today? Perhaps it is too much to ask if you have been here for two years debating in written rounds and hearings. To get a lot further in one afternoon might be a bit much. To be honest, I have not made much progress with my questions. To a lot of questions, the answer is: "that's about as it is now," "no, that doesn't change" and "no, that's already settled in the law, and it stays that way." Then there is the question of what is extra, so the addition of this minister. Where do we see the profit points, except in my speaking time, which is still standing still? I won't be needing it, you know, those three minutes, but still, I'm saying it for honesty, Mr. Chairman. Then where do we see the profits in that increase? Honestly, I don't see it anywhere. We are then in the steps that are possible, the dot on the horizon and the direction that becomes possible there. Yes, possibly, but I'm not convinced that this law is necessary for that right now. There are all kinds of other possibilities. For example, under the current legislation, there are possibilities for an AMvB and the like to use that direction. Is it in the steps that are possible? In the dot on the horizon? In the direction that becomes possible there? Yes, possibly, but frankly, I'm still not convinced why this law is needed. There are all kinds of other possibilities. Under the current legislation, there are possibilities for an AMvB and such, which can also be used precisely in the direction. Does this law have any danger in it? That's the other side. You can say: it's just a pointless law that adds nothing, but maybe it doesn't hurt either. That's a bit of a question. There is talk of a three-year period. We are told a sausage: in three years' time all these benefits will be there and all these good steps will be taken forward. The three-year period is quite flexible and, frankly, it is rather optimistic. The health insurers are allowed to look into it, albeit only in the agenda, the Minister says. If that only means that the health care provider can be asked by the health insurance company to make a copy of his agenda, then we have not yet done anything about the fight against fraud. Honestly, sending out calendar data at that time seems to me to have had an appointment with that patient, which is the most fraudulent information you can think of. In other words, the health insurance provider really has something in his hands only if he can actually look into the existing healthcare provider's systems. If we don't, we still haven't arranged anything. Or that health insurance company can look into it, and then we have a problem with the law before us, where the health insurance company is not allowed to look into it, or the health insurance company can't look into it de facto, and then nothing is arranged. On these points I am not very reassured that really good steps are being taken. Then where are the risks? If nothing is arranged and if nothing is really added, then what is the problem with this law? For me, this is on a point that has already been mentioned, namely that even though this law regulates that it does not de facto create a pressure in the direction of connecting to all kinds of central systems, to a nation-wide switching point and so on. That's already happening. The moment you get to a pharmacy, you're already being asked about it. This stimulus process is only strengthened by the adoption of this law now, which does support that direction but does not yet build up the guarantees that we would like to see. I have not yet had an answer to one question in this respect. Why does the Minister think it's necessary for someone like me to be in that kind of system at all? I note that there is a rather low profit in this proposal and that my question whether the mountain has given birth to more than one mouse must be answered negatively. It is true that we are expected to see good developments, but that is a rather risky confidence in our view. There is a law which the Minister wants and wants to regulate all kinds of things, which we must say are not feasible at the moment. The question then arises: were the two years we have waited to complete this law enough? Shouldn't we have just waited five years until there was something that would have been ready and that would have been borne by all the direction that the Minister is taking in the meantime, of course, in order to achieve that improvement? Because we don't want her waiting. We want her to take steps and then finally come up with a law that's enforceable. I know that the famous poem that speaks of "... between dream and deed / stand in the way of laws and practical objections" is actually about an unhappy marriage and about the killing of the partner, which you do not want again, "for between dream and deed laws stand in the way and practical objections/and also melancholy, which no one can explain,/and who comes in the evening, when one goes to sleep." But in this case, this law may indeed stand in the way of the dream of a better regulated system of client rights and deed. All practical objections to the power of operation make it very difficult for us to agree to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u174	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the first-term replies. Unfortunately, these answers have not been able to overcome the doubts and objections of my group. As far as I am concerned, the way in which the Minister has dealt with the Whitebox Systems alternative I have put forward is not sufficient. It has indicated that this law offers scope for alternatives, but it is very much the question of how many opportunities these alternatives have. This is a fundamentally different decentralised system, in which patients do not have a centralized storage of patient data, but in which the data are stored in their own doctor's database and in which patients receive a code by which they give other treating doctors access to their data. That is a fundamentally different system. Looks like we're going a whole other way now. In the first term, I referred to the two motions-Tan that were adopted, which were widely removed from the LSP in this house. Within the framework set by the Minister, the LSP still has the central role that this Chamber did not want. My group is surprised by that. It seems very much that we are moving towards a central portal and that alternatives are undermining it. The Minister did not reassure me on this point. I'd really like to get another reaction to this. Furthermore, it has not become clear to my group why we cannot wait until there is more clarity about the technical and organisational feasibility of the specified consent. We have heard from the Minister the three-year deadline, but she has also indicated that there are a lot of developments at the moment. The KNMG has also indicated earlier that there is a great deal of knowledge in this area and that it will also have more clarity about its feasibility in a number of months or a year. So I'm wondering why we can't wait until there's more clarity with this law, so at least we can find out more about what that specified consent will eventually look like. That would also remove a lot of concerns about the degradation of privacy. We've seen the letter from Privacy First before. The Minister replied well. She also referred to this in the first term. But since there is still so much uncertainty about the implementation of the specified consent, I think it is important to be able to clarify privacy to those parties as well. In addition, my group still has a major objection to the fact that there is no complete ban on health insurers accessing the data. It is also unclear what the scope of that information is. What is the nature of the information that health insurers can use? The Minister said that they could see the agenda, for example, but it could also be about other data. All things considered, my group believes that this proposal is not ready to be put to the vote, because of all the uncertainties. We will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u175	If you do not want to put it to the vote, how will you vote? No, that's silly of me. You know what I mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u176	Yes, I get it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u177	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. No, that was lame of me. I will give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, but only after I have asked if she can reply immediately. I see she's nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u178	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber very much for its second term contribution and for the exchange of views we have had today. I have been asked a number of questions. Mr Van Hattem said that the NEN 7510 is not a security standard. It is a standard for information security in care, also for the LSP. However, I did take into account in the AMvB the comments made by Mr Verheul in the session held by the Chamber with a number of parties. That AMvB has been supplemented by a provision on privacy-enhancing measures. We have therefore taken these opinions to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u179	Mr Van Hattem, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u180	The Minister says: we have complemented it with privacy protection measures. But the essence is that it is about the security of the system against hacking and all other possible infringements. Of this privacy is one aspect, but you not only close the general security to a NEN standard. It's gonna take a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u181	Exactly, and we're not doing it with one NEN standard either, but with a whole set of security measures that now have to increase the level of security compared to the situation in which you don't apply those standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u182	But does the Minister not agree with me that it is better to opt for a system where there is no decryption in a central place, which is always a major risk with such a referral index?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u183	I see the situation as it is now. That's what we're assuming, and this is being put on top of that. In the current situation there are systems that are quite easy to hack. This is also occasionally demonstrated. It is therefore essential not only for healthcare professionals to assume their responsibilities and better secure their systems, but also for us to place more stringent demands on them at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u184	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u185	But isn't it better to go straight ahead for a system that's really good instead of for a system that might be a little better, but still not good enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u186	No, we have agreed here, following the Tan motion and the whole debate that preceded it, that the government does not make any statements about which systems are used. We also did not say that we do not want the LSP. We also didn't say the LSP shouldn't be allowed. We have said: the LSP, the rural link point, is not the mandatory system imposed by the government. It's been switched here. The motion then sets out a number of requirements which new legislation should comply with. They have all been designed in this new legislation. Thus, systems will be created that do not have a central referral index and systems that do. We just don't make a choice. We do set a framework conditions, for example, for security. It must be as high as possible to the state of what we can technically do. We arrange that in AMvBs, to be flexible. The first AMvB gets the Chamber in October. We also impose these requirements by setting specific standards. So we're not saying you have to meet a high level of security. No, we say you must comply with NEN 710, NEN 712 or NEN 713. And by the time the technology moves forward, we're gonna be making other, excited demands. We must compare it with the situation in which we do not adopt this proposal. If we do that, we see that this bill is progressing at least in all those areas of rights, patients, security and privacy. Does this make it easier for electronics giants like Philips, Google and Apple to retrieve medical files on behalf of the patient or store them in their own systems or in the cloud? The bill does not provide a basis for commercial parties to make use, for example, of data available through an electronic exchange system for big data research. Consulting data through such a system is only allowed within the treatment relationship and with the consent of the patient. Data available through an electronic exchange system can therefore never be used by commercial parties for, for example, big data. Healthcare providers who would make data available to those commercial parties break their professional secrecy, as laid down in, inter alia, Article 272 of the Code of Criminal Law. However, if clients are provided with their own data through personal health environments, they may make this data available to third parties without the intervention of a healthcare provider, so that data may eventually end up with commercial parties or in the cloud. That's true now, and it will be. It is my job to create legal frameworks and safeguards within which one can safely use the personal health environment. Clients should be well informed about the possibilities and risks. I'm sure I'll take that into privacy protection. As I said in the first term, experts are also considering how we can better regulate blockages to confidentiality. But that doesn't concern this bill. Mrs Bredenoord says that her concerns remain partly because insurers have access to the file in exceptional cases. This bill regulates that insurers and their medical advisers do not have access to the file. In this bill, the fines for those who do, are even greatly increased. So the blockade to look into it is greatly increased by this bill. Mrs Bredenoord refers to another bill, in which, in practice, there may be an exemption for the health insurance provider if a lot of requirements are met. That's not an exemption to look into the system, because they're never allowed to look into the exchange system. Firstly, it concerns the medical adviser with professional secrecy. He's never allowed to look into the system, even under the other law. He may request part of the data from the healthcare provider. So he doesn't look into the system himself, but the healthcare provider will have to say: yes, this is my agenda for that date. Or: I prescribed those medications, or a certain treatment. However, he can never see into the system himself. This law stipulates that he cannot do so and that there is a fairly high fine on it. Additional safeguards are needed. Two motions have been tabled on this matter. I think I'll take care of that right away. We also discussed the motion on letter O in the first term. I am asked to further develop data protection-by-design as a basis for the electronic processing of medical data and to inform the Chamber accordingly. I have already indicated in the first term that I will do so. Moreover, that is something I will have to do, because the European regulation will soon become law. Data protection-by-design is part of this and is therefore also legally anchored. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I think that's a good idea anyway. The second motion is that on letter P, in which I am asked to enter into consultation with the Personal Data Authority, to make proposals for stepping up the monitoring of data exchange, to free up the budget for this and to inform the Chamber accordingly. I am certainly willing to talk to the Personal Data Authority to see what its priorities are and whether this can be increased. It says here "clearing the budget." I don't know how much budget that is. Of course, I have to cover that, too. I shall therefore leave the vote on this motion to the political groups. I would point out that there must be cover for the resources requested in this motion. In any case, I will enter into a discussion with the Personal Data Authority about its supervisory role in this law. I'm gonna admit it anyway. It's complicated. It is also complex because I have been instructed by this Chamber to arrange for patients to indicate which doctors can and cannot look into their files and what data it is about. That'll make it more complicated. So I agree that it has become more complex. On the other hand, with technology, we can also convert that complexity into a clear and easily navigable portal, or a navigable permission sheet. I think the important challenge is that we arrange it in such a way that the patient can see clearly at a glance what they have been allowed to do. The Chamber itself has pointed out that it is important that, if you fill in a yes or no somewhere, you then, so to speak, get a pop-up that tells you what the consequences are. I take that to heart. I'm taking that with me in the development of this. I think this is important. I also think that you should not leave that information to the caregivers alone. They have that legal task. I believe that the government has a real effort to make here and that this information must be strengthened. Mrs Nooren asked for that too. That's my answer to her, too. We need to provide adequate information and thereby support this process. Mrs Gerkens says: it's a lot of hassle. She asks if it can't be simpler because you don't see the forest through the trees anymore. This Chamber has asked to specifically indicate who gets insight into someone's data and what information. Of course, that always gives a certain complexity. The House of Representatives has said that we really do not want generic consent. The simple button "yes, anyone who has to deal with my treatment" becomes impossible. Mrs Gerkens rejected the status quo throughout her speech. I do. That's why I'm coming up with this bill. I don't think the status quo is good enough. I find the status quo of system security, patient privacy and patient rights insufficient. That's why I'm bringing up this bill. Almost all things can already be started with the adoption of the bill. A few things are being postponed. We're not gonna sit around and wait for three years to come. We are going to improve that step by step in three years, with the sector in which everyone has committed themselves to doing so. It must therefore look better next year than this year and the following year. We'll be done in three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u187	We don't see that in the bill. The bill says that it must be done in three years' time and not that it can be a bit better next year or whatever. By definition, this minister continues the status quo. In addition, the bill does not make it much safer in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u188	We've rigged a whole trajectory, involving everyone. In this we take these steps together to make this step-by-step better: with the whole sector, with the doctors, the nursing homes and the hospitals. The government said she supports and facilitates this. We'll facilitate this in the trajectory. This bill has taken those three years to focus and a punishment path to introduction, not to rest on our laurels until the three years are up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u189	In the first term, I asked the Minister about this. I don't think I got a clear answer to that. That is why I repeat the question again. It was about the designation of the regulations. It states that no regulation is proposed if there is insufficient understanding of the enforcement of the rules. Can the Minister answer that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u190	If the articles we are now postponing come into effect in three years' time, there will also be enforcement of those articles. The point is that we are taking the steps to that end now. If I let them go in now, we can't maintain. That is impossible to achieve. We think it's necessary that we take the lead, so that not everyone is doing their own little system, portal and things. We can then do that uniformly with each other, according to the requirements of this bill. That is precisely what gives confidence that this will actually be enforceable in that year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u191	I find that a bit of a strange view of the confidence it can be maintained. I understand that the indication for the regulation states that it must be enforceable. In that sense, does it meet the clue? That's what matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u192	That is why we postponed those three articles. We postponed them because in the process we go through together they are eventually also enforceable when they are introduced. If we had not done so, Mr Van Hattem had a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u193	Wouldn't it have been more logical, then, to say now: we're not introducing the whole law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u194	Then I know one thing for sure: that in three years' time we have not strengthened patient rights, strengthened security or strengthened privacy. If we look back on the past ten years, that has exactly been the case. So I am in favour of strengthening privacy and also strengthening security. That's the whole reason for this bill. Otherwise, of course, I would have left it there long after the EPD ricocheted off. However, I did not think that this was justified. I felt that we should establish these conditions in the public domain and not leave it to the private sector. Who's the handler for the eHealth app? Well, there are all kinds of apps. What matters to me is that the BIG-registered handler or doctor says: "In my treatment you come to me three times at the consultation hour. We'll meet face-to-face. There's also an internet program where you can ask me questions, which I'll answer. So we're not physically together in one room, but you can follow part of that treatment with me when you're at home at night." These are now very common treatments. In the ggz they are used a lot. Then the handler is just the doctor on the other side of the computer who answers your questions or has that treatment session with you. That only happens not live, but also through the program. Then it's just medical confidentiality for that handler on the other hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u195	This is a limited concept of eHealth apps and other possibilities in this area. There are also high-speed fibre connections to which all kinds of equipment is connected. They also exchange medical data from patients at home. To what extent does this law apply to such eHealth applications? This is more interesting than the situation where a doctor is personally involved in its application.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u196	The measurements are coming, where it may already be going to increase, of course, in your file with the handler with whom you are being treated. For example, you're with a cardiologist who has certain measuring equipment. In the future, it will be certain that the data, even though the cardiologist is not looking at it, will automatically enter your file. If things don't go well, there's gonna be a squeak. Then you'll be called in for an appointment with the cardiologist. This will be a method of care that will be applied massively. The handler remains the cardiologist. You stay, on the other hand, just the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u197	Then it becomes interesting, because what is the position of the processor of the data of the equipment, the company that manages and registers the software? That company's in there, too. That company will also have access to the medical data. In this respect, I find this legislation very unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u198	That's no different than it is now. Now there are processors who create systems. There is no justification for them. Those processors are not allowed to look into files, to look into data. That's between the treatment and the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u199	It remains unclear whether these data are properly protected at the time between the patient and the treatment provider, so that the data processor cannot do anything unlawful with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u200	That is why it is so important to strengthen security, precisely because these kinds of systems are going to be on the market massively. Over the next three years, a lot of medics are going to work with that. We can use an AMvB to override security. We do not need to change the law for that. The security of those systems can then, where it can, be raised quite quickly. If this law is not there then we are chasing the facts. That is an important argument for this law. Patients have the right to an opt-out, but for electronic exchange systems, not stand alone systems, you don't have to deal with an opt-in for an exchange system. If you don't do something, you're out of the game, but this is stronger than an opt-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u201	This indicates that the Minister does not fully understand what the problem is. Even if I indicated that I didn't want my data to be exchanged, even if I didn't give permission for anything, I still wouldn't be safe, because the data is in a system that connects to the whole world. With one hack, my data is on the street, even though I've said no ten times. There's nothing we can do about that. It would be so nice if I, as a patient, had the right to say: I do not want my data to be in any way connected to other systems. I want those stored on a stand-alone computer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u202	Especially with the last law we have dealt with here, the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act, we make all kinds of demands to the healthcare provider when it comes to matters that he has to write down in your personal file. Then you can later rely on the fact that these things have happened and that they are well written down. The inspection shall further set out requirements as to what the dossier looks like and whether it contains sufficient information. Those requirements apply to everyone. With this law, we want to improve the security of exchange systems, especially in comparison with the present situation. Some time ago it appeared that the hackers are getting into the systems. So we want to secure the systems better than we do today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u203	The best security is and will remain that one cannot access these systems from the outside. You can do that through a stand-alone computer. This computer can precisely meet the demands made by the minister to the caregivers. I don't run the risk of leaking my data in a hack anyway. The only thing I am asking the Minister right now is: do I have the right as a patient to say that I do not want my data to end up in systems that can come into contact with the outside world?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u204	That's a step back to some kind of paper file with some kind of bogus security, in the sense that your data is safely stored in a locker with a key. Total safety is not deliverable, not even on a stand-alone system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u205	The data is as secure on paper as it is in a computer. As long as it's all in the GP's room, it's okay, unless someone breaks in there. That's what reality is all about. What is happening now is that we are obliged to digitize that data. I can imagine something else, in the sense that this is useful. However, I want my data to stay with the doctor and never go outside. I want my data to be secure in this way and not be able to get in touch with other systems, because then the risk of leaks is by definition present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u206	What you can report as a patient and what we arrange is that you don't participate in an exchange. You can take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u207	That doesn't make the data safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u208	I can't guarantee 100% data security. I can't promise you that either. I understand from Mr Ganzevoort's input that I have not been able to convince him completely. That's too bad. I believe that the current situation needs to be strengthened. This bill provides the reinforcement that we can give at the moment. In the AMvBs we stop flexibility, so that, if the state of science means that we have technology that is more secure than the present, we can increase it quite quickly. We can be very concrete in that. Now we see that the general provisions do not actually work in practice. I think that this bill is de facto a huge advance in a world that is digitising very quickly, in a world that is digitizing too quickly, so fast that as a government, you must also be able to set much stronger framework conditions for electronic data exchange. The WGBO and the Wbp are good laws, but they are not tailored to the electronic data exchange. This law brings that leg back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u209	It is good to hear that the Minister shares our concerns about developments, but the question is to what extent what the Minister is proposing is tailored to all this. The Minister states, on the one hand, that there is a law governing the exchange of information. On the other hand, it indicates that various risks can be reduced with the help of AMvBs, both in relation to the data exchange system and the tools to which I have just referred. How far-reaching can these AMvBs actually be deployed? I kind of lost sight of that. I hear different angles, but I want to be more clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u210	With the AMvBs you can make concrete demands on the field. You don't say, "Your security needs to be in order." You say, "You just have to meet that and that standard." That's hugely important. With the much vaguer description that worked for a very long time, you could not offer the field direction enough. As a result, the outcome was insufficient. Not only do I see concerns, but I also see many opportunities in digitisation. I'm not putting it on. I'm not the one chasing it. It's happening. It's gonna come in on its own. Patients are asking for it and patients are going to do it. Patients are going to measure absolutely all kinds of things themselves. They consult with their doctor, who will be more and more prepared for this and increasingly incorporate the benefits into his regular treatment. You need to find a mix of things you measure yourself and things you can do with each other through eHealth-like applications. I see enormous benefits for the patient and for patient safety with regard to medication errors and other errors. I can see that we need to expand the framework conditions in order to ensure that it all happens neatly. That is why we are making this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u211	That is a very nice answer from the Minister, but that is not what I asked for. I asked for the framework within which AMVBs can be used in this area. Can we use AMvBs endlessly for all possible applications or is there a certain limit to that? Now I see a two-fold picture emerging. On the one hand there is the exchange between the healthcare providers, but on the other hand I hear that we can also use the AMvBs for all possible other healthcare applications. I wonder to what extent there is policy space for the Minister to use AMvBs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u212	It's about standards and demands you make on privacy and security. You can report it in an AMvB. I can't just do that out of the loose wrist, because it's AMvBs that I have to put up with. In October you get the first AMvB. You already know exactly what it will say, because I have told you a few times today. You can judge whether the requirements we are going to impose on the field should be met and whether you consider the introduction period of that AMvB to be reasonable. It's not like I'm gonna shoot a cannon of AMvBs on the field. That's not my intention at all. My intention is to be able to adapt things more quickly with an AMvB to the developments we see in technology. If I did that in the law, I'd have to change the law all the time. Mrs Teunissen says that the Tan motion states that we should not allow the LSP to play a central role. The Tan motion, however, did not assume that the LSP should not be allowed. It says: let the field do it now, the field does it itself so far, so leave that to the field. I do. You can also see that the LSP is not the only system. There are many more systems and those systems are larger or smaller. There were several systems already. There are incredibly many regional exchange systems. I also believe that these regional systems should comply with a level of security and privacy that we, as politicians, as governments, establish. Why don't I wait until there's more clarity? I have argued that several times. If I'm going to wait until we complete it, I'm not getting the result I'm aiming for and that I think I'm going to get with this bill. It is very important for the government to take control of this. We need to clarify where we are going, what the agenda is, where people have to invest, what they have to take into account and what standards they have to meet. That's exactly what's in store.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u213	I have repeatedly asked, but unfortunately still have not received an answer, whether there is de facto work towards a much higher degree of connection. Does the Minister consider that it is necessary for people like me, who do not have a complex medical story, to be connected? It is about the scope of the law and about stimulating it. This law is not about the LSP as such, but is it not de facto encouraged that we are connected to all kinds of central connection systems? I did not receive an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u214	Of course, if you never go to a doctor, the doctor doesn't have any data. Then it's irrelevant. If you ever go to a doctor and you think it is important that the data of that doctor should reach out to certain others, it is up to you to assess whether you want to participate. That is precisely the freedom that this law offers with the opt-in. Someone who has nothing at all never has anything to do with the medical sector, so it won't be relevant there. Someone who has something, but is generally healthy, can say: when I am in Maastricht and something happens to me because I am allergic to something, I like it when I have my data. It's possible. A lot of people here in The Hague live somewhere else and often have two pharmacies or have caregivers and caregivers at home. For them it may be a consideration to give permission. If they don't want to, they shouldn't. Do you have to be connected to a nationwide switching point for that? That's up to you with the permission you give. I have just mentioned a few times the system that is being developed in the Amsterdam region, but I know a lot of regional systems where data is being exchanged. I think that we should also tighten up the standards there. That's why I think these NEN standards are so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-9.u215	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that next Tuesday we vote on the bill and the motions.
