ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Keijzer, and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. The latter I would like to welcome to the First Chamber, not because I want to place the others in a less position, but because of the health of the Minister. We're very glad he's back. I would remind the Chamber that the first term from the Chamber took place on 22 September 2015. The continuation of the debate was initially foreseen for 10 November 2015, but was kept until further notice at the request of the initiators. We have now come to the answer of the initiators and the government in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. As proposers, we naturally agree with your warm words towards the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whom you have just welcomed. On behalf of Mrs Keijzer, I would like to begin by expressing our thanks for all the attention that has been paid from the Chamber to the legislative proposal before us. It has been a while, but in particular I would like to congratulate Mr Schalk on his passionate maiden speech in his first term. I was particularly pleased to do so, since I was able to enter the pension country with Mr Schalk earlier on around pensions and have been able to walk through it. Today, of course, we are going to do our utmost to answer all the questions of the Chamber as well as possible. I think it is right to briefly state how we intend to do this. First of all, I will address the main changes that the legislative proposal brings and the urgency of achieving them. Then I come to the question of the time taken to deal with the bill, the process of drafting the bill and the consultation with the unions. The next issue is whether the desired equivalence can be achieved. I will also pay attention to the Top Income Standards Act, which Mrs Huijbregts in particular mentioned. The next item is the official culture and guaranteeing it. On some of these issues, the division of labour between Mrs Keijzer and I is as follows. It will deal specifically with the legal aspects and I will therefore have to say a number of times that Mrs Keijzer will look into these aspects more closely. My next topic will be the costs and benefits of the bill. Then I will deal with questions that have been asked about labour law in general and the right of dismissal of the Work and Security Act in particular. Finally, I would like to answer a number of questions concerning the pensions of civil servants, mobility and conscientious objection. Mrs Keijzer will first of all discuss the technique and structure of the bill and the relationship with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions. It will then address the balance between employees and employers in the government, the fundamental rights of civil servants, the question of whether the government as a legislator can overrule the agreements it makes as an employer and the requirement of compliance under legislation. Its next topics will be the groups of civil servants excluded by law, the private-law organisation with public authority and education. It will conclude with a short perspective, which has also been asked for. It is a special time for me to be able to defend an initiative legislative proposal in this House for the first time. It was not, of course, the initiative of me or Mrs Keijzer. That was the credit of my group colleague Mrs Koşer Kaya and the former CDA member Mr Van Hijum. In this place we also have a word of thanks to Mr Linthorst, who has been supporting us on this subject for many years. As so often in this Chamber, the debate is about the quality of legislation. The subject of this review is, of course, primarily the legislative proposal before us, but the quality of the current Civil Service Act is certainly under discussion in this debate. Laws should be clear and give an up-to-date picture of the law in force. This is precisely where we believe the Civil Service Act is seriously inadequate at the moment. The picture presented by the Civil Service Act of the employment relations between the government and its staff is roughly the opposite of the actual actual situation. The Civil Service Act dates back to 1929. At that time there was a conviction that the relationship between the government and the officials should be one-sided, but the reality is now completely different. The conditions of employment of civil servants have been established since 1983 in a way very similar to the way in which collective agreements are concluded in the private sector. This reality is not recognised in the current Civil Service Act. The fact that the conditions of employment can only be changed by agreement with three of the four official centres is even hidden in a General Measure of Management or in rules of provinces, municipalities and water boards. That AMvB is also extremely unclear. The requirement of conformity under that AMvB relates to "employment-conditional rights or obligations of individual officials'. Some interpret that the Civil Service Act itself should be understood in this way. So we have seen that the Civil Service Act, since its inception, has made a 180 degree shift from total one-sidedness to so two-sided that perhaps even the Civil Service Act itself could not be amended without agreement with three of the four civil service centres. This far-reaching and fundamental turn cannot be taken from the Civil Service Act. That law still follows that pattern from 1929. In a democratic state governed by the rule of law, legislation must be properly enforced. That can be about small or large maintenance. You know how that goes with great maintenance: it's often delayed because it doesn't seem so urgent, but the longer you delay it, the more urgent it gets. Mrs Huijbregts and Mr Flierman asked how urgent the changes proposed by this bill are. Mr Lintmeijer's question was related to this. He asked if this operation does meet a need. I hope, with what I have just said and with what I will explain later, that I will convince them that the legislative proposal is absolutely necessary. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to mention the five most important changes to this bill. First of all, industrial relations in the government are normalized. This means that there is no longer a requirement of conformity in legislation but, of course, in the establishment of working conditions. Nor will there be a compulsory cartel of three out of four civil servants. They become normal collective agreements with all applicable rules. Secondly, the Work and Security Act will also apply to civil servants. After all the energy invested in a new right of dismissal, which brings together elements of old civil law and civil labour law, it is no longer possible to explain why this right of dismissal should not apply to civil servants as well. Thirdly, all labour disputes, not only in the private sector but also in the public sector, will henceforth be settled by the civil courts. Experts agree that administrative law is less suited to solving problems in industrial relations. Fourthly, the Civil Service Act also applies to employees of independent administrative bodies, which perform important public tasks, but to whom the Civil Service Act does not currently apply. That is what we consider to be highly necessary and overdue maintenance. Finally, the costs currently incurred in transposing agreements on working conditions into legislation will be avoided. Mrs Huijbregts raised the question as to whether a legislative proposal such as this would be suitable for an initiative proposal. I understand that question very well. In our view, too, it is primarily the responsibility of the government to make proposals for what I call a large maintenance of laws. But if, despite motions in the House of Representatives, including the 1997 Zijlstra motion and official reports which show that it is perfectly possible to normalize, the government nevertheless decides not to bring the law to the time, we do agree that there is a possibility that the House of Representatives will eventually take the initiative, as has happened here. There was a demand for the length of time taken to deal with this bill. Both Mrs Huijbregts and Mr Flierman asked for that. I will immediately acknowledge to Mrs Huijbregts that the long lead time was not in any way the fault of the First Chamber. It was caused by the initiators themselves. The fact that they have not always made the same haste was not because they did not consider the proposal important, but because they saw advantages in the chosen time course. For example, when examining the bill in the Lower House, they chose to suspend treatment until the issue of refuse officials had been settled. By giving priority to a separate bill on refuse officials, this issue could also be resolved much more quickly. It is also important that when the legislative proposal was submitted there was criticism of the coincidence with a number of major reorganisations in the government. There is also much less at the moment. But the main advantage of the time lag is that, after years of discussion, it is now clear which dismissal scheme will apply to civil servants when this initiative law is adopted. That is that of the Work and Security Act which entered into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u3	I have a quick question. Mr Van Weyenberg spoke of refuse officials. I'd prefer to call them conscientious officials. He knows. What exactly was the underlying interest in torching off those conscientious objectors first, so to speak, before this law could be implemented further? What exactly was the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u4	There were two of them, as far as I'm concerned. I shall leave the word 'flark' on Mr Schalk's behalf. The first reason is that there were amendments in the House of Representatives which, in the opinion of the initiators, would imply almost a kind of tying of these two very different dossiers. We were not only unhappy about this tying ourselves, we thought he would not have met much appreciation in this house either. The second reason is that we know that, following the adoption of the present bill, it will take a number of years before that law comes into force. By cutting these two subjects, the subject of the refused officials, as I call them, could also be understood by Mr Schalk that they are being caught more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u5	Indeed, I will take back the word "flaring." The conscientious objector may no longer be appointed to that function as an extraordinary civil servant. I understand from the outset that Mr Van Weyenberg will come back later on to the refused officials, as he calls them. Mr President, do you think it is right that we should go further at that time, or would you like the matter to be dealt with now? I will put that back, because I have heard in the beginning from Mr Van Weyenberg that it will come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u6	Answer me, Mr Van Weyenberg. I think that's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u7	I'll say something about conscientious objectors in a moment. That goes much wider than the subject of the refused officials. That is what it was about, because it was a special judgment, because it was civil servants who had a specific function, a specific role. This is, in our opinion, a very different subject from that of civil servants who can also be used in a different way. We consider that to be different because of the jurisdiction of the wedding officer, and we are dealing with this differently from generic conscientious objection in civil servants. I would like to go further at the end on generic conscientious objection, if you will allow me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u8	I do think it is up to Mr Van Weyenberg to decide how he responds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u9	I come to the process of drawing up the bill and consultation with the unions. In the first term of the Chamber, our concern for equality between civil servants, unions and government employers at the collective bargaining table was opposed to the fact that we did not give the civil servants' associations the same position as they thought they had had when the government submitted this bill, namely that the bill should only be submitted if agreement has been reached with unions. Mrs Barth, Mrs Bikker and Mrs Huijbregts spoke about this. Mrs Barth asked the question when was the last time we spoke to the trade unions. Mrs Bikker asked us to reflect on what she called a paradoxical situation. To be honest, I don't see that paradox. We do nothing more than distinguish between civil servants' associations in the negotiation of working conditions and in the drafting of legislation. That's two completely different things. We therefore consider it justified to treat them differently. For us, equivalence in collective bargaining is a matter of principle. Then we are passionately defending the right of unions to complete equivalence at the negotiating table. This bill, with the introduction of real collective agreements, achieves that equivalence. But the role in legislation is, as far as we are concerned, a very different one. With regard to the submission of a legislative proposal, the granting of a kind of right of veto by three trade unions is certainly not normal. At least I don't know any other example of it. As a result of this legislative proposal, the position of civil servants' associations on this issue is exactly the same as that of all workers' associations when it comes to proposals of major importance to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u10	I have a question about this. In his introduction, Mr Van Weyenberg referred to a "cartel" of trade unions. That's something. A cartel consists of parties that together lock down a market and thereby restrict the freedom of trade in goods and services, which we are so keen to see. We want to prevent unjustified things from happening in such a market. It's quite a character when he puts the unions away with the word "cartel." In this way, Mr Van Weyenberg creates a certain atmosphere about the position of the unions in this whole process. So my question is why he chooses such a word. That creates a certain atmosphere. My second question is whether he does not make a somewhat cosmetic distinction. When it comes to collective bargaining, he wants to give the unions the full position, but when it comes to a legislative proposal that lays the foundations for the collective bargaining process, then the unions must suddenly have nothing to do with it. That's weird, and maybe it's a little artificial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u11	I did not argue at all that the unions should have nothing to do with it. In my final remarks on Mrs Barth's interruption, I argued that, in the case of legislative proposals of major importance, the unions should be consulted, as well as other workers' associations. I think that is quite different from giving three of the four unions the power of veto over legislative proposals, which is their interpretation of the requirement of conformity. That goes much further. Indeed, I would describe that as a cartel. As far as I am concerned, this does not fit in the context in which the legislator makes the laws and, of course, consults on them, but does not allow the approval of three of the four official centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u12	Surely it is very common practice in this country that when laws are amended that are very radical for employees, there is consultation with employers and employees. You were just talking about the Work and Security Act. This is the result of the social agreement reached by this cabinet with employers and employees. I do not understand, in all honesty, why you say: we do want to consult the unions, but adult consultation to see if we can come out together or come to an agreement, which we never wanted to have with the unions. This is not in line with the traditions of this country, in which we are trying to involve those concerned as much as possible in legislation in order to increase their support for this legislation. If that support is achieved, it will also help to implement such a legislative proposal properly in practice. Why didn't you ever try to engage in that open consultation with the unions? When you talk about a 'cartel', you already create a certain atmosphere, as if there is no talk or agreement with the unions about the adaptation of their legal status at all. While if that agreement with the unions on this bill had been there today, we could have had a good talk about it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u13	Mrs Barth now puts words in my mouth, as if I did not want to consult with the unions. I didn't say that at all. If I've given that impression, I'm sure that mistake is entirely mine. That's not at all what I argued. My speech so far has not been about the consultation of the unions on the legislative proposal. I'll say something about that in a minute. Mrs Barth has also asked questions about this. My speech was about the fundamental distinction that we see between consulting on legislative proposals and the interpretation that unions give to the requirement of conformity, namely that nothing should be allowed if they do not agree. That's something completely different from consulting. That brings me to the question of what the proposers have done. We have consulted whether, to be precise, the original applicants have done so. But the position of the unions has been consistent that the decision on the subject of the present legislative proposal was reserved for the Public Personnel Policy Council. In it, three of the four official centres can prevent agreement from being reached. Consequently, that procedural attitude of the unions did not exclude that the original initiators had still consulted with the unions on the content. In fact, only one substantive wish emerged from this consultation. It was about the transitional right. That wish for substance was accepted by the authors at the time and incorporated in the legislative proposal by means of a letter of amendment. So we certainly did. Only the fundamental point of the Public Personnel Policy Board has always been that it is for him to approve a possible amendment of the law. That is not the position of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u14	I am sorry that I do not get an answer to my question. Why has there not been such an atmosphere between these proposers and the trade unions that we could have dealt with a legislative proposal in harmony here today? Once again, it is very common for the cabinet to try to reach agreement with social partners on laws that respect the rights and obligations of employees and employers in the Netherlands and that the cabinet is trying to reach agreement with civil society before these laws reach us here as legislator. That's a very normal way of doing things. That is the polder model with which we have been working together in the Netherlands for decades and with which this country has become large and prosperous. Mr Weyenberg and Mrs Keijzer have taken over the bill. Then what is against having another conversation with the unions in order to achieve that harmony? That would have been much better for the atmosphere of the debate here, wouldn't it? The First Chamber received a letter from the trade unions the day before yesterday. Now we are in a situation where we are being asked to agree to a law which, if assumed, will almost immediately lead to an interim action being brought against the government. Here in the First Chamber, we are not so keen on having to adopt legislative proposals that will lead to immediate legal proceedings. We could have avoided all this if, in the process of drafting the bill, there had been consultations with the unions in such a way that it was not about formal dominant positions, but that attempt was made to reach agreement on the substance of something essential such as the amendment of a law which Mr Van Weyenberg himself gave to Mr Van Weyenberg for some 80 years has been able to deal with the civil servants in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u15	Those consultations were held by the original applicants. In doing so, the unions took the view that it was not up to the proposers to submit this bill, but that it was up to the Public Personnel Policy Board, which thus had a de facto veto on an initiative legislative proposal from the Chamber. That's the difference of opinion. The authors had the substantive discussion. The only concrete wish on the text of the legislative proposal, namely a transitional provision, has been met. This did not alter the fundamental difference of opinion as to whether this legislative proposal could only be submitted by agreement of the initiators. To be honest, I think it is a radical position of Mrs Barth when she says that you should not have sought harmony or consultation; no, the unions had the right to block the submission of the initiative proposal, as long as they did not agree. To be honest, that is a radical point of view. I respect the position of the trade unions, but it is clear that we have a different view on this, as well as on the role of the House of Representatives, which must still be able to submit an own-initiative proposal in accordance with the Constitution itself. The meeting's over. Later on, you were addressed to your room. That is also a common practice. But to say to us that we can only table an initiative legislative proposal if we had come out with the unions, I think that is a rather radical statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u16	Mrs. Barth, with a very brief interruption. You have already committed three interruptions on this point, so very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u17	I'm very aware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u18	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u19	I wouldn't have returned to the microphone if there hadn't been some kind of atmosphere I'm not after at all. I am trying to put a number of questions to Mr Van Weyenberg. I find that I can't get an answer to that. The only question I have is what is opposed to seeking the consultation, and then in such a way that it does not lead to letters from the unions in which they deal with court cases. I am trying to establish that there has been a very polarized atmosphere around this bill. I have now asked Mr Van Weyenberg three times why he has not tried to change that polarized atmosphere. I can't get an answer to that question. Well, that's just the way it is. But I don't like getting back that I have radical views. I am here as a Member of Parliament trying to determine whether a careful legislative process has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u20	I'm gonna interrupt you anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u21	I'd be very happy if I could get another reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u22	This care has been exercised by the proposers by entering into the conversation with the unions. But they took the formal view that it was reserved for the Public Personnel Policy Council to do business about this, and in particular with the Minister. That is what I think and I think is a radical position. We have listened to the substance of the matter. Mrs Barth asks why, now that the bill is being dealt with in this house, we have not yet tried to negotiate with the unions. That is because they have never sought to do so in our perception either, for they took a stand in principle. We are, of course, also defending the initiative legislative proposal adopted by the House of Representatives. As far as I am concerned, the fact that questions are still being asked through your Chamber's report is also the royal route. We would have liked the unions to have said: we still have this one and this one, and then we are in favour of it. But they drew a line of principle to the requirement of conformity. I respect that, but I don't share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u23	I'm gonna keep going at this point. I remember that Mrs Bikker isn't here right now and her successor can't ask any questions yet...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u24	Her successor is allowed to interrupt. As a member of the Chamber, he may intervene. As a spokesperson, he's about to have a maiden speech in the second term. He may, however, now place interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u25	Luckily, that makes it a lot easier for him, too. Thank you very much for your clarification. However, I am also genuinely interested in this. Mr Van Weyenberg pointed out that there had been consultations between the proposers. For me, however, it is not quite clear which proposers they were. Was that Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Keijzer or was that their predecessors? When was the last time an attempt was made by the proposers to enter into talks with the trade unions? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u26	Those were the original proposers. At that time, the basic position of the trade unions became clear. At that time we noted one specific point on transitional rights. That was recorded by the original proposers. After that, the unions chose to put their questions first in the Second Chamber and now in the First Chamber with the political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u27	Can Mr Van Weyenberg still tell us when that first moment was about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u28	If Mr Schalk is in my favour, I am happy to give him the date in the second term. I don't have one right now. However, it was at the start of the trial in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u29	I have a supplementary question on what was just discussed between Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Barth. I do not want to detract from the formal law concerning the legal position of the present law and of the unions. Is it not remarkable, however, that a law aimed at introducing equivalence is now being presented here in such a one-sided manner? I'd almost say this is being forced, with all the power of the government. Would it not have been a textbook example to choose this duality as the basis for this draft law, not in the legal sense, but in the material sense, so that there is something that really needs to be done on two sides? Surely this should not be imposed unilaterally by one side of dualism, namely by the employer? It is also a specific part of the employer, namely the initiators of the Chamber. This is not the Minister, but these are the initiators of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u30	Mrs Keijzer will be addressing the issue of equivalence in a moment. For now, however, let me say that for us this is not the role of employer, but the role of legislator. The original proposers of course entered into the conversation. There was, however, the assumption that it was disputed that it would ultimately be possible to table this bill only if the trade unions agreed to it. We have put this other weighting on it. I come now to Mrs Huijbregts, Mr Flierman and Mrs Barth. Can the equivalence envisaged by this bill really be achieved? This is related to Mr Engels' comment, which said that he felt that our appeal to equality of principle between all workers was a heavy one. I would like to point out that, as far as we are concerned, we are dealing with two different issues. On the one hand, that is the equivalence of workers and employers in the government at the negotiating table when it comes to negotiations on working conditions. On the other hand, it is a question of equal treatment for workers in the public sector and in the private sector in labour law legislation. That is the distinction between the role of employer and legislator, which I have just mentioned. I would like to stress that we have two different principles in this regard. The question of equal treatment between employers and employees at the negotiating table when discussing collective agreements, not only in the private sector but also in the public sector, is a matter of principle for us. I would like to say to Mr Engels that we may be very keen on it, but we are doing so because it weighs heavily on us. With regard to the equal treatment of workers in the public and private sectors, we have always had the starting point that it is impossible to achieve the complete equality of industrial relations. We want to harmonise where it can and deviate where it is necessary. It is our opinion that this legislative proposal achieves equal treatment between employers and employees in terms of the establishment of working conditions. This is because the conditions of employment can only be achieved by agreement of will in individual and collective agreements. In other aspects of the legal situation, civil servants and employees in the private sector will be treated very equally. Both groups will be governed by the Civil Code plus all other labour law laws. All the issues covered by these laws can, in our view, be harmonised without objection. There are exceptions. There are three laws that are different: the Civil Service Act, the Works Council Act and the Top Income Standards Act (WNT). They are covered by the other principle. As much as we wish to harmonise, we understand that there are derogations where this is necessary. I would like to add that this is not about new rules devised by the initiators. It is a question of existing legislation. We are maintaining the existing legislation. If our impression is correct, this is uncontested with regard to the Civil Service Act and the definition of the political primacy in the Works Council Act. The discussion focuses on the Top Income Standards Act. On this point, Mrs Huijbregts has said that it is of two things: either you intervene in the wage building, or you normalize the legal status of civil servants. Her conclusion was that political intervention remains possible throughout the wage building. Mrs Barth has made a similar statement. I cannot and will not deny that a law like the WNT intervenes in wages. It is indeed a firm law. This law has gone into several instalments and has not given rise to extensive discussions in both chambers for nothing. It is indeed far-reaching to impose by law on the possible outcome of wage negotiations. We already do this for the minimum wage at the bottom of the wage building for all employees, but the WNT also adds agreements at the top for employees in the public and semi-public sectors. I would like to make two further comments. The first is that this intervention is independent of whether it concerns wages of civil servants with a public contract of employment or employees with a contract of employment. The Top Income Standards Act also covers the semi-public sector, where ordinary employment contracts are already concluded. The WNT already covers two types of employment relationship. The intervention is never unlimited, by the way. There is not only a political weighting, but also a legal one. After all, there must always be real room for negotiation. That's what that transfer number 98 shows. Mrs Keijzer will go into that in a moment. However one looks at the Top Income Standards Act, it seems to me to defend that there is no block of principle on this point, since the WNT already covers many employees with a contract of employment. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there is no fundamental blockage to the proposal before us. In addition, it is good to briefly reflect on the material meaning. The annual report of 2014 shows that the Top Income Standards Act, as it applied at the time, had a limited impact on the number of employees in the classical government bodies that are the state, provinces, municipalities plus a number of independent administrative bodies with a remuneration above the top income. With the classical government bodies, the WNT had little material significance there at the time. The highest monthly salary in the salary scales is €9.098. If I roughly convert that into a year's salary, I'll get about $141,000. There may be some special rewards on top of that, but they will not soon reach the maximum annual salary of the then WNT. The 2014 WNT Annual Report also showed that, according to the data provided by the Ministry of the Interior, four state officials and three municipal officials and common regulations exceeded that standard. This was due to the payment or post-payment of holiday allowances or end-of-year benefits, or to a court ruling. They are therefore not structural exceedances of the standard. But this was still about the 130% standard. From 1 January 2015, the 100% standard entered into force. When I look at the salary scales mentioned above, I keep the impression that this is still at most a very limited number of civil servants, because scale 19 does not meet that standard either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u31	During the first term of the Chamber, we established that relationship with the WNT. In addition, we have said that the evaluation is an important benchmark for us in the assessment. The 2014 evaluation has very disappointed us, because it says that you cannot actually evaluate yet. I appreciate the attempt of the initiators to quote from the evaluation, but I think it will cheer me up if they don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u32	I'm making a sincere attempt to answer your questions as seriously as possible. You are right when you say that the numbers are first shots for a law that then got a follow-up with a stricter standard. In this context, Mr Flierman asked a question about the transfer to lower levels. It depends on how many people at the highest levels are covered at all. On that point, the jury is still out. So that remains to be seen. But we have no reason to expect that these are very large numbers. The more fundamental point is first of all that the WNT applies, at least the two variants that are now law, with or without this initiative law. The adoption of this law does not therefore have any material effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u33	With Mr Van Weyenberg addressing me so specifically, I would like to point out that my questions were also addressed to the Minister. I'll wait for his answer before I come up with a response. But I am listening to Mr Van Weyenberg's reply with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u34	As has already been said, the WNT is already a law, regardless of what this Chamber decides on the legislative proposal before us. It is also good to note that a very large number of employees covered by the WNT are already employed in the semi-public sector, with a regular contract of employment. That group will grow if this bill is adopted. Mr Engels asked for significant differences between the legal status of European and national officials. Those differences will indeed remain. The WNT applies only to the Netherlands. This may indeed mean that a former Dutch official who is employed by the EU will have to deal with a European legal status regime, which will enable him to earn more than the WNT standard. This brings me to a conclusion on the equivalence of employees and employers in the government, in particular on the establishment and enforcement of working conditions. As far as we are concerned, this equivalence with this proposal is achieved, with three main exceptions: the Works Councils Act, the WNT and the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u35	Is Mr Van Weyenberg not leaving a point of equivalence, namely that there is not, in the private sector, a legislator who always has the last vote on the scope of that area when it comes to working conditions? Just now, Mr Van Weyenberg said that the initiators did not approach the unions as an employer, but as a legislator, so that they did not have to hold that agreement-oriented consultation. But isn't that a distinction that can't be made? Because, through budgetary law, Parliament always has the last word in terms of the working conditions area for civil servants. Isn't that a reason why the essential equivalence between the market and the government is never really attainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u36	On the subject of consultation, I used words other than those used by Mrs Barth. But apart from that, Mrs Keijzer is going to go much deeper into this. I was talking about the Civil Service Act, which is essential for the preservation of the civil service culture. This was discussed by Mrs Barth, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Engels and Mrs Bikker. To some extent we agree with what these speakers have said about the value of our current administrative culture and the importance of maintaining it. However, with some speakers, we differ on how these values should be safeguarded now and in the future. We, too, find it almost self-evident that officials should serve their political boss loyally, but should certainly have the space, and often even the duty, to contradict them and to give all the advice they consider necessary for the public interest from the point of view of their official professionalism. The idea of Mrs Barth and Mrs Bikker is that this culture is now secured by the unilateral appointment of officials. Mrs Barth added that if we replaced the one-sided employment contract with a two-sided employment contract, other safeguards would have to replace it. We do not follow the two speakers in that reasoning. For I do not see how the good of the Dutch civil service culture would all be the merit of something as formal as the one-sided appointment. Then something magical would almost happen on the occasion of that appointment. I believe that this is unlikely, because in practice the way in which officials are recruited is already very similar to entering into a contract of employment. We're pretending over there. It is my belief that civil service culture is much more protected by other matters, such as civil servants' and directors' standards of good civil service and good employment, the provisions of the Civil Service Act, case law, and certainly the oath of office, which we therefore maintain as an important part of the Civil Service Act. It is equally important that a culture is not merely secured by legal instruments. This administrative culture lives among all officials and directors working within the Dutch government; it is maintained and transferred through working methods, training, conversations and role models. It is poured into officials in the workplace with the spoon. Mrs Barth was right to point out that one of these standards, which protects public culture, is no longer literally included in the legislative proposal. It is about the standard of good employership. However, as far as we are concerned, this would not create a gap in the legislative proposal. For we have not included that standard again in the Civil Service Act, because it already appears literally in Article 611 Book 7 of the Civil Service Act. This article also applies to government industrial relations under the legislative proposal. Mrs Barth saw a possible imbalance in the balance sheet. It would even mean a tie-up of government with employers in the market. To be honest, we do not share that concern. The standard of good employership already applies through the BW to extremely diverse types of employees and employers, ranging from profit-oriented companies to non-profit institutions and private-law self-employed administrative bodies such as the AFM and DNB. In practice, the judge knows very well how to give substance to the concept of "good employership" in such a way as to take account of the specific nature of the organisation in which a case occurs. However, we share Mrs Barth's concern about the importance of good employership. Re-integrating this provision into the Civil Service Act might be legally double-raised, but it might underline the importance of good employership in the government and contribute to reminding ministers that they are not only politicians and members of the Council of Ministers, but also employers of large groups of civil servants. We could therefore imagine that the government would add this provision explicitly again to the Civil Service Act by means of the Introduction Act. Mrs Barth also pointed out that the legislative proposal did not define what the concept of "good civil service" meant. The bill contains six articles on the obligations of civil servants, for example on integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u37	Sorry, Mr President, Mr Van Weyenberg is now moving on to another subject, while I still have a question about good employership. The reason why our group is so concerned about this is because an employer in the market sector should never restrict the fundamental rights of his employees. It's okay with the government. Those provisions have kept the initiators in their legislative proposals, whether they are about the right to stand as a candidate, freedom of expression, freedom of demonstration or right to strike. In all these respects, the fundamental rights of civil servants are restricted by the Civil Service Act. An employer in the market sector must never do that. If he tries to do that, he'll be in front of the judge immediately and it'll be an end of practice as well. That is why we attach great importance to the fact that good employership of the government is not secured by the general provisions of the Civil Code; it is the principal and essentially a different form of employership. This is also evident from the discussion we had at the beginning. An employer in the market sector cannot say: I am the legislator and I am going to do something without consultation that the unions are not happy with. An employer in the market sector can't do that, but we can. This is possible because not only the cabinet is the employer of all those officials, but also because the members of the First and Second Chamber are. If you want the rights and obligations of employers and employees in the public sector, for the civil servants, to be well protected, we believe that the good employership of the government in the bill must be secured, before you can say "yes' to it with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u38	I had already announced that I would have to refer to Mrs Keijzer at a few moments, and I am delighted to do so. It will take a bold approach to the issue of fundamental rights, stating that these fundamental rights for workers in the public sector may be even better protected than for workers in the market sector. That's a little cliffhanger, but that's not Dutch either. Mrs Barth's position is based on an assumption, while we draw a different conclusion. Mrs Keijzer will be making an extensive appointment in no time. For now, I would like to say that as far as we are concerned, there would be nothing against the explicability of the Civil Service Act. I understand that Mrs Barth gives it a different weight, because she comes from a different starting point when it comes to guaranteeing the fundamental rights of employees in the government. Mrs Keijzer will really go into this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u39	We have many questions and concerns in the good employership. Is that good employership for civil servants in balance? I would therefore appreciate it if Mr Van Weyenberg himself could comment on this because, according to the authors, the provision in the Civil Code is sufficient to ensure that the determination of good employership for the government is not taken into account in the legislative proposal. I am, of course, pleased to hear that it can be regulated by the implementing law, but why was the choice of principle made to delete it in its own legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u40	We have not deleted it, but since the Civil Code applies to employees in the government and this has already been secured in it, we have sufficient reference to the Civil Code. We have only wanted to settle matters here that are not already dealt with equally in the Civil Code. I have tried to argue that there are already many different types of employee and employer relationships covered by the Civil Code, and that the judge also takes into account the weighting of good employership and the nature of the organisation concerned. We have no objection whatsoever to re-entering the Civil Code, but the difference in weight that Mrs Barth attaches to it and that we assign to it stems from the fact that it is crucial for Mrs Barth to restore inequality in fundamental rights. Mrs Keijzer will soon argue that we have a different starting point when it comes to guaranteeing the fundamental rights of public employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u41	You meant the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u42	Yes, just for the Acts: Mrs Barth indicated that I was just talking about the Civil Code, but that I meant the Civil Service Act. That's right. Apologies. Mrs Barth also noted that the bill did not work out what good civil service was. I referred to six articles on important obligations, such as integrity or the reporting of secondary functions. But that is far from exhaustive. Nor is it the case that these articles cover all aspects of good civil service, as was the case in the Civil Service Act. It has traditionally been left to practice and to case law, as is customary in civil law when it comes to the definition of "good worker." In this context, Mrs Barth called for attention to be paid to the code of conduct to be implemented by public employers under the current Civil Service Act. The obligation to do so is maintained in Article 4 of our legislative proposal. We add the possibility to lay down further rules for this in the General Measure of Management. Mrs Barth wondered if, if you want to lay down more detailed rules, that should not be in the law rather than in a General Measure of Governance. However, we do not intend to add all kinds of additional rules in a General Measure of Management. This would also undermine the right of the codes of conduct to exist. We think it is important, I think, that Mrs Barth also thinks that government employers, together with employees, should draw up codes of conduct. We are therefore based on the Civil Service Act as it stands today. In the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal, which included the code of conduct in the Civil Service Act at the time, it also states that the code of conduct is essentially a form of detail, a concreteisation of good civil service. Then why is it that hook for a General Measure of Governance? We saw the potential risk that, because there are many public employers and there could be such a different interpretation of the codes of conduct, creativity would become almost too great, so that the legislator could be too remote. That is why we have included in the legislative proposal the possibility of laying down detailed rules for this in the General Measure of Management, if this would be necessary. Of course, in such an AMvB, these rules must always be in line with the law, the Constitution and international treaties. And they must never be abused in order to settle, through the political delusion of the day, wrong things. If it were really new cases or new additions to an AMvB, I fully agree with Mrs Barth that they belong in the Civil Service Act, but that is not what we intended to make possible by adding the hook for an AMvB. Mr Lintmeijer made an interesting speech on official culture. We can fully endorse that. This led to the question of what the initiators have in store to ensure the individuality of the position of civil servants. Mrs Keijzer is about to speak specifically about this. However, Mr Lintmeijer's question, as well as Mrs Bikker's speech, prompts me to mention one possibility. Mrs Bikker felt that the one-sided appointment of civil servants would give effect to the principle that civil servants serve the general interest. As I said earlier in answering a question from Mrs Barth, we do not believe in the magical effect of the unilateral appointment. But what could well be done is to define the service of civil servants in the general interest and to explicate them in the Civil Service Act. It could even be added quite simply to Article 6. That would be a small supplement, which we do not think is necessarily necessary, but which may be valuable. Therefore, it could be something that could get a place in the introduction law. I understand the thought and the signal by which the questioners wanted to express such an addition as possible. I am primarily concerned that the possibility of such a supplement illustrates that service to the general interest is well combined with a two-sided contract of employment. And that is at the heart of the proposed initiative. Mr Engels also made an in-depth statement on the special nature of the administration and the culture required for it. We can also agree with that. We also believe that the civil service should, of course, remain independent of political arbitrariness or administrative bias. We also believe that the step towards a company-perceived government with citizens as customers will never be able and should not be taken. But that also does not have to be the result of the transition to a private law law, I say, perhaps in abundance. It does not prevent the public sector from maintaining its culture and ensuring that the public sector serves the public interest. In this connection, Mr Engels spoke about the developments he observed in the government. He talked about the "fragmented government." He said the government has become less transparent. He was curious to see to what extent the initiators could link these developments with the standardisation process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u43	Let me come back to the previous point, namely the importance of independent officials who are also willing to argue. Mr Van Weyenberg said that he does not believe in the magical effect of the unilateral appointment. That would be a little overzealous, too. I don't think there's any magic, but then there's the point of the firing rounds. According to the Civil Service Act, they are much more closed and far less subjective than private law would allow. Isn't the Civil Service Act a guarantee for that contradiction? My own experience is that it is increasingly necessary to maintain healthy counterpower in public administration. Are those terminations, and therefore the current approach to the Civil Service Act, not essential?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u44	I'm about to move on to the Work and Security Act. So I'm here to talk about the resignation. I hope that I will answer Mr Sietsma's question immediately. If not, I am happy to see the question. Mr Engels spoke of a "fragmented and opaque government." In this context, I think it is important that this legislative proposal eliminates the difference between self-employed administrative bodies, where workers who are already employed on the basis of a contract of employment, and the rest of the government where the legal status of public law is still the norm. What is even more important is that this bill will make the Civil Service Act really applicable to these ZBOs in future. This is not the case at the moment. We believe that this gap needs to be closed. They also work in the public interest. It may be a little disappointing, I hope Mr Engels will forgive me, but no matter how necessary and urgent we think this bill is, it is not the comprehensive answer to all the developments he has pointed out. As he himself pointed out, there is still a great deal to be done. For all the ambitions that Mr Engels himself mentioned, I think it is primarily necessary for the government to pursue a very good staff policy. I believe that this is a crucial success factor for a government that continues to respond to the major challenges it faces every day. Mr Schalk pointed out that the government should be able to instruct its officials to carry out certain tasks. We do not believe that there is a need for a public appointment, as this is also well regulated in civil labour law. It becomes more complicated when it comes to the independent functioning of employees. I deliberately say 'workers' and not 'officials', because the tension between the subjugation which is inherent in the employment relationship and the professional independence which is desired in the performance of certain functions is also common outside the government. Many professionals also work as an employed person outside the government. It is clear that they must have a certain amount of space in order to carry out their work. I am thinking of teachers, doctors, lawyers and accountants. In the case referred to by Mr Schalk of the Registrars of Municipal Councils and Provincial States, the main point is that they must be able to act independently from the various political groups in the Council or in the States. However, if the Board as a whole decides on the activities to be carried out by the Registrar, the Registrar must, of course, simply carry out that task. I come to the costs and benefits of this bill. Mrs Huijbregts, Mrs Barth and Mr Bikker and Mr Flierman, Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Schalk spoke about this. I would suggest that the costs and benefits have been shown considerably more thoroughly than in many other legislative proposals that I have seen passed in the House of Representatives. At the same time, I think it is important to keep a close eye on the limitations of the SEO study that has been looked at. The SEO study does not calculate the amount of additional money to be made available on budgets for the introduction of this bill. In the study, costs are allocated to the transition process and then added up for all government employers covered by the bill. It is not the case that the costs will be entirely limited to the national budget. They also end up with provinces, municipalities and public education organisations. This is mainly about costs to be incurred in the time between the adoption of the bill and its entry into force. Should your Chamber adopt this initiative law, it is probably the years 2017 and 2018. These costs will mainly be operating costs for which items are already included in the budget of different public bodies. I refer to costs for training, communication, ICT and legislative pathways. The allocation of transition costs to these items does not necessarily mean that the budget lines concerned will have to be substantially increased for the coming years. We assume that the vast majority of the transition costs can simply be covered by existing budgets. The introduction of the legislative proposal will mainly involve a temporary shift in priorities in the case of constant budgets and formations. Mr Schalk and Mrs Barth asked whether we consider the costs to be proportionate or whether there would be no better destination for the amount involved in the transition. The answer to this question will not surprise you entirely: we consider these costs proportionate. As far as a better destination is concerned, I would point out that most of the costs are not borne by the Empire, but by the authorities and educational organisations, which, according to their previous reactions, all support this proposal. It is, of course, important for them and also for the Empire that after the entry into force of the law structural savings should be made which will benefit these public employers. These benefits are structural. The above-mentioned SEO report estimates them at EUR 6.6 to 21.9 million per year. I would add that this windfall will not fully benefit the rich budget; the benefits will come from all the public employers who have also borne the costs. Mr Flierman was right to ask whether the benefits would not be overestimated as some of the officials would still have a legal status under public law. That's absolutely correct. The report takes account of the fact that the military personnel of Defence are excluded, but it does not yet take into account the exclusion of the civilian personnel of Defence and the police. As a result of these exceptions, the overall benefits will indeed be slightly lower. Can I take a swing at that? Yeah, I think it'll be somewhere between 10% and 15%. On the other hand, therefore, there is no need to incur any costs in the defence and police sectors and, as far as we are concerned, the payback period described in the report remains unchanged. SEO talked about between three and seven years, assuming an average of five, and wrote that the payback period could be achieved in three years if the process was properly managed. Mr. Lintmeijer asked if we have an insight into the complexity of the implementation across all levels of government. I believe that, thanks to this report, we can give a positive response to this. The great merit of the report is that it gives a nice insight into what needs to be done. Moreover, in the coming years, where the legislation on adaptation and collective agreements would have to be drawn up, a careful implementation of the legislative proposal could be used. Mr Engels asked about the differences between civil service law and private law law. I also come here to the right of dismissal, which was previously requested. Mr Engels himself mentioned the different legal systems for legal protection: administrative law, procedural law and civil procedural law. I'll mention a few others. There is now a great freedom of negotiation in the private sector. The government has defined the unions with which working conditions should be negotiated and that agreement should be reached with three of the four power stations. In addition, private law rules and case law govern who is bound by a collective agreement and the consequences of the expiry of a collective agreement. There is also a possibility in private law of declaring collective agreements generally binding. The government lacks these rules, because the conditions of employment are ultimately laid down in generally binding rules, which in principle apply for an indefinite period of time. With regard to the right of dismissal, we have already explained in the explanatory memorandum how civil service law and private labour law have grown together over the years. However, at the time when the legislative proposal was submitted, there were, at least formally, important differences between the right of civil servants to resign and the dual system of private law at the time. This system has now been replaced by the new legislation in the Work and Security Act. Experts have noted that this law would bring together the best of both legal systems and that private labour law has moved more towards current labour law than the other way around. Mrs Bikker and Mr Schalk spoke about the difference between an official and a non-official in the event of dismissal, taking into account the costs involved. Mr Schalk argued that the legal status of civil servants could become much stronger than that of non-officials as a result of the Work and Security Act. This could be due to the fact that a transition fee will be paid to civil servants, while a dismissed civil servant is still entitled to a super-legal WW benefit. This would upset the legal position of officials and employees in favour of the official. Honestly, I don't think it's gonna go that fast. The Work and Security Act contains a provision to prevent such imbalance. I refer to Article 673b, first paragraph, Book 7 of the Civil Code. Under that provision, employers shall not be liable for any transition fee if a provision equivalent to the transition fee is included in the collective agreement. For example, these can be claims on a top- or natative WW benefit. In this connection, therefore, we do not have a law asking for repairs, as Mr Schalk said. In my view, the Work and Security Act has already played that role here, thanks to the inclusion of a provision to prevent that imbalance in that Article 673b. I believe that the legislator has done what he has to do. It is also, of course, a matter which must be reflected at the collective agreement table within the meaning of the agreements it contains. As proposers, of course, we are not talking about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u45	In my speech last year it was not just about a super-statutory WW, but actually about three components that can be supplemented by a transition fee: the super-statutory regime, a higher WW and a longer WW. That's actually a sum. That's what the transition fee would be on top of that. The question is, of course, whether Article 673b is intended to fix this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u46	For the second time, I will look into this point further, if Mr Schalk will allow me. At first glance, all the other components he rightly mentions are also covered by what is called a "equivalent provision" in the law. The text in the Civil Code does not express what should be thought of, a super-statutory or a constitutional WW. No, there are all kinds of facilities, Mr Schalk mentions three that can be compared to whether they are equivalent to the transition fee. I believe that the legislation is broad enough, but I am explicitly following this for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u47	I'd love to. I'll get that in second term. Perhaps the next question can be answered. In your own explanatory statement, you indicated that this might lead to a structural cost item. Is it included in those 53 to 186 million, or is it added if there is a structural cost due to the difference in working conditions in aligning the legal status of civil servants with that of employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u48	I don't think it's a good idea to speculate. I will take this question with me in the second term, if Mr Schalk will allow me. Mrs Bikkers spoke about the effort it takes to effect dismissal. In her question I refer to Mr Engels' question on the latest development in the area of inter-polluting legal systems. We see that employers in the private sector have had to make a change since the entry into force of the Work and Security Act. Since that law existed, the Civil Code has had a list of grounds for dismissal that had not existed before. This means that the employer must base his dismissal plans on such grounds and that he or she must support them with a file. The first case law shows that this leads to problems. As far as I am concerned, this is an example of an element taken over from civil law by the Work and Security Act. In civil service law, there has always been a list of grounds for dismissal. Therefore, public employers have long known that they need to have their personnel files in order. The Work and Security Act does not bring any real change for government employers, we accept. I think that we can assume that it will not be more difficult for them to effect dismissal than is currently the case and that there will be no reason to negotiate a redundancy allowance higher than the transition fee. That was also part of the question asked. In this light, Mr Lintmeijer had another question about the legal protection of civil servants with a role of trust and whether a corridor to the civil court could be obstructive. I do not expect this to be the case, because both in civil and administrative procedural law there are provisions for confidential access to documents by the courts, for closed-door hearings and for restrictions on the disclosure of judgments. I would point out that many trust functions are already held by employees in the market sector. The list of these functions is, of course, secret, but I would think of functions at, for example, a nuclear power plant or airports. Apparently, the fact that these are already private employment contracts, which are governed by civil law, has not, in my knowledge, caused or never caused problems. Mr Flierman also asked whether this bill had an impact on the pension system of civil servants. We do not expect this to be the case. Retirement entitlements remain unchanged after the law of this bill. The General Civil Pension Fund has already been privatised in an earlier phase of the standardisation process in 1996. Moreover, the Privatisation Act ABP does not lay down the material content of the pension claims. This is done in private law agreements. The Privatisation Act ABP does, however, contain a definition of the term "public employer." It is indeed different from the definition proposed in the civil service bill, but we do not see any objection in that regard, because we believe that they can continue to exist side by side for the scope of each law. Mr Flierman also asked a question about mobility between the public and private sectors. The initiators have said that this bill can increase it. In particular, it seems likely that the flow of civil servants to the private sector will increase. This has to do with the rather widespread perception that civil servants can hardly or not be dismissed. That may not be legally correct, but that image does exist. There are probably officials for whom that is a consideration not to switch to the private sector. This picture can be overturned if it becomes clear that the same right of dismissal will apply to the public and private sectors. There are also areas where greater mobility from the market sector to the public sector is expected to arise. I'm thinking personnel officers. An increase in the influx of these officials from the private sector into the public sector can easily lead to an increased exchange of good practice, for example, between these sectors. Work attorneys can also be considered if there is a single labour law in both areas. Then there may also be a single labour market for such expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u49	I would ask Mr Van Weyenberg to focus on his answer. I was looking not only at the categories of people he has mentioned now when it comes to situations where the government is or is becoming more attractive than it is today, but also at very specific expertise which, I believe, is now seriously lacking in the government. I am thinking of ICT experts, whom you would like to see the government be able to attract the best in this area. I am curious to see whether the proposed legislation will make the government more attractive as an employer for this type of labour, which is scarce and highly skilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u50	I find that a complicated question, because the first question is whether the fact that ICT experts do not come to work in the government is primarily about working conditions, i.e. what they can earn in the market, or whether they may prejudice working in the government. In the latter case, you might expect a limited positive effect of this bill. I feel, however, a great reluctance to count with myself. I think that greater attractiveness is very important, also for the challenges Mr Engels spoke about. Much more will be needed than just this step to be an attractive employer for these professionals with very scarce knowledge as a government. In my view, it will be mainly in the working conditions arrangements that are agreed upon. Of course, that is not the domain of the legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u51	I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg's reply. The government can make itself more attractive to very specialised people by doing something about working conditions. Now, however, I note that the upper limit mentioned earlier in Mr Van Weyenberg's speech will certainly play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u52	This is, of course, true with and without the adoption of this bill. I don't know if you will immediately encounter the limits of the Standards Act for top officials public and semi-public sector in all ICT expertise. However, Mr Flierman is right; if you, as a government, consciously apply upper limits, as decided by the legislator, you make it more complicated than easier to attract certain expertises with such a level of remuneration. That seems to me to be a true statement and a great task for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u53	It seems to me that, in certain situations, the government needs those very specific, very expert people and that it will be very difficult to find them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u54	It concerns, among other things, the attractiveness of the public sector. That is a very important subject. It is also about the exchange between the private and collective sectors. I ask the proposers whether it would also be possible for the equality of government with all the arbitrary workers in our country to have a negative impact on those who see their vocation in the high office of the government. Those are tough words. I can also say it more easily. I mean, a lot of people work through an ideal driven government, in the public interest. If that general interest becomes a kind of ordinary interest of an ordinary employer, I understand very well why Mr Van Weyenberg is afraid to say anything about the effects of this bill. They could be the opposite of his intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u55	Of course, it is not for nothing that we apply the Civil Service Act. We do this precisely because working in the public interest is a special responsibility. You should always be a little careful throwing your own history into it, but I've done it myself 15 years of passion. I thought it was a very venerable and fantastic profession for many reasons, but I must confess that for me, and for many of my colleagues, the unilateral appointment was not the decisive factor. The decisive factor was indeed the intrinsic motivation to serve the general interest. I think the questioner and I share that. It is our conviction that ending the one-sided appointment does not reduce the attraction of the profession, of serving the public interest and of working as an official.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u56	I think we're getting to the point. If we are to become personal, Mr Van Weyenberg, was your enjoyment of work very hampered by the one-sided appointment? Is the urgency of the draft law so difficult because the public service is, as it were, under a blanket of dustiness? I quote from the explanatory statement. I've been somewhat disturbed by the word "upholstery." Maybe a lot of people think it's dusty there, and maybe there are dusty officials there, too. I don't want to rule it out, but there are dusty people in all sectors of society. Shouldn't we be focusing on the specific attractiveness of the public sector rather than creating the impression that there is nothing special to be done by the public authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u57	You could give a positive indication of the quote that Mr Sietsma gives, namely that there is a lot of solid, years of experience in the government and that we should cherish it. I would like to agree with Mr Sietsma, but the idea of this bill is that we want to ensure that individuality where it belongs, and that is in the Civil Service Act. I think that's the starting point of this law. Codes do indeed have an important role to play in this; we have talked about this before. But we want to put an end to the one-sided appointment and the way in which working conditions are created, and in practice something quite different is being done than is written in the law. Issues such as mobility and so on have always been outlined by the proposers as matters which "may also be done" as matters of the second order. Let me therefore take this opportunity once again to say that, precisely because we respect the office of civil servant, we are in favour of bringing legislation to this point and separating it. In my view, the difference of opinion as to whether to do so with a unilateral appointment or with a contract of employment under private law does not alter the importance that we both attach to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u58	I also feel that we have reached the crux of the law. There is also the crux of our concerns about this bill. That was actually the case in the written reply. The questions that live in this Chamber about the guarantee of the typical public side of the official's work when this bill is adopted are answered by the authors in separate parts, while precisely the coherence of this bill causes the concerns. Mr Sietsma has just asked for this. It will probably be the case that the Employment and Security Act brings the right of civil servants to resign closer to that of employees in the market sector and has a positive effect on both parties. I really see that as an advantage of this bill. Mr Van Weyenberg just said that I gave'magical qualities' to the one-sided appointment. Well, I'm way too North Holland to find anything "magical." It's just about legal security. The unilateral appointment is intended to protect civil servants from political arbitrariness in, for example, dismissal law. How is the legal guarantee of officials against political arbitrariness guaranteed by the proposers if this bill is adopted? I'd really like to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u59	Let me say first of all that we do not approach civil servants in the same way as any other employee. It is not for nothing that we guarantee the Civil Service Act. We have just talked about good employment, good civil service and serving the public interest. The Civil Service Act also contains a number of agreements on this matter. Mrs Keijzer spoke about the fundamental rights balance. As far as the right of dismissal is concerned, I think this whole house agrees that political dismissal is undesirable. I am not concerned that the new bill would be a deterioration on this point. Even now, you have to go to court. He's gonna bail on a firing ground. I cannot imagine a judge saying that it may be a reason for dismissal that the minister does not like the party colour of the official. In fact, I think that we should cherish the apolitical content of our civil servants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u60	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u61	I honestly thought that Mr Van Weyenberg had not yet been spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u62	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u63	Can I ask you to be brief? Because I'm also looking at the clock a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u64	I have one and a half pages left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u65	No, I'm talking to Mrs Barth. Go ahead, Mrs. Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u66	For us, this is a very important point in the assessment of the legislative proposal. A lot of people in our country are affected by this, too. Mr Van Weyenberg has just said that he cannot imagine a judge doing that and that he cannot imagine an employer dealing with an official in this way. But that's really something other than a solid legal guarantee. This bill is not just about changing the right of dismissal. The applicants also remove the obligation of good employership from the Civil Service Act. They don't want the content of what a good official is legally guaranteed. So there are all kinds of legal guarantees which now exist because of the one-sided appointment. Our question is: what comes in return? Political resignation will certainly occur, including in our country. That will not be because of the political colour of an official, but because he contradicts his political boss at a time when that boss prefers not to hear it, at a time when such an official serves the State rather than the political ministers who happen to be at the helm there at that time as passers-by. I repeat my question: what is the legal guarantee according to the authors of this bill? What articles of the law can an official refer to the court if he is confronted with political arbitrariness in the event of dismissal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u67	However, in advance: I did not say anything that I would delete "good employership." I argued that it was not included in our version of the Civil Service Act because it is already included in the Civil Code. It's already in there. I think that is quite different from creating the picture now, as if it would only open the locks to employers' arbitrariness. I certainly did not want to argue that. The legal question is a clear one. Let me put the current situation against Mrs Barth's example. What if political resignations were to take place? Then the judge should be able to correct that. I fully agree with Mrs Barth. Our position is that that does not change with this bill. Under the Work and Security Act, the UWV and the Court of Justice must check whether the right grounds for dismissal have been put forward in the context of the preventive test. I note that this preventive test is not in the current protection. That's more of a tightening-up than a weakening, I'd say. I see Mrs Barth agrees. If political considerations are at stake, in current practice the grounds for dismissal are usually 'disturbed industrial relations'. The public employer will then have to convince the judge that he cannot reasonably be required to continue the contract of employment. It is our conviction that he will not succeed, as well as he will not succeed now, if he makes unreasonable demands to the official on the basis of political loyalty or political arbitrariness. In this context, I would like to refer to the linking clause in the Civil Code, namely Article 3.14. As a result of that provision, any public employer will have to continue to apply the principles of good administration in exercising his powers under an employment contract. I believe that these principles, such as care, legal certainty and a reasonable balance of interests, are in full effect. This is not only the case with political resignation, but with any form of dismissal. So no, I don't share the concern. I even dare say that the preventive test introduced makes it stronger than weaker. In fact, under the current system, redundancies can be made, and the redundant worker must then take action. Here's the preemptive test. Looking at the Civil Code and the way in which good employership is now defined, I do not have that concern. Of course I agree with Mrs Barth that it is completely undesirable, remains and must remain, but she knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u68	You look at me like you have something to say very briefly, Mrs Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u69	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u70	Mr. Sietsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u71	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg spoke about political resignation. As far as I know, this is rare in our country in the strict sense. What is happening, and what we have to do a great deal about in the public service, is that there is not enough counter-play and contradiction, because drivers want to achieve things. That is their right, but the art is to promote the quality of our public administration, precisely because of administrative contradiction. In this context, the system of rights and the position of officials is of great importance. So I would not call it 'political resignation'. For example, I would like to call it 'incompatibility of characters'; it is often thrown on top of that. You can put forward all kinds of grounds for dismissal, but at the heart of the matter is whether our public administration accepts and even encourages internal contradiction. I would very much like to encourage this, but there is something to be said about the legal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u72	I would like to agree strongly with Mr Sietsma. I have tried to argue that, legally, I do not see any weakening of the position of an employee who unexpectedly finds himself in such a situation and that such matters are, as far as I am concerned, a matter of weak political leadership rather than of the employee being blamed. I have also tried to argue that it is not enough to stress the contradiction in the administrative culture in training. In my experience, powerful drivers are more open to this, because it increases and does not reduce their effectiveness. So I fully agree with that. In my view, this point rightly plays an extremely important role in all training courses for government officials and other authorities. The encouragement to increase that role rather than to reduce it, if that's how I understand it, I'm happy to share it. Finally, Mr Schalk asked a question about conscientious objectors. There is currently no legislation for conscientious objectors, except for the specific scheme for civil servants. There is a report from an official working group and a cabinet position from 1983. Policy guidelines were adopted in 1989 in the then organized consultations by public employers and employees. They are also used in case law. If through this bill Book 7 of the Civil Code would enter into force or become applicable to civil servants, Article 669 (3) (f) shall also apply to civil servants. This means that an official may be dismissed on the grounds of refusing to carry out the stipulated work on account of a serious objection of conscience, provided that it is likely that the stipulated work cannot be carried out in a suitable form. This does not entail any major changes for civil servants, since employers are already obliged to check whether they can meet the official by changing his duties. I'm coming to my closure. The cabinet has asked for an opinion from an official working group led by then member of the Council of State, Mr Borstlap... I see Mr Schalk walking to the microphone, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u73	I would like to thank Mr Van Weyenberg for his response to my question, but he approaches that question precisely from the other side. My question is: in the case of a two-sided contract of employment, an employee must not be dismissed for the mere fact of conscientious objection. He shouldn't even be denied the mere fact of conscientious objection. Would Mr Van Weyenberg also like to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u74	Mr Schalk is now closing the circle, because that is what we are talking de facto about the refuse officials. They have a rather special position, of course, because they play a certain role, namely the conclusion of a marriage. In doing so, they have a kind of public expression that is different from that in the example of an official who does not want to do certain activities. That distinction was also made in the course of the examination of that bill. I know and fully respect that Mr Schalk and I feel differently about this and consider it different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u75	You can also come back to this in second place, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u76	I hope to do so, Madam President, but for the moment I have the following question. Does Mr Van Weyenberg really think that not being able to carry out a particular act by an official of civil status for the sake of conscience in this case the conclusion of a marriage between two people of the same sex is something other than being prevented from any other objection to conscience? Mr Van Weyenberg has just quoted articles from the Civil Code which clearly state that this problem does not need to exist if you can organise it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u77	Mr Schalk is challenging me a little bit to change the legal process now. Perhaps it would be wise for me to be very reluctant, since Mrs Keijzer and I are here on behalf of the whole Chamber. I hope Mr Schalk understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u78	I would indeed be reluctant to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u79	I have merely tried to confirm that I see a distinction between the rules for conscientious objectors and the very specific case of the wedding officer. Once again, I know that Mr Schalk obviously takes a different view. I was working on my lock. Mr Borstlap, then member of the Council of State, was asked to give an opinion on how the cabinet could direct both the content of the terms of employment and the organisation of the consultation after the present legislative proposal had been accepted. In his introduction to that opinion, Mr Borstlap wrote about the legislative proposal, inter alia, as follows: "If the bill also reaches a majority in the First Chamber, it is highly conceivable that this law will mark a transition to a period with more shared perspective and constructive consultation. After all, the standardisation law logically leads to the explicit separation of the role of public employer from the legislative role. This would be better suited to the specific requirements of an effective, productive public sector than has been possible in recent years. Accompanying working conditions and the intensive involvement of workers' organisations are difficult to miss. So there are opportunities to start a new phase with the implementation of the Standardisation Act. May all those concerned understand the signs of this time and act accordingly." According to Mr Borstlap. At the end of my speech, I would like to endorse this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u80	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u81	Mr. Chairman. I, too, naturally thank all the speakers for the thorough attention they have paid to the legislative proposal. I will try to go into it at least as thoroughly, and I will also, of course, keep an eye on the clock. It would be crazy for me not to mention here the name of Eddy van Hijum, who stood at the cradle of this bill. On this point, I would like to thank him for his efforts. I will deal with the following issues today. First of all, I will deal with the technique and structure of the legislative proposal and its relationship to the ILO conventions. Then I come to the balance between employees and employers in the government, in particular the fundamental rights of civil servants, the question of whether the government can overrule the agreements it makes as an employer as legislator and the requirement of compliance in legislation. After that, I come to speak about the exceptions made in the legislative proposal, in particular those for the defence and the police. Next, I would like to say something about the concept of civil servant in relation to private bodies with public authority and education. Finally, I will respond to the request for a future perspective. Mrs Huijbregts and Mr Flierman made critical comments on what they called "the hybrid system of the bill." There may be two aspects to this. Firstly, there is the fact that some groups of officials are excluded from standardisation. I will come back to talk about this later. Secondly, there is Mr Flierman's question as to whether we do not retain a number of elements of public law in the new status. That too could be called hybrid. I would point out that combining public law and private law in a single system is nothing special. It is one of the normal instruments of the legislative lawyer. It is also common in practice. An example can already be seen in those government organisations where, in many places, for example, in the case of ZBOs, but also in the case of many extraordinary investigators, working on the basis of a contract of employment governed by private law is combined with the exercise of public law powers. With the proposal before us, we are adding the Civil Service Act, for all civil servants. This combination of a private contract with the Civil Service Act is quite possible. We believe that the continued existence of a Civil Service Act is essential because it reflects what kind of official service we want to have in the country and what non-marketable conditions, for an indefinite period of time, are necessary for this. As far as we are concerned, this should include integrity and confidentiality obligations. They're not supposed to be the subject of negotiation. This combination of public law and private law results in a system in which employees in the public and private sectors are treated as equal as possible. We do this by harmonising where it is possible, but to deviate where it is necessary. Harmonisation as a starting point is quite possible. In essence, there is no difference between the employment relationships of civil servants with public employers and those of other employees with their employers. In both cases, this employment relationship is characterised by subjugation and wage dependency. Such an employment relationship requires the settlement of a number of basic elements, such as pay, leave, probation, equal treatment, penalty clauses and dismissal. The Civil Code contains a system for all these subjects, which is generally regarded as adequate and balanced. This arrangement may apply to all industrial relations without any objection. In addition, the rules of the Civil Service Act will apply to civil servants. That can be called hybrid, but for the proposers this is not unclear, ineffective or legally unusual. Mrs Huijbregts also said that the legislative proposal limits the unbundling of the role of employers and government. That is an important point, because we want to distinguish as sharply as possible between the roles of the public authorities as legislators and as employers. We think we have succeeded. This is mainly due to the fact that all legal provisions will no longer be generally binding rules. As a result, all government legislators other than the State, such as provinces and municipalities, will soon no longer have a role as legislator at all, and then in their relationship as employers. Only for the government there remains a small role as legislator, but it is not alone, because the States-General are co-legislators. There are no more than three laws on which Mr Van Weyenberg has already spoken in detail. Mr Flierman asked whether another legislative approach would not have been more attractive. The formal one-sided relationship should then be maintained. A number of aspects, such as the right of dismissal, should be regulated in accordance with the market sector. In our view, such an approach was subject to reservations. Harmonisation of issues such as the right of dismissal should then be achieved using existing procedures for the establishment of working conditions in the public administration. This would require the same outcome to be achieved at the many negotiating tables that exist in the government. Moreover, that outcome should be fully consistent with the Civil Code. In other words, there would be nothing for the unions to negotiate. We therefore consider that the chances of such an approach being successful are small. Even if it did succeed, there would be an objection that several judges would have to judge the administrative and civil courts on the application of the right of dismissal. There is therefore a risk that different judges will interpret and apply the same provisions differently. Once this law enters into force, there will not again be a difference between the formal and the actual situation. At least not in the case of officials whose legal status is harmonised. Mr Flierman also asked whether the draft law would give more rights to public workers, given the ILO conventions. The conditions of employment of public servants are now governed by ILO Convention 151. It stipulates that there should be procedures for negotiating working conditions, or other procedures allowing representatives of government staff to participate in the definition of working conditions. That is not a very far-reaching obligation. The Netherlands largely meets this requirement. However, Convention 198 shows that the ILO has higher ambitions in relation to the market sector. It talks about voluntary negotiations between employers' and workers' organisations, which should be aimed at agreeing working conditions in collective agreements. If today's bill becomes law, treaty 198 in the Netherlands will also apply to the normalized sectors. Of course, we have no problem with that, because for these sectors we meet the standards of this Treaty. Mrs Barth made comments on what she called "the heart of the problems" that her group has with this bill. It looked at the balance between the role of the government as an employer and as a legislator and between the rights and obligations of employers and employees in the government. The essence of Mrs Barth's speech is that she believes that the legislative proposal results in an imbalance between the positions of employees and employers in the government. The balance sheet should be restored by a requirement of conformity with regard to the submission of legislative proposals. Two arguments are put forward for the existence of that imbalance. The first is that the government as a legislator can restrict the fundamental rights of civil servants. The second is that the government as a legislator can overrule any agreement made. I would now like to explain that these two arguments are, in our view, unfounded. Then I would like to explain the objections we have to the conformity requirements proposed by Mrs Barth with regard to the submission of legislative proposals. With regard to the fundamental rights of civil servants, Mrs Barth listed the fundamental rights of civil servants who could be restricted. She added: "There is no employer in the market sector who can." That's a misunderstanding. In the market sector, employers may also require their employees to refrain, for example, from certain statements, to have contact with the press, to accept that business email accounts are controlled and limited, for example when it comes to using Twitter. They do. The fact that international human rights treaties do not have to stand in the way of this is demonstrated by a recent ruling by the European Court of Human Rights in a case of a Romanian worker. At national level, it is important that fundamental rights in our Constitution do not in principle directly affect the relationship between employers and employees. Workers in the private sector must have the right to have a judge who, in certain cases, can grant a so-called horizontal effect to fundamental rights. The fundamental rights in our Constitution have traditionally been applied primarily in the vertical relationship between the government and the citizen. The relationship between civil servants and the government, including as an employer, is seen in the case law as such a vertical relationship. As a result, civil servants are directly protected by fundamental rights. The restriction of their fundamental rights requires a legal provision. In some fundamental rights, this should even be a formal law. That explains why the Civil Service Act contains provisions on this matter. This requirement does not apply to the private sector. The protection of civil servants against a restriction on their fundamental rights is therefore greater than that of employees in the private sector. A concrete example of the difference between the public and private sectors is the freedom of expression. This concerns the question of whether workers can be prevented from speaking and banned from publishing. On this point, it is quite clear that the freedom of expression of civil servants is greater than that of employees in the private sector. This is because the provision of Article 7 of the Constitution, which prohibits prior leave, directly affects the relationship between the public employer and his officials. In the private sector, however, if there are good reasons for this, a ban on gags and a ban on publication may be imposed. My conclusion is that, if we look at the differences between the public and private sectors in terms of limiting the fundamental rights of workers, there is no imbalance to the detriment of civil servants, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u82	Mrs Keijzer is now taking a number of positions that I should check. I can't say anything about that right now. I'd like to get back to that in second term. It does raise a question for me. This is an issue which is particularly important in terms of the creation of working conditions, and we are talking a great deal about the right to strike today. If you fail to achieve good working conditions, for example in collective bargaining, then you can stop in the market sector. There are a lot of officials who can't or can't do that; soldiers, policemen, but also policy officials can't do that endlessly, and people who pick up garbage can't do that endlessly. That's what the judge limits. One of the reasons why trade unions have a privileged position in the public sector is precisely because the right to strike of civil servants is so limited. How does Mrs Keijzer see that a new balance has been created in the adoption of this bill? How is the position of civil servants stronger than that of the market sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u83	I often hear people say that officials have a more limited right to strike, but in my humble opinion it is not. That only applies to officials working at the Department of Defense. All other officials have the right to strike. When this is discussed, it will be reviewed in court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u84	I shall come back to the case law on this in the second term, but I do not agree with Mrs Keijzer. However, we must prevent it from becoming some kind of non-well-being game, so we should take it up in the second term. I have another question. It's about the right to stand as a candidate. Municipal officials cannot enter the city council of the place where they live if they live in the place where they work. That too is something that an employer in the market sector cannot impose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u85	No, but that is also regulated in legislation. When you touch on the fundamental rights of civil servants, that must be regulated by law. That's what it's all about. That is what I want to say with my speech. The position of civil servants when it comes to the protection of fundamental rights is stronger than that of employees in the private sector. The Civil Service Act expressly regulates this for the parts on which it is addressed. I refer to Articles 9, 10 and 11 of the Civil Service Act. It specifically stipulates that the limitation of the Constitution should be included in the law, precisely for civil servants, because there is a vertical relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u86	That's certainly the case, but you can turn it around. The simple fact that the law provides for these restrictions to take place means that civil servants have less freedom of movement in their legal position than workers in the market sector. Of course, this has to be done by law, because you can only limit people's fundamental rights by law. The fact that this is enshrined in the law is not, in itself, something that officials have in mind for workers in the market sector. Materially, this means that their freedom of movement is much less extensive. In order to maintain the balance between the employer and the employee of civil servants, the Civil Service Act currently also contains restrictions on the rights of the government as an employer. It is precisely those obligations of the government as an employer that Mrs Keijzer removes from the Civil Service Act and which are no longer contained in the legislative proposal, while the restrictions on civil servants, workers, are maintained by Mrs Keijzer. In her introduction, she indicated that there is harmonisation where it can be done and a distinction is made where it should be done. I have the clear impression that the distinction between where it should be in the legislative proposal is systematically to the detriment of the workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u87	In the beginning of this block, I have just argued that the imbalance Mrs Barth sees is not there in practice. I have just argued that fundamental rights work directly between the public authorities and civil servants. I am referring to the relationship between employers and employees in the market sector. On the contrary, I have argued that fundamental rights can also be restricted in the market sector. If you don't agree with that, you're gonna have to go to court. In this sense, there is no imbalance, because the protection of civil servants has always been greater. We are maintaining this by including it in the Civil Service Act, which is precisely what this protection is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u88	I can largely follow Mrs Keijzer's speech on fundamental rights. But is it not true that precisely the situation in which fundamental rights are restricted in the private law sphere will always concern a very small specific part of the life of the citizen concerned, namely those typical issues of employment relations? It is logical that an employee does not write letters and submitted documents in public against his employer. It is obvious that there will then be a restriction on the freedom of printing press. An official is automatically involved, even if he is an employee, in his citizenship. Therefore, I would not say that the protection of the official is stronger, but that it is proportionate, compared to the interests to which that protection of fundamental rights relates. Can Mrs Keijzer follow me in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u89	Up to a point. Here too, you hear very often that people say that officials are not allowed to publish and that they need to obtain prior consent. Reality is different. Precisely because there is this vertical effect between a government employer and an official, there is no question of asking for prior authorisation. The fact that this often happens in the relations between an official, because he feels that he serves the public interest and because he is often loyal to his government employer, does not mean that the law obliges him to do so. I often hear in this debate the statement that civil servants' rights are less high or are limited, but in my view the opposite is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u90	Being inherent to the civil servant is that you do not use certain fundamental rights, something you do when you are a random employee and pay particular attention to your employment relationship with your employer. The crux of the matter is not that an official would be better protected. The point is that there is proportional protection, given the position of officials. That is why I think it is well arranged at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u91	What we are dealing with is in line with that and is no different in that sense. We are talking about this because there would be a imbalance. In my opinion, that is not the case. It is more regulated, precisely because there is this vertical effect of fundamental rights between the public employer and the civil servant. The fact that officials do not then exercise that right to publish without prior authorisation has to do with the way in which you are living as an official. However, I also know a lot of people who work in business and who wouldn't even think about discussing a decision by their employer in public, also because they are loyal to their employer. That is an important issue, but that is not the question of whether there is a legal imbalance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u92	I think we have the leak in the discussion upstairs now, thanks to Mr Sietsma. In my first term, I did not argue at all that there is an imbalance between the market sector and the public sector in the positioning of fundamental rights. What I have argued is that the equivalence that the authors of this initiative proposal assume between the government and the market sector will never be achieved because it is a different position in fundamental rights. I'm not saying there's an imbalance, but it's fundamentally different. As a legislator, the government can unilaterally impose restrictions on civil servants on the application of their fundamental rights and thus the government as a legislator can be dominant over the government as an employer. Suppose that the government as an employer would not want an official to stop in a particular situation, that the officials would do so anyway and that the judge would approve it. In this way, the public authorities, as legislators, can, by means of the Civil Service Act in their hands, create a provision prohibiting the official from continuing to cease in such situations. This possibility does not exist for an employer in the market sector. He can't fall back on that role as an employer. I didn't say it was unbalanced. I have said that it is fundamentally different in nature. The interventions the initiators make in their legislative proposal in the balance between the state's position and the position of the official as an employee create a imbalance in the relationship between civil servants and the government as an employer. As far as I am concerned, the imbalance is not between the market sector and the public sector when it comes to fundamental rights. The imbalance arises from this bill, which alleviates the obligations of the government as an employer, while the duties of the civil servants as an employee are all maintained in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u93	In my humble opinion, it is different. The Constitution states, for example, the integrity of the body or the freedom of expression, subject to everyone's responsibility for the law. I'm just going to summarize all these provisions. That means that you can limit the freedom of expression of an official only by law. In a situation of an ordinary employer and employee such a limitation will have to be submitted to the court. Is it the case that in a specific case, in which officials are stopped, other than those of the Defense Department, in which the judge decides that there may be a suspension, you can then pass a law through the two Chambers in which, in general, you require the right to strike? No, because the right to strike is up to all civil servants. Only in practice can the court assess whether the public interest is so much at stake that it is impossible to stop in that particular situation. Everything I'm saying now is in the theories I put forward at the beginning of this block. Mrs Barth says that we can come back to this in the second term. I think it's wise to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u94	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing me one more interruption. This is an essential point for us. As it happens, there is a very concrete example of how this can work in the First Chamber. That's about the integrity of the body of employees in forensic psychiatry. The Cabinet has proposed in the Forensic Care Act to oblige officials working there to be visited to prevent contraband smuggling. The Secretary of State for Justice has previously tried to unilaterally declare this as an employer. He couldn't do that, and then he made that bill. That's how it is. An employer in the market sector cannot afford to do so, because he cannot resort to a law as an instrument for restricting these fundamental rights. Then an employee has to accept it, because Parliament has spoken the last word about it. That power of connecting all employees to what you want as an employer, the power you have as a legislator to still be right when you have lost it as an employer, that power does not have an employer in the market sector. That is an essential distinction between these two sectors, which means that there can never be such equivalence. And so there is no balance if the government as an employer loses its obligations in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u95	Employers in the market sector may also impose such obligations. If an individual employee disagrees, he can go to court and ask for it to be checked against the horizontal functioning of fundamental rights in this case. In the example of civil servants, Mrs Barth actually says beautifully what it is like. It's more strictly regulated for civil servants. If you want that with officials, you need legislation, which then has to go through both chambers of the States General. Even so, it may be that in the end a judge indicates that it goes too far in a particular case. I understand that the debate is not about whether there is an imbalance. Mrs Barth believes that the position of civil servants is less strong, but I think it is stronger, precisely because the restriction must be carried out through laws in a formal sense. I also come to the question of whether certain matters can be overruled by law. That also touches this dispute a little bit. Following Mr Engels' question to what extent the relationship between civil servant and fundamental rights in the new context should or will be interpreted differently, I would add that no changes are expected in this respect. Then I come to the second argument that Mrs Barth is arguing for the existence of an imbalance between the position of employers and employees in the government. That is the idea that the government as a legislator can overrule any agreement made. I don't come up with a nice Dutch word, so until then I will use overruling. Here too, I must fight Mrs Barth's idea. This isn't true. In a rule of law, the government must respect its own contracts, including as legislators. This has already been mentioned in the written preparation by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He referred to a ruling of the Supreme Court in 1849 that an inadequate budget for the State does not justify non-compliance with agreements with citizens. Nor do I know of an example of a law whereby the legislator amends or cancels an agreement that has been concluded by a public body with a contracting partner, simply because the financial consequences of that agreement do not turn out so well for the government on closer inspection. Mrs Barth rightly said that it does not matter whether the government is doing anything, but that the question is whether the government can do anything. If we are discussing whether the government can do something, it is important whether the government has done something like this before and whether it has remained in court later. Mrs Barth mentioned an example of what she called a firm intervention. It was about an agreement between the government and employers on the so-called oval funds: a public contribution to labour cost development, which was part of the government agreement. That agreement was regarded by the court as a private law agreement. In doing so, the judge ruled that the State must comply with its commitments. This proves that the government cannot ignore an agreement it has made. I see "overruling" again, but maybe that's a better word. Mrs Barth then said that the government would have expressed its intention to terminate the oval covenant in question by law. Of course, such a plan does not mean that such a bill would also be legal. There's a lot of bluffing in politics. The bill has never been filed. I therefore maintain that there is no example of a law that shows that the legislator can ignore any agreement made. There's a good reason for that. It would be contrary to the principles of the rule of law. I conclude, therefore, that there is no problem with the overrule of agreements with a law that results in an imbalance. On the contrary, on this point, the position of employees is strengthened by the legislative proposal, namely by the private-law relationship inherent in contracts of employment and by the application of ILO Convention No. 198, which prohibits unilateral government intervention. I now come to the remedy that Mrs Barth has advocated in order to correct the imbalance that we do not think there is: the re-establishment of 'consensual consultation, whereby a majority of the designated trade unions must agree before a plan can be introduced'. According to her, this would have been removed from the law with the legislative proposal and therefore the relationship between employer and employee in the government would have been out of balance. In this context, it is essential that what she referred to as "a plan" can cover two types of topics. It can be about working conditions or about legislation. In both cases we have not removed the requirement of conformity from the law, because it has never been there. It is in the so-called RDP scheme. This is a general measure of governance that will lapse as a result of the legislative proposal. The expiry of this General Measure is logical in the system of the legislative proposal, given what will replace it. When it comes to the establishment of working conditions, what is laid down in the Civil Code in relation to the establishment of contracts applies. That can only be done with will. This applies not only to individual contracts of employment, but also to collective agreements. If it is not a question of working conditions in the contractual sphere but of legislation, we have deliberately not included in the legislative proposal any provision that does not allow a legislative proposal to be submitted if agreement has not been reached with the unions. For us, abandoning this is an essential part of the proposed standardisation. What Mrs Barth sees as shifting a balance sheet, we see as restoring the right state balance. Let me explain this to you. We believe that there should be as clear a definition as possible between, on the one hand, the domain of the legislator and, on the other, the negotiating table at which the working conditions are agreed. In other words, a separation between the roles of the government as legislator and as employer. The conditions of employment should be established by agreement between employers and employees. In doing so, an equal position for both sides at the negotiating table. We're not doing anything about that. In fact, we are giving it a better legal basis: private contract law. Legislation is something else, even when it comes to legislation that is of great importance to employers and employees, such as the Civil Code and the whole labour law, social security legislation and civil servants' law. It is good and sensible to seek advice on legislative proposals in these areas and to consult with workers' and employers' organisations. But against a rule that would mean that the government and MPs would not be able to table a legislative proposal if they had not reached agreement with three of the four trade unions mentioned in particular, we have major objections. Firstly, we ask the House's attention to whether such a proposal would be in line with the Constitution. Pursuant to Article 82 of the Constitution, proposals may be submitted by the Government and the House of Representatives. This is not merely a procedural provision. It also gives powers to the government and the House of Representatives. A limitation of that power should have a constitutional basis, but I do not see it. It is also important to consider the scope of the conformity requirement proposed by Mrs Barth. It is clear that it would be very scratchy if an agreement requirement would extend to the Civil Code and all labour law laws. This would mean that the civil servants' associations would have a dominant position if they were to change it, which would certainly not be in the hands of employees in the private sector. But even if it were limited to amendments to the Civil Service Act, it would raise important objections to us. In fact, this would draw the standards of the Civil Service Act in the context of working conditions. We think that is wrong. The Civil Service Act is, in our view, a matter for the legislator. At this point, it is quite possible to separate the roles of the government as legislator and employer. As a legislator, it establishes all labour law laws and the Civil Service Act and as an employer, it is one of the parties to the negotiating table when agreeing a collective agreement. This does not exclude consultation of stakeholders' organisations in legislation. When it comes to labour law, we soon talk about workers' and employers' organisations. This should also apply to amendments to the Staff Act, but the four major civil servants' associations should not have a monopoly and certainly not a veto. Mr Flierman spoke about the simplicity with which directors engage in collective bargaining and the words of power that are sometimes expressed. It sometimes leads to beautiful television. I recognize that, but of course there are some bluffs. For example, a budget law may be important for establishing the negotiating area for government employers, but it does not bind the unions. The government can always submit a supplementary budget law if a negotiated result gives rise to this. What will be a difference between the old situation and the new situation is that legal status arrangements, established by law, are in principle open-ended, whereas collective agreements usually have a limited duration of one or two years. Even then, of course, when an employer concludes a collective agreement, he can take the view that he has no money for wage increases, but that will have to be explained at the negotiating table. We believe it is important that the conditions of employment of civil servants are created in exactly the same way as in the private sector. This means that we have to move from public law to genuine private-law binding collective agreements. My next topic concerns the exceptions made in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u96	I have another question that goes back to the agreement-oriented consultation. I understood from Mr Van Weyenberg that the predecessors of the proposers had sought that consultation, but that it did not come to anything. If the interlocutors had said at that time that they would have liked to speak through, would Mrs Keijzer have said to them, on the basis of the arguments she is now using, that she was not in favour of an agreement, but merely to say that it is coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u97	Of course, I have not been to those talks myself, but Mr Van Weyenberg has just told us how that conversation went. That discussion was also part of a consultation on the legislative proposal. This is common practice when legislative proposals are prepared. The only substantive comment made at that time was about the right of transition. It's in the law. Of course, the question of negotiating terms of employment is not for us as members of the House of Representatives to table a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u98	In short, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u99	This means that it was more of a consultation than an agreement-oriented consultation? So the question that is now before us was not at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u100	I know Mr Van Heijum quite well, Mrs Koşer Kaya a little less. I can imagine that they have gone to the other parties with the idea of the bill and the relevant texts. It was laid down by the other parties that they do not want to talk about it until there is a right of veto. I have just argued that this is contrary to the Constitution. That would also be far too far, because it would restrict the constitutional powers of Members of Parliament to make a legislative proposal in a large way. Our predecessors have said that this is too far-reaching. When we took over, of course, we looked at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u101	May I ask how much longer you think you need, Mrs. Keijzer? The Minister also needs to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u102	I've got about eight A4s left, but they're big letters, so that's okay. I come to the exceptions. As far as the exclusion of directors, the judiciary, notaries and bailiffs is concerned, if I understand correctly, there is no discussion. Well, there is about the armed forces and the police. It is striking, however, that no one in those discussions argued that the police and the armed forces should not have been excluded. It concerns the justification underlying the exception. As Mr Schalk's contribution shows, this could be a stepping stone to the question of whether, if the armed forces and the police are excluded, not even more or less related groups of civil servants should be excluded, with the risk that so many civil servants will eventually be excluded that the bill will no longer make any sense at all. Mrs Barth felt it was obvious that the applicants justified the exceptions against the background of the restriction of the fundamental rights of civil servants. She pointed out that the exclusion of military personnel was based on the absence of the right to strike for them. That is correct, but the initiators have motivated this in a way that was specific to the military and the right to strike. It cannot therefore be extended to other fundamental rights or other groups of civil servants. I just talked about that. The limitation of the exercise of fundamental rights by other officials who are possible have no relationship with the negotiation of working conditions. For this, they are irrelevant when it comes to any impairment of equivalence between civil servants and government employers. Fundamental rights have therefore played no role in excluding groups of civil servants other than military. Mr Schalk and Mrs Huijbregts asked again to explain the objective criteria on which the excluded categories are based. First of all, it has played an important role that should not apply to two different legal systems within one organisation. The government has been calling for this in particular. I think it is right that I should also explain what was not a criterion. That's carrying guns. It is very important to ensure that the government does not abuse its monopoly of violence, but we do not see how a unilateral appointment could provide a guarantee to prevent that abuse. Guarantees must be provided of good instructions and training prior to and subsequent accountability. These guarantees can very well be accompanied by a contract of employment governed by private law. Of course, there may also be other good reasons for excluding officials carrying weapons, especially military and police officers. I have just explained the reasons for excluding the defence personnel. In the exclusion of the police, the motion by Mr Slob and Mrs Kuik is important. In that motion, the House of Representatives stated that it wanted to retain the current status of police officers. That motion does not in itself provide any insight into the motives of the proposers. However, the report of the legislative consultation in which the motion was proposed suggests that, according to the first petitioner of the motion, the police should be excluded on the basis of the same reasoning as was applied with regard to the military. We could not follow Mr Slob in that, because in that reasoning the absence of the right to strike for military personnel played a decisive role. As I said, that's different with the police. But since the motion was adopted in the examination of the new Police Act, the initiators assumed that another consideration also played a role, namely that in the complicated process of forming a national police force and changing the legal status of the personnel there was just one complication too much. We considered this to be an understandable and well-preserved consideration. In addition, the initiators received signals that the group that had voted in the Lower House for Mr Slob's and Mrs Kuik's motion strongly supported the implementation of that motion. That is why they have considered it effective not to accept an amendment from this group, but to include the exception from the police in a letter of amendment. I come to the private organisations and education. I welcome Mrs Bikker's question on this because it gives me the opportunity to point out an important defect in the current Civil Service Act. This is the result of a wording in Article 1 of the Civil Service Act, which is currently in force: "Official within the meaning of the law is the person appointed to be employed in public service." What exactly is "public service"? That's not defined anywhere. When it comes to appointment to a ministry or municipal secretariat, that is clear, but when it comes to public education and subsidised institution, that is much less clear. That's where it's only gonna become clear when the judge decides. Four criteria have been developed in the case law. The question is how much influence the government has on the legal person concerned. This may lead to the fact that it is only long after a person has been appointed as an official, for example after he has been dismissed, that the judge finds that he was not an official at all. Mrs Bikker mentioned the case of an employee of the Rotterdam Philharmonic Orchestra. There is similar case law with regard to the staff of primary public education who are housed in a foundation by a municipality. As a result, many people do not know whether they are civil servants or not, and we do not know exactly how many officials there are in our country. We have therefore opted for a different approach in the legislative proposal. Officials are those employed by a government employer. Who they are. is listed in Article 2. In summary, these are the legal persons established under public law. To this are added the independent administrative bodies which are governed by private law, but which have as their core activity the exercise of public authority. In doing so, we have indeed said goodbye to the case law. Our answer to Mrs Bikker's question is therefore positive. We no longer need this case law, because the system of the legislative proposal is much clearer. The legal persons established or held by public authority under public law may be easily derived from the legislation. A list of all government employers can also be drawn up on the basis of the ZBO register. Only those legal persons governed by public law who have the exercise of public authority as a key activity should be taken into account. This approach makes it clear from the outset whether employees are civil servants and therefore whether they should be sworn in. Mrs Huijbregts and Mr Flierman and Mr Engels spoke about education. Mrs Huijbregts seemed to assume that different methods of appointment would be maintained within the profession of teachers in public and special education. Mr Flierman even spoke of a mistake in the bill which would have excluded some of the public education staff from the new system. I see this differently. The aim of the legislative proposal is to replace one-sided public-law appointments with two-sided private-law contracts. This objective is achieved, including in public education. As a result, public and special education will be subject to the same terms of employment, i.e. by means of a contract of employment. Something else is the question raised by Mr Engels. This concerns the continued application of the Civil Service Act to the staff of part of public education. The bill doesn't change anything at this point. The question is, however, whether this should not happen. Mr Engels mentioned a number of arguments on the basis of which it could be decided that staff in public education should no longer be covered by the Civil Service Act. There's something to be said for that. But the initiators felt that changing this situation was not necessary to achieve the main objective of the bill, namely a private contract of employment for everyone. However, it could, of course, still be done within the framework of the introduction law. I come to the last part of my speech: the future. Mr Flierman asked whether the process of harmonisation has really been completed. In response, I am inclined to use the same terms as Mr Van Weyenberg has just used. As far as we are concerned, the necessary high level of maintenance has been completed with this bill, but small maintenance may remain necessary in the future. Mr Engels asked us what direction we are thinking with regard to possible substantial changes to the Civil Service Act. Mr Lintmeijer has another answer to his question as to what the initiators still have in store to ensure the individuality of the position of civil servants. I take all these questions with me in response to Mrs Bikker's request for a perspective. First of all, adaptation legislation, and perhaps introduction legislation, must be put in place before the law can enter into force. It is also desirable that collective agreements should be concluded in advance. By adaptation legislation I mean purely technical legislation which could be dismissed as a hammer piece. Introducing legislation may be more substantive if necessary. There are minor amendments to the Staff Act which do not lead to too much discussion. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned two examples of this: the re-entry into the Civil Service Act of the obligation of public employers to good employership, and the explication in the Civil Service Act of the fact that service to the public interest is part of good civil service. An introduction law could also put an end to the civil service of public education workers and academic hospitals. A somewhat more time-consuming perspective could be on further amendments to the Civil Service Act. In this context, however, we have talked about codifying case law on good employment and good civil service. However, if I understand the Minister for Foreign Affairs correctly, he does not think of anchoring official core values in the law. This will not be the last word on the subject for the time being. But for the moment, I would like to stress that this perspective in itself is separate from harmonisation. It's not necessary to make that operation work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u103	Thank you, Mrs Keijzer. I give the floor to the Minister. I would like to ask him if he can respond in no later than half an hour, because there will then be another debate in which a number of Members, who are spokesmen here, will also be present. Is that gonna work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u104	Mr President, it will not be up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u105	Ah, look at that, beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u106	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators who have made a six-year journey to this point. The proposal on the legal status of civil servants includes, to some extent, a plan which was also included in the government agreement, i.e. the equalization of the right of civil servants to resign from the market. But it goes considerably further on a number of points, which have also been discussed in part, such as the two-sided employment contract, which may also cover aspects such as pay, leave, leave and probation. Under civil service law, a person cannot be dismissed within two months of probation without giving reasons. In the market, you can. There are a number of other changes. The highest appeal authority is no longer the Central Board of Appeal but becomes the Supreme Court. There has been extensive discussion of the collective agreement. This means that after the adoption of this bill, the public employers, like the employers in the market, become free to conclude collective agreements or not. They are also free to choose the trade unions with which they want to do so. This is, of course, without prejudice to the fact that government employers will always be motivated to conclude collective agreements with as many relevant parties as possible, in my opinion it seems reasonable, but the obligation to do so lapse. Mrs Huijbregts asks if, if this initiative proposal had not already been tabled when the cabinet was in office, I would have submitted it. You should always be careful when asking like-dan questions, but I think I would have limited myself to what was laid down in the coalition agreement by the House of Representatives and what I signed up for, namely equalising the right of dismissal, and not opting for the extension to the legal status in the broad sense. But, again, it's ultimately a theoretical question. Let me begin by repeating what I said in the House of Representatives, namely that I leave the opinion on the proposal as it stands to the House. Having said that, I must add that I got a slightly harder head in after hearing the first term of this Chamber. I reread the report this weekend. With a red pen I've been striping, so I noticed a few passages in it. First of all, the parties of the initiators were quite critical. Mr Flierman feared that the legal status of the unions would be weakened. Mr Engels, who has looked at the proposal in detail, has been able to follow it, but says that, in principle, equality between officials and staff in the market has been a bit harsh. The official remains, he says, a special employee on issues such as integrity, democratic-legal awareness, security research, and so he mentions a number of points. When I read the contributions of the two government parties, I think Mrs Barth is still relatively mild, but still critical in a number of respects. For example, in terms of the budget, where it indicated that the SEO study would cost EUR 109 million. She asked me if I could take that from the Empire, insofar as those costs descend locally. Unfortunately, the answer is negative. I do not have any room on the BZK budget to make additional funds available for this. She referred to the discussion on the scope and exceptions. I would like to come back to that in detail. Mr Schalk also added a list. I stuck with that for a while, because for example he indicated that the AIVD would fall under the market legal position but the STUD was not. I need to confirm that. That is indeed the case. The same goes for the police versus security guards and the D.A. versus the Council of State. That is 20% of the whole public sector. I'll get back to you in a minute. Interestingly, Mrs Huijbregts was, in a sense, the most critical because she wondered whether the original goal was being achieved. In addition, she said it's one of two: either you intervene far and wide one-sidedly in the payroll building, or you normalize the legal status. That was about the WNT, of course. The VVD reiterates that in particular the WNT2 conflicts with the principles of principle of this initiative. The WNT is now in the Official Journal and is signed by the King and by me. Mrs Huijbregts says: "Unfortunately." I did indeed point out that the VVD voted against it. I would add, for history's sake, that it was part of the coalition agreement. Anyway, of course, the First Chamber is always free to vote against. Let's not argue about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u107	Now the Minister gives an analysis of what was discussed exactly a year ago, I think I should correct him on this point and put the right context here. The VVD voted against the WNT2 because of the time it was submitted and dealt with. We wanted to wait for the evaluation and the effects of the WNT1. This is just for posterity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u108	Thank you for this explanation. That is also my reminder of the arguments of the VVD. However, if you say that it is either the WNT2 or the initiative bill before you, I cannot help the VVD group, because the WNT2 is already in the Official Journal. The scope and exceptions have also been discussed by others. I'll get back to you on that. When I reread the first term of the Chamber, I encountered a number of points which I cannot meet. Once again, I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but there were a few points that I cannot meet, such as the point of the WNT and the struggle that can seem to exist. Let me briefly discuss a few points. These are the WNT, the scope of this law and the exceptions that exist, the costs and consultation with the unions. First of all, I should like to discuss the WNT. In the treatment of the Top Income Standards Act, the aim is to ensure that top incomes in the public sector and the semi-public sector are reduced. The long discussion on this issue has extended the scope of that law. Strictly speaking, the four so-called Dijkstalcriteria apply to determine whether or not something falls within the scope of the WNT: is it a public task, is it a public organisation, to what extent public money is involved and, as a counter-indication, to what extent the same product is also provided from the market. Those are the criteria under which the WNT has agreed on who is reported in the exhaustive list in that law and is therefore considered to be subject to the Top Income Standards Act. That is indeed a different definition than that in which the question is whether someone has official status. That's what the initiators said. It's a different way of weighing down than in what's ahead here. I can't change that right now. Then I come to the scope of the legislative proposal before us. Who is included and who is excluded? Mrs Keijzer has already made a number of comments. Initially, of course, the point was to align the legal position in the public sector with that in the market. Then it was said that it was a bit complicated for the Defense and the Army. After all, they have no right to strike. It is also a little complicated to limit it to unified forces within the Defense Department. If you adopt this bill, it is true that the secretary of the Secretary of Defense has a different legal status than a secretary of V and J. Anyway, you always keep boundaries. However, we have to face that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u109	I would like to come back to the point of the WNT. I do not want to talk about the group of top executives, but about the point I have also asked Mr Van Weyenberg. Mrs Keijzer referred, very interestingly, to these two ILO conventions. If I understood correctly, she said that workers' freedom of contract would increase if this law were accepted. So I am curious how the Minister sees the tension between the WNT and contract freedom in relation to, for example, that top ICT expert, who is going to help Defense or the Tax Administration in a crashed project. We could continue to mention computer projects that have been difficult. We need very high-quality, specialised experts to do that. They can be found, but in many cases they will try to enter into a contract with the government which is outside the collective agreement and which may have different working conditions than allowed by the WNT. How does the Minister see the tension between the ILO Convention that gives that contracting space and the WNT, which limits that space?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u110	This is, strictly speaking, an issue that we can best fully exploit when the WNT3 is on the table, with the intention of extending the scope of the WNT to non-drivers in the public and semi-public sectors. Moreover, it seems to me that this is in line with the ILO Convention and that it can be implemented. If there were any contradiction between this initiative proposal and the intention to extend the scope of the WNT, I would find that difficult to do with the present initiative proposal. However, I do not think it is in conflict with each other. Mrs Huijbregts says there's tension on it, but I think it could exist side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u111	That is the Minister's legal response. In his interpretation, there should be no conflict between those rules. That's what we're gonna see at the submission of the WNT3, if it ever gets here. However, there is also a substantive issue. How does the government intend to deal with situations where it needs very specialised expertise, which it can only hire if it deviates from the standards laid down in the law? If I see it correctly, the ILO offers that contracting space, but apparently the government doesn't want to use that space. I am therefore interested not only in the legal aspects, but also in the substantive aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u112	We're comparing apples and pears now. We then have a discussion about whether a presenter in the public service should earn more than a minister. That is not a director, so it falls within the scope of the WNT3, but it may not fall under civil service law. So it has a different legal status. That is why I say that, in my view, this is different from the VVD's argument, which is two different issues, which do not need to overlap. I would therefore like to raise this matter further on the occasion of another tranche of the WNT. It would be my polite suggestion to include this discussion on the scope of your final weighing. Once again, the motivation of the initiative law as it originally existed concerned the lack of the right to strike in the defence and military personnel. That has now been extended to the judiciary and the police. I understand that there has also been a discussion on education, but let's leave that in the middle. I've already talked about the costs. I didn't really want to add to what SEO said about it, because I have already said in writing that the impact in up to 100 different laws depends on what exactly the costs and benefits will be. I cannot give an accurate or different estimate of this than it was previously on the table in an order of 100 million, which may also be of benefit in the long term. That was also suggested by the initiators. Finally, I would like to turn to a question on consultation with the unions. Mrs Barth asked for that. If this law is passed, will I be prepared to hold an open consultation with the unions on how to implement it, and the unions are also in a position to do so? The answer to that is, of course, yes. I will. As Mrs Barth may know, I also received a letter from the unions. They're asking me to respond tomorrow at the latest. If they don't, they're gonna threaten to bring an injunction. I will respond, but first I wanted to wait for today's debate. As far as I can respond, I'll give that response tomorrow. Then Mrs. Barth will know. Furthermore, many questions have been asked both to the initiators and to me, but I have had no reason to add anything to the answers given by the initiators. So I guess I can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u113	I have an order proposal. The second deadline for this bill is scheduled for tonight. But in view of the discussions we have had with the two initiators in particular, I would be very grateful if I could have a few weeks to prepare the second deadline so that I can discuss with my group the legal weighting of the arguments that the initiators gave us in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u114	I see that Mr Engels also wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u115	I would like to respond to Mrs Barth's order proposal. Because I'm curious about how many weeks we're talking about here. A few, I understand from her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u116	A request for the suspension of the debate may be made by the President or by at least five members present. I suspect that Mrs Barth and her group will manage to ensure that it belongs to five Members present, including herself. But such a request also includes the length of time for which it should be suspended. Something just needs to be decided. I think it would be wise, also in view of the Chamber's agenda, to decide that the follow-up will take place by 25 October at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u117	If you say so, all I can do is give way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u118	Or as much sooner as Mrs Barth thinks is possible. But the weeks before that, we have other debates. We can do it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u119	October 25th would be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u120	Quite frankly, the Chamber's agenda is not possible. This proposal is therefore made by Mrs Barth, who is supported by at least four of her colleagues in the group. I see enough others are supporting her proposal. In view of the agenda of the Chamber, the second term cannot be held other than on 25 October. Next week seems very short notice. I'll put this proposal to the Chamber. Whatever we could do, I would just like to point out that today is the second deadline, followed by a third deadline on 25 October. I see Mrs Barth shaking no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u121	Your first option seems to me to be the best. My group can agree to that. Just keep going on October 25th and no weird extra installments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-8.u122	That's very clear. Can the House accept Mrs Barth's proposal? The answer is yes. The debate on this proposal is suspended until 25 October.
