ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. In my maiden speech, I said I wouldn't mind being interrupted, but in the meantime I really have to drag people to the microphone to get a debate going. Let's try that with the procurement directive. To be honest, this procurement directive, this injunction from Brussels, which the Netherlands was allowed to do a little bit more on parts, is not in the interests of the Netherlands. The voting behaviour of the PVV Group is therefore taken into account. Every time the Minister comes up with regulations that are bad for the Netherlands, I will ask him to answer for them in this house, even if I am here alone again. Honestly, the cabinet also considered in many parts that our regulations were better or that this directive could be better for the Netherlands. But yes, EU. We have already talked about it: we do not have so much to crumble in the milk, we can only pay. The European Commission is negotiating on behalf of the Member States within the Agreement on Government Procurement, and if the European Commission is negotiating for the Netherlands, this can of course only lead to disappointments for the Netherlands and for our SMEs, our only real job engine. The thresholds above which tender should be tendered should, for example, not be increased. This is bad for the Netherlands, bad for our jobs and bad for our prosperity. The PVV is, as is well known, a party that is strongly in favour of trading abroad. Moreover, the share of trade with countries outside the EU is growing strongly and consistently. Many, including myself, do business within the EU and outside the EU, within the euro area and outside the euro area. Entrepreneurs will not be hindered by national borders or foreign exchange borders. Managers allow themselves to be hindered by borders, managers of multinationals who have millions of dollars to lobby in Brussels to steer the regulations where they have completely outsourced employment, relocated to Asia. Those managers prefer to let politicians do their job. The Minister said with due pride that the Netherlands ranks fifth on the list of least corrupt countries. That's good. However, a number of tenders went badly wrong: with Pon in the police, with Ordina in Limburg and with the NS. The examples are known. How can this be done in countries that are not listed in 5 on that list of non-corrupt countries, but for example in 61, Italy, or 69, Bulgaria? Does the Minister seriously think that Dutch or other foreign entrepreneurs there have the same chance of getting a tender as local entrepreneurs in Italy or Bulgaria? In the written consultation, the PVV Group mentioned the example of the Boskalis CEO, who said at the time of the storage of the Costa Concordia that only in the Netherlands European procurement is made. This was not because of the one incident, as the Minister suggests in his reply, but because of a widely supported feeling that Dutch entrepreneurs in certain parts of the EU are in advance unopposed when there is local competition and that only in the Netherlands the Procurement Act is literally implemented. In the written consultation with the Minister, the labels which contracting authorities may prescribe were also discussed. There are numerous labels, but what is their added value? FSC, a timber hallmark, washes Amazon wood white and many American universities investigated, for example, the fair trade hallmark of coffee. This was also discussed in the House of Representatives. These studies show that the workers, the coffee bean pickers, have nothing to do with all these labels. It helps the landowner, because he gets a higher price. Another group that benefits from the label Bonanza are the creators of those labels who try to shake off their guilt on the seats of the business class. I would just like to say that all these transparent, open procedures of labelling are not going to end up with anything. Actal has already established that sustainable purchasing is really only expensive and that the environment is not getting anywhere with it. The use of these labels is the result of the Procurement Directive. Isn't it time to put an axe in this sustainable forest of meaningless labels? Doesn't the Minister want to get a grip on that? After all, it makes Dutch society poorer because of higher prices. Or does the Minister take that for granted? In any case, this does not achieve the secondary objectives of this Directive, namely sustainability and efficiency. Then I come to the use of EMVI. In the case of works, this has resulted in an excessive increase in the price of tenders of 64%, according to qualitative research. Through European procurement, our roads are now being built by Spaniards for €6 net per hour, while the Dutch are on the sidelines. How many EU blessings do you want? Thus, EMVI has led to a huge increase in the cost of quotation when working. Since entrepreneurs are not philanthropic institutions, they will eventually continue to charge those higher costs. This will translate into higher offers, higher prices and more expensive work. Does the Minister have a visual on this? Is that quantifyable? Many parties have also called attention to unnecessary clustering. As far as we are concerned, this is also right, because it affects SMEs. The Minister will draw attention to this issue with contracting authorities, he promised us. That's good, but if entrepreneurs want to defend themselves against this unnecessary clustering, they have to turn to the judge, if I've read it correctly. Entrepreneurs must then defend themselves against governments that do so with expensive lawyers who are paid by taxpayers. Isn't that more easily organised, as with other topics in the Procurement Act? The Minister also states that the cluster ban provisions are correct, but that the application of those provisions is not satisfactory. Unfortunately, the Minister leaves it at that. How is he going to ensure that these cluster ban provisions are properly applied? The PVV sees major problems with and with suppliers. This appears to be virtually invisible and not at all controlled by the Procurement Act, while public procurement, Europeanly speaking, now determines 20% of GDP. More and more government servants consider themselves an entrepreneur as an employed person. They are allowed to operate marinas and take on waste disposal, to name but two local examples. But it also happens at a rich level: Minister Hennis has started her own catering company at Defense and Minister Bussemaker has the digitization of the National Archive carried out by officials without demonstrating whether financial or qualitative, or preferably both, is the right choice. That's entrepreneurship playing without competition. It is pure arbitrariness with which the government unjustly takes the business out of play. Entrepreneurs are at the mercy of politicians. These last sentences come from Ms Manunza, Professor of International and European Procurement Law at the University of Utrecht. What's the Minister gonna do about it? I know there are initiatives and evaluations across the street. However, these kinds of themes do not often come across in the Upper House. So I would like to hear what the Minister wants to do about it. How can we prevent the costs, which are ultimately paid by the taxpayer, from becoming out of control? In reply, the Minister has already said that he is based on rational considerations and political control. But political control tends to stand in the way of rational considerations. Where entrepreneurs have to bid against each other and comply with the rules and conditions, governments can do whatever they want. We would like to see that different. What's the minister like in this game? As far as we are concerned, these contracting authorities and services should demonstrate that they offer the most responsible solution. It also happens that tenders are withdrawn while market participants have incurred significant costs. The Minister considers it reasonable that these costs should be reimbursed. That's good. But is that settled? If not, will the Minister arrange this, also in order to prevent contracting parties from being too light-hearted about this? The Procurement Directive allows contracting authorities, whether jointly or not, to keep a list of economic operators who fail to carry out the contract. However, there is no European obligation. For example, malicious entrepreneurs from countries that are not so close to corruption may not appear on lists and can freely compete for Dutch assignments, whereas that cannot be the other way around. Which countries keep those lists and which do not? This could, of course, interfere with the level playing field we are aiming for. It is therefore obvious that this could be bad for the Netherlands. I'm out of time. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. If Mr Dercksen wishes to have an overview or a list of countries that do or do not keep track of certain things, a plenary debate is not the best opportunity to do so. I can't shake those things out of my sleeve. I can find out and answer such a question in writing, but I am afraid that is not possible in a plenary debate. Mr Dercksen spoke about the fact that the Netherlands is in fifth place on the list of countries with the least corruption. I hope he's as happy about that as I am. There are about 200 countries in the world. If you're part of the five countries with the least corruption, you've come a long way. Our country also has a very competitive economy. Two lists of these are held internationally. For the past year, we've gone from place 13 to place eight on one list, and from place eight to place five on the other. In addition to a country with little corruption, the Netherlands also has a very competitive economy. That is what we managed to achieve in the Netherlands, in particular the entrepreneurs and the employees of those companies. Dutch companies are also very well able to compete on the world market. They have products and services to offer that are good on the world market and at a good price. In addition, they are delivered with a good service. That's why our exports increase every year. Even now there is an increase in exports of 5% on an annual basis. That's a high percentage. Moreover, investments increased by around 10% over the same period. That also gives good hope for the future. The Netherlands is truly an internationally established country and has an interest in ensuring that opportunities on the world market are as fair and as equal as possible for everyone. Based on the quality of our entrepreneurs and the products and services they provide, we can do business in other countries. We have a great interest in ensuring that the European Commission ensures that, in the European Union, where 80% of our exports go, there are as many equal rules as possible. As it succeeds, it becomes easier for our entrepreneurs. They cannot do that themselves; they need Europe to do so. I had hoped that the same enthusiasm that Mr Dercksen has for Eurostat would apply to this subject. But that is not yet the case. Therefore, entrepreneurs have a strong interest in ensuring that European procurement rules are in place and that EU Member States comply with them. You make sure the rules are there and you talk to the countries as Commission. Where things aren't going well, we need to do better. Everything that is happening there is a movement for the benefit of our entrepreneurs and thus in the interests of prosperity and employment in our country. Of course there are still problems in certain countries. I am very glad that we do not have to look at this powerlessly and that, as the Netherlands, we should not try to achieve something with one-on-one with such a country, but that there are European rules for that, which the Commission then addresses to those countries. I understand that Mr Dercksen has shown a great deal of interest in labelling. He talks about the label Bonanza, in which its creators apparently refer to politicians and civil servants trying to shake off the blame in the business class. That's the level I have to respond to. I'm not sure what to do with that. Labels not only make you dependent on government rules, but also give entrepreneurs the chance to do things with self-regulation. In the sector of temporary employment agencies, quality standards are agreed on at the top of all kinds of legal rules, to which one wishes to adhere and to which one wishes to address one another. A label is attached to that. Of course that is not always good and of course it is not always optimal and things need to be changed, but it is a very useful expression of the desire to regulate as much as possible in a sector itself. The framework within which this may be regulated is determined by the competition rules at national and European level. I believe that labels can make a very good contribution to this. Mr Dercksen says there is a huge increase in costs. He called upon the EMFI and suggested that there would be an increase in costs as a result of the European procurement rules. However, I assume that when he examined the dossier, he saw that the evaluation showed that, as a result of the now three-year-old Procurement Act, that law was the translation of the European rules which then came into being, a cost reduction of 184 million was achieved. Perhaps again, for Mr Dercksen: 184 million savings. These rules allow a Dutch entrepreneur, if he wants to participate in an invitation to tender somewhere, to receive a free overview on the internet of all the tenders he can participate in in the Netherlands. This Dutch entrepreneur is also protected in Europe by the European rules that apply to all countries. If a country does not comply, it can be called upon by the Commission, which will enable the injured country to obtain its right. Similarly, the situation in those other countries is improving further and further. So we are saving hugely on costs and making the situation much better for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u3	This huge increase in costs for the EMFI occurs with the work component. A qualitative study has been carried out on this subject. I read the rest of the file, too. Of course, savings have been made. In addition, we have the idea that participating in a registration in Bulgaria is not very likely to give you the same assignment. The Minister is a little more hopeful about that. However, I have pointed out in particular the increase in costs in this area, which has been the subject of a quality report of 46% on work. These are very important parts, because they are mainly about our infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u4	The evaluation shows that the sum total of everything that we have done with the still relatively recent Procurement Act, which is the implementation of the European directives, has, on balance, led to a cost reduction of 184 million for economic operators and contracting authorities. By the Internet, I mean this. In the Netherlands, it is regulated that all public procurement contracts are published on the Internet in accordance with a specific model. Entrepreneurs no longer need to follow all kinds of advertisements throughout the country for works they could participate in. They can look behind their desks at any time they want to join. As far as Bulgaria is concerned, without Europe there was nothing to be done in Bulgaria for Dutch entrepreneurs. Now, because of the procurement rules that apply to the Netherlands and Bulgaria, a process is in progress for the better. If we are lagging behind, we have to act from Europe. If entrepreneurs are confronted with abuses there, they can report it, and action can be taken against it. So we're actually putting everything on the internet in the Netherlands, which we're doing very supportively towards entrepreneurs. This is also appreciated by entrepreneurs. They think this is a good way to work. They also agree with our interpretation of the amended directives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u5	The Minister does not like PVV vocabulary; that is allowed. But I would like to mention that statement by the CEO of Boskalis. He literally said on TV, even for a giggling audience: The Netherlands is the only country where European procurement takes place. In addition, he does not say that he lost a job from the Costa Concordia; he says that there is only one country where there really is European procurement, the Internet or not, and that is the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u6	European procurement rules apply to all countries in Europe. The implementation and compliance with those rules shall be monitored by the Commission. Even if something turns out to be wrong in practice, you as an entrepreneur have the opportunity to stand up to it. If none of this had happened, the entrepreneur would have stood empty-handed. Now that is not the case. If we make agreements in Europe and we in the Netherlands have a great deal of interest in this, it goes without saying that we should set a good example and contribute to this initiative from Europe in order to make it a success. Such an initiative by the Commission is not something vague from Brussels, the Commission is made up of representatives of all the Member States in Europe. This initiative was supported by the European Council, in which all EU Member States are represented, and then Parliament also agreed to it. This means that there is broad support for European policy. That is the best basis for ensuring that policy becomes a reality. I talked about the labels and the costs. Indeed, I had a long discussion with the House of Representatives about clustering. We are in the process of implementing it, by setting up a separate approach for each region. I realize very well that if you have rules, you're not here yet. You must also ensure that all these rules are applied in a practical way. We have therefore set up a separate organisation, led by Mr Huizing, which will ensure that in each region the rules are reviewed between governments and entrepreneurs, what the practical application is, what can be done better and how can be achieved. This is also possible because entrepreneurs and governments have an interest in this. Governments have an interest in getting good products and services at a good price; entrepreneurs have an interest in getting opportunities from all these governments and in winning on the basis of a good value for money. In addition to existing rules, we have organised that great progress will also be made in implementation. This is greatly appreciated by contracting authorities and economic operators. I don't know if everyone realizes what it's all about when it comes to spending. Let me give you an example. A public service wants to have copies of a particular file made at a given time and let its own people do so on their own copies. Then there are entrepreneurs who say: we also have co-operatives, and we want to do so with that government. I do not find it strange that the government itself has a view on this, as well as the government can have a view on the staff in the cafeteria. The cabinet believes that within a large ministry where thousands of people work, it is quite logical that those who do important security work or catering work are on the payroll of that ministry, just like the others who work for that ministry. That is the way we do it. We are also ensuring that the public authorities themselves can carry out the work which is part of their own task. We also ensure that the government does not sit in the business field and compete with companies. For that we have the Market and Government Act, which regulates exactly how to behave as a government when you do things that companies can also do. We have carried out an evaluation of this. On the basis of that evaluation, I have proposed an amendment to that law. It will be offered to the Chamber within a short period of time. Next, not only the Lower House but also the Upper House will have an opinion on this. On that occasion, I would like to speak with Mr Dercksen again. At this point, the government can't just do what the government wants. The government can ensure that everyone in the building is treated in the same way. I do not know who objects. I have not yet heard Mr Dercksen speak on this point. The government can also ensure that good rules are laid down for what it competes with the market. These rules can be better and we will come up with a proposal for that. I hope that I have addressed the points raised by Mr Dercksen sufficiently in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u7	Thank you. Then we have now arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. We think fundamentally differently about how entrepreneurs work. I have heard the Minister say that entrepreneurs need the Brussels rules to be able to take action. That is not my experience, and that is not the experience that emerges from our history. We are aiming for a level playing field. However, you do not need the EU to do so, and you can also agree to do so bilaterally. Together with the Boskalis CEO, I note that this level playing field is unfortunately lacking. When companies agree on labels in the industry, there is little to the contrary. I am referring in particular to ideological labels, because they often go wrong there. I find it very striking that the VVD Minister considers that the catering can be carried out by the government itself. The digitization of the National Archive is called "making copies." I find that a remarkable move for a VVD minister. It gives little confidence to the legislation that is still to come. That's why I brought a motion for a tender. I support this by quoting Mrs Manunza, the former Professor of Procurement Law, because she would like to support our position here. I quote: I therefore call for a change of law whereby you introduce an objective public test prior to a decision on whether or not to invest. In an objective way, you can test for issues such as quality, sustainability, social inclusion and environmental impact. That's exact science. It's happening all over the world. So much for the considerations of the motion that I have tabled. The President shall: Mr Dercksen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the (Procurement) Act does not provide any rules for public procurement of non-core tasks;]] [[Whereas this lacks the duty of governments to argue why non-core tasks are being carried out themselves;]] [[whereas this is wrongly outplaying the business community;]] [[Whereas this makes it impossible for contracting entities to determine whether there is a qualitative and/or price-competitive performance of tasks by public authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt measures requiring public authorities to demonstrate in advance, in the case of procurement of non-core tasks, that the performance of tasks is at least equivalent to that which would have been awarded on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34329-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u9	The Dutch own declaration goes into the trash with this procurement directive. The tender threshold does not go up while the whole of the Netherlands believes that this would be good, especially for SMEs. Also in the area of 2B services, the calls for tenders in the social domain, the Netherlands is fishing behind the grid; the Brussels towing nets leave the Netherlands with a little less prosperity. I find it disappointing, perhaps shocking, to see that no one even takes the trouble to speak on this issue. Away with us also seems to be the adadium. Not for the PVV, however. We will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Dercksen. Does the Minister have an opportunity to answer directly? That's the case, but he still needs to get the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I respond to Mr Dercksen's suggestion that it would not be good for entrepreneurs what is happening here and how we are working on European procurement rules. Mr Dercksen can imagine that if you are an entrepreneur in America, a consumer market of 300 million people with one legal system and one supreme court, it is possible to find customers from one state in that one big market, to expand your business, to earn money and to provide employment. If you want to do that as an entrepreneur in Europe, you have to deal with 28 countries and, on parts, with 28 systems. And there are 24 languages spoken in Europe. This means you're going to have a much harder time there. This means that in Europe you have much less cross-border activities than in America between states. Trade in goods and services across the borders of the states of Europe is less important than in America, whereas we in Europe have greater opportunities, because we do not have a market of 300 million people but of 500 million people. Europe is the most wealthy large consumer market in the world. Entrepreneurs across Europe have a great interest in ensuring that there is as much single market as possible in Europe. It is already good that you can cross the borders without hindrance and it is nice that all kinds of rules are aligned, but it is also very nice if there are opportunities for public procurement and tax matters are going well, better than they are now. That is why we are constantly working together to try to bring that single market closer to Europe. Those procurement directives make a good contribution to this. Eventually there is a lot of profit to be gained. Let me give you an example. If we succeed in making the internal market, both in terms of services and goods, the digital market and the capital market a single European market, then, according to the European Parliament's calculations, this could generate an additional EUR 1 000 billion per year for Europe as a whole. This means profit for entrepreneurs and employment for people. Europe can do much better, and these procurement rules are a very good contribution to this. I did not mention the digitization of the government archive as an example; Mr Dercksen comes with that. I've said your work, I've been talking about security, catering, and making copies of the house, and you can have it done yourself. I don't think it's crazy to decide as an organization to do these things yourself. That did not prevent Mr Dercksen from making a motion. It states: Whereas the Procurement Act does not provide for rules by public authorities in the procurement of non-core tasks; whereas this lacks the obligation of public authorities to argue why core tasks are not carried out themselves. Please note that there is no obligation to argue why core tasks are not carried out on their own. I think he means...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u12	No, it says "non-core tasks."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u13	I think he means to argue why core tasks are being carried out themselves and why you don't let someone else do that. I don't think it's that clear. Businesses are wrongly excluded. I don't like that either. For that we have the Market and Government Act. I am not saying that this law is ideal, which is why it has also been evaluated, and I am now considering a proposal for adaptation. I don't think this motion is clear. In order to make a ruling prior to an evaluation and legislative amendment already announced by me, it is premature. For that reason alone, I would like to discourage this motion. It is, of course, up to the Chamber itself to determine its internal order. I note that some of the documents submitted to the First Chamber are hammer pieces. They can then continue, because the Upper House believes that it is so in order, just as the Council of State sometimes gives a blank opinion because it is believed that it is so in order. There are also sometimes major debates. It also happens that a large majority of the House thinks that a piece should actually be a hammerpiece, whereas Mr Dercksen and his group feel differently about it. For me it is not disqualification from the rest of the Chamber and I do not need to disqualify Mr Dercksen or the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u15	I will close the debate and come to the finalisation of the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose that we vote next Tuesday on this bill and the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-6.u16	I shall suspend the sitting pending Mrs Lodders and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
