ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Let me say here this afternoon as an introduction to this oral question that I find it very painful to have to stand here and talk about the aftermath of the fatal arrest of Mitch Henriquez. I have also really hesitated, because the case is currently under trial and there are still decisions to be taken on possible disciplinary measures. Then politics must be restrained. But it is precisely in the interest of the authority of the police that I stand here anyway, in the interest of the ordinary officers on the street. They commit themselves daily, and they are called upon to do so. Then, of course, my first question is whether the coverage is correct. Is it true that the agents whose actions are being investigated after Mitch Henriquez died during his arrest have been told by their then boss "no matter what happens, no one will be fired"? Is that message correct? Because if it's true, what kind of signal did the leadership of the national police want to send? Didn't the then chief of police realize he didn't do his agents any favors? I understand the leadership wants to be next to the cops. Of course, it's cops who need backup. But false expectations are harmful. A we-behind-the-law-pronunciation ultimately only undermines the authority of the police. That doesn't give a pass. Eventually, it's not the police's top that reaps the bitter fruit, it's the ordinary cop on the street. He'll get this back. Not the top. Not the minister. Can the Minister comment on the reports here today? Obviously within the framework I have already given, namely not speaking about the matter itself. It is now up to the Minister to ensure that he restores confidence in the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg when she says that the events that led to the death of Mr Henriquez have had a major impact on his relatives, but also on the police officers involved and on the police as a whole. It has also led to violent reactions in society. I don't need to remind anyone of that. The Public Prosecutor's Office has recently announced that two suspects will be prosecuted as a result of the independent criminal investigation. So the criminal investigation is ongoing. The Bureau of Security, Integrity and Complaints of the police have investigated whether there has been any breach of duty. This investigation has shown that four officers are seriously absent from duty and an officer is absent from duty. The independent Advisory Committee in Disciplinary Affairs will advise on possible disciplinary measures. Before the end of the year, the Committee advises the police chief of the unit in The Hague. As an employer, the Chief Constable decides on the legal status of employees. In disciplinary investigations, this authority has been mandated to the police chief of the unit. It will decide on disciplinary action on the basis of all relevant facts and circumstances. I can therefore confirm to Mrs Van Toorenburg that that letter exists, but that was confirmed last week by the current Chief Constable. Then a judgment on the letter can be made. I'm not getting ahead of that either. In response to Mrs Van Toorenburg's question, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u3	That is a special response from the Minister. He confirms that the verdict has been made. I want to know, right now, what impact such a statement could have. Does that have any consequences in the case? Is it being followed up? Eventually, it's the ordinary cops on the street, in our neighborhood, in our neighborhoods, who are addressed to this. Because apparently the police may be so that if something happens that needs to be investigated, it doesn't matter what the outcome is. At least, if the corps line at the time has to be followed. I would therefore like a little more clarification from this Minister. The question is also whether the then chief of police, who did so at the time, is still the advisor to the current corps. What exactly is his role and how does the Minister indicate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u4	To Mrs Van Toorenburg's first question, I can answer that the chief of police as an employer makes his decisions, that there is a certain route for this and that it is therefore not up to me at the moment to make any reference to the letter, its content and any consequences. Secondly, I can confirm that Mr Bouman, as was reported to the Chamber at the time, is and has been available for consultancy work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u5	It seems a little like this minister is not going to distance himself from what has happened and so there is still an image, even now by the hand of this minister, that the police are investigating, but that it doesn't matter at all what the outcome is because it will have no consequences in the end. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is going to give up on that. Is this a subject of discussion with the current corps leadership, which, let me stress, has not said so? It's the then chief of police who said this. He said that we are doing research, but it does not matter what the outcome is, because there will be no redundancies. I'd like to know how the Minister feels about that. Now he leaves a little in the middle what he thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u6	There is no other way, because it is not only an ongoing criminal investigation, but also an ongoing disciplinary investigation. I do not want and cannot anticipate this in any way. I cannot therefore answer Mrs Van Toorenburg's questions, however understandable they may be. Of course, I've discussed this letter with the new chief of police. As I said last week, I find the letter to be at least unusual, but I cannot comment on the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u7	This is disappointing. I had hoped that the Minister would take a step towards restoring confidence in the police, but he cannot follow that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u8	Let me say in response that I do not share the conclusion drawn by Mrs Van Toorenburg, namely that this letter and what has happened here has damaged confidence in the police. Otherwise, we will have to wait and see how the procedures will end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u9	I would like to hear from the Minister whether he has made any enquiries as to whether, in other cases, such commitments have been made and whether he has said that from now on this should be absolutely nowhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u10	I have said that the letter is unusual and that everyone knows that it should not be used that there are such letters. As far as I am concerned, there is no ambiguity about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u11	I smuggled two questions into one. The first was whether the Minister knows whether in other cases such commitments have been made by the corps leadership, namely that there will be no prosecution, whatever the outcome of an investigation. Has there been any question as to whether such commitments have been made in other cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u12	I am not aware of any similar commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u13	I hear the Minister say that he likes both investigations and waiting for the results and that it is up to the Chief Constable to make a decision. I understand that very well, but can the Minister perhaps say something about the legal consequences of the commitment that has been made and, if so, are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u14	So I cannot answer that. This really is a situation that can only be assessed on the basis of the outcome of both proceedings, both criminal investigations and internal disciplinary investigations, at least the opinion to be delivered by the independent advisory committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u15	Then I understand from the Minister's reply that the former Chief of Staff spoke in turn. It may well be that both investigations lead to the fact that there should be consequences for the agents involved. How does the Minister see that? Has the former chief of police spoken in turn?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u16	That conclusion can only be drawn when the results of the investigations and the employer's decision are known. I cannot and will not anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u17	It seems that the Minister intends to say as little here as possible. We are waiting for investigations, while the actions leading to the death of Mitch Henriquez took place 15 months ago. Last year we called for this during the budget debate and then we had to wait and see. So my first question would be how long we have to wait for that investigation and whether the Minister is finally interested in taking disciplinary action. Last week during the general consultation he literally said that he was not interested in taking disciplinary measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u18	The criminal investigation will be ready by the time it's done. Then the outcome will undoubtedly be known. The same applies to the opinion that the independent advisory committee will issue at the end of this year on the basis of internal disciplinary research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u19	Once again, the Minister says: we await the investigation and must be careful. I agree with all that, but does the Minister understand that many people involved in this issue feel that something is being put under the carpet here, which simply cannot be done in our rule of law? Is the Minister prepared to take disciplinary measures in such cases after the investigation, yes or no? It's as ready as a whistle. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u20	I cannot follow Mr Kuzu's suggestion that something is being swept under the carpet, as there is a criminal investigation against two out of five agents and there is now a result of the internal disciplinary investigation, which makes a ruling on a number of agents: four times serious absence of duty and one time lack of duty. Then there is a careful journey. I don't see the carpet under which something would have been pushed. This is without prejudice to the fact, as I said at the beginning, that the death of Mr Henriquez has had a major impact on all those involved, on the families, on the police, on society, but also on the police as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u21	This is a very sad case, and it is very difficult for the next of kin to deal with. Mrs Van Toorenburg is right to say that it also has a major impact on the entire police organisation. That certainly applies to the latest coverage. The Minister does not quite want to make a statement on this, but at least calls the letter from the Chief Constable "at least noteworthy." If it is asked whether there have been incidents in the past involving similar commitments, the Minister says that this is not known. Is he prepared to investigate whether this has happened before in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u22	I'm always willing to hold a similar question against the Chief Constable. Then I will inform the Chamber at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u23	I understand the Minister can't say much about ongoing investigations, but this is a letter sent by a chief of police. What everyone is afraid of is that that idiotic letter has determined the result in advance and that there is not so much left of that independent research. After all, people just keep working for the boss. To what extent and how will this letter affect that process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u24	I understand very well that Mr Marcouch is asking that question, but I really cannot say anything about it, because that is part of the outcome of the process. So I cannot answer that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
