ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State to our home. I would also like to welcome the people who are with him and the people in the public gallery. Three speakers have spoken for this VAO. All speakers have two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u2	Mr. Chairman. During the AO, I spoke in particular on behalf of the CDA about the openness of the VWS Ministry, or rather the lack thereof, given the willingness to provide all kinds of documents requested. In particular, it concerns the CIO's opinion, which is the highest ICT official in the Ministry of Health and other documents, on which the Secretary of State later stated that it was an opinion of the Dutch Healthcare Authority. These documents state why it has gone so wrong with the introduction of the drawing right. I think it's important that we just get that information. In the meantime, journalists are launching all kinds of WOB procedures. Actually, I think it's a bit of a embarrassing display that a complete A4 is made black. And what's it about? It is about an opinion that is spoken of in we-terms. So it can never be an individual opinion of an official who has been wiped out. The CIO was appointed in a letter from the Ministry of State. He has to judge new ICT projects. It has thus been given a position and is more than just a personal policy view. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas openness is of great importance to political governance;]] [[whereas only the interest of the State is a ground for refusal to provide information to the Court;]] [[Calls on the Government, the CIO's opinion of March 2014 as well as advice from legal bodies such as the NZa on the introduction of the draw right pgb to the Chamber by way of an exchange of views,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-236]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u3	I hope the Secretary of State is now prepared to provide that information. If he doesn't, you get the feeling that the Secretary of State has something to hide. I would be extremely sorry if that impression were to arise. It has gone badly wrong with the introduction of the right to draw and it is still not going very well. It is therefore important to be open in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u4	Thank you. According to the list of speakers, I should now give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP, but I do not see her in the Chamber. I shall therefore give the floor to Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u5	Mr. Chairman. Municipalities have been given six months longer time to re-indicate people with a personal budget. It has therefore been agreed that budget holders can keep their personal budget until 1 May a.s. if they do not yet have a new indication. But the grant decisions of many budget holders, possibly around 17,000 people, have not yet sent the municipalities to the Social Insurance Bank. From the letter sent to the Chamber by the Secretary of State, I understand that people will receive a letter this week if they have to contact the municipality if their award decision has not yet been sent. I think this is the opposite world. The municipality does not comply with the deadlines, but the unrest lies with the budget holder. Budget holders will then have to call on the municipalities to make haste because they still do not know where they stand on 1 May. If there is no decision, the budget will be cut. For those who have not changed the question of care, you cannot say to them that they have to ask themselves if the municipality has not made a decision, and that otherwise it may already end on 1 May. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the Secretary of State must insist that these award decisions are made quickly and that people are given a reasonable period of time to prepare for the new indication if they receive no or less budget. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the extended payment of personalised budgets for people who have not yet had a re-indication of their municipality will expire on 1 May;]] [[Whereas several municipalities have not complied with the deadline for delivery;]] [[considers that budget holders should not suffer from the failure to deliver the award decision by the municipality;]] [[considers that a reasonable period should be allowed for the possible reduction or discontinuation of the budget in order to allow budget holders to prepare for the new situation or to raise further objections;]] [[asks the Government to enter into talks with those municipalities whose award decisions have not yet been submitted to the Social Insurance Bank and to agree on the payment of the personal budgets up to a minimum of three months after sending the indicative decision to the Social Insurance Bank and the budget holder,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-237]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u6	Mr. Chairman. The motion-Keijzer in part No. 236 is about the WOB. Contrary to Mrs Keijzer's assumption, the WOB also contains an Article 11 (1) which reads as follows: "In the case of a request for information from documents drawn up for internal reflection, no information shall be provided on personal policy concepts contained therein." The legal history of that article shows that it should include opinions, opinions, comments, proposals, recommendations and conclusions on the policies which certain persons or groups of persons, including external persons or organisations, have supported, with the arguments put forward by them. In the present case, it concerns a contribution from someone from Zorgverzekerings Nederland (Zorgverzekeringsverzekeringsverzekerings Nederland) and not someone from the Dutch Healthcare Authority (Zorgverzekeringskantoor) who has comments and amendments on a concept of the SVB. He didn't know, and he couldn't know that they were going to go public, and he couldn't take that into account either. Therefore, pursuant to Article 11 (1) of the WOB, consideration has been given not to make those comments and amendments public. I have no objection to the confidentiality of the document in question, if the Court so wishes, so that everyone can check it. I believe that we have made a reasonable assessment that meets the requirements of the WED on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u7	I think it is right that the Secretary of State should read the motion as well. In the motion I am not referring to the WOB, but to the right of information of the Chamber, where the interest of the State is a ground for refusal. This concerns national security, the Crown's unity, external relations, criminal investigations and the protection of privacy. That's what it's about. You could argue that an individual opinion of an official concerns privacy, but I do not think that is the case in this case. This concerns the CIO, the highest official, appointed on behalf of the cabinet, to assess ICT projects. It is about an opinion which the Secretary of State now says comes from a different organization than the organization he mentioned during the AO. Moreover, the opinion was drawn up in the form of a "we" opinion. So what do you mean, a "personal policy concept"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u8	You're asking the Secretary of State through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u9	Firstly, I have just said that, as far as openness is concerned, it is not just about personal policy ideas, but also about the policy views of groups and organisations. Secondly, I should like to point out that the Chamber is quite rightly asking questions. Where disclosure cannot be applied, the requested information shall be kept confidential before the Court for inspection. I would point out that the CIO opinions were also sent to the Chamber for confidential inspection, together with the whole package of documents requested by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u10	Mrs Keijzer, in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u11	Mr President, I would also like to appeal to you. It's the way this goes every time. It is said that we will keep the documents confidential for inspection. But we all know here that you cannot quote from documents that are confidential for inspection. You'll end up in very different incorruptible discussions. This is about the cabinet's duty of intelligence to every Member of Parliament. I'm asking for that information now. In my view, this is not a matter of preventing the State's interest from sending this information to the Chamber. So it's time for the government to just give them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u12	We've talked about it before. There have been debates and motions for resolutions on which a vote has already been taken. The Chamber is entitled to any information the Chamber wishes. Sometimes there are reasons why this cannot be done in public, but the Chamber can get those documents, also uncensored, so that it is able to check me and assess whether proper considerations have been made. I insist that I decline this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u13	The motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u14	In the motion in part No. Mrs Voortman asked the government to enter into talks with the municipalities and to agree on the payment of the personal budgets. This is exactly what we agreed in the previous debate, namely that we are going to do two things. First of all, we will inform the budget holder that it will end in accordance with the administration of the Social Insurance Bank. By the way, that is a regular message, which we are now sending to the budget holder as an additional service, so that they can look for themselves. We have also published, following Mr Potters' request, a list of information on what is open to all municipalities so that everyone can make the right decisions. Municipalities also point out that there can be a multitude of causes. It may be that the care is converted into kind, it may be that the budget actually ends, it may not be that it is used. That is precisely why we have asked the municipalities to provide this information so that they can make timely decisions. It would not be good to agree now that three months will be paid in the event that the care stops or is not used or if there is a conscious decision by the municipality. Arrange this properly is the best way not to continue to lapse in the error of recovery on recovery. That's why we sent the available information to the municipalities. The Chamber can count on me to engage and remain in dialogue with those municipalities which are unexpectedly insufficiently able to make decisions, but I advise against the motion asking for an automatic payment of three months longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u15	I'm trying to understand what the problem with the motion is. For those cases where those award decisions have not yet been sent, the pgb should in any case remain possible for a further three months. So that seems to be the point the Secretary of State is about. I assume he also believes that a pgb cannot end on 1 May if the pgb-holder has not yet had a grant decision at all. What does the Secretary of State intend to do about this in concrete terms? It is now April 5th, so what is he going to do for people who may not get pgb on May 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u16	There may be several reasons why there is no award decision yet. It may also be that there isn't going to be any. If the care is converted into care in kind, there will be no award decision for a pgb. Sometimes the pgb happens because it has been granted temporarily. There will therefore be no further award decision. Sometimes it has to be done, for example because the pgb is extended. That's a decision the municipality has to make. That is why we cannot, in general, extend it automatically, centrally. This would probably also extend budgets which have been converted for whatever reason, which are no longer applicable or on which the municipality has deliberately taken a decision. For that reason, I insist that I reject the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u17	In such situations, there should be a termination decision. People must somehow know what they're up to. It can't be that we say to budget holders: go and inform for yourself. I would like to look at the text of the motion, but I am looking for an opportunity to ensure that those about 17,000 pgb holders know what they are up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u18	That's exactly why we do two things. Firstly, we inform the budget holders that according to the SVB's administration, the budget ends and that they must be with the provider if that is not true. Secondly, at the request of Mr Potters, we are going to ask all the municipalities whether that figure is correct with open budgets and whether there is any reason to take further action. This seems to be the best way to ensure that municipalities make the right decisions where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u19	The motion in part No. 237 is not recommended. Finally, Mrs Keijzer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u20	No, I don't have a question, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to hold my motion because I'm going to see if I can get one of the two government parties behind the motion. I'm gonna see if they're willing to open up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-27.u21	At the request of Mrs Keijzer, I propose her motion (25657, No. 236). That is what is decided.
