ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u2	Mr. Chairman. To be honest, there is a legislative proposal before us which is actually made up of two totally different things. On the one hand, it is a question of extending temporary leases and, on the other hand, introducing the rent-based approach, i.e. a new lease policy. I wonder why you would link two completely different subjects so closely. Why are temporary rental contracts linked to a change in the rent policy? In the Minister's reasoning, both the extension of temporary leases and the introduction of the rent-sum approach have to do with the flow in the rental sector. Of course, the Minister may think so, but this is more like tying. The VVD has brought in the flexibilisation of the rental contracts and the PvdA thought with the rent-sum approach to accommodate the tenants. The latter was also worked out by a minister of VVD-huis. The result is therefore double VVD policy. The SP Group has been pointing for years to the housing shortage, the waiting lists and the lack of affordable houses. On average, people have to wait eight years. Eight years! They are then eligible for a house with a high rental price. Passage seems to be the magic word of this cabinet, but three years after the beginning of the policy there is hardly any flow. Everything is aimed at letting people on high incomes flow through, but the policy is not working. Only 3% of those living crooked according to the Minister have actually moved. So 97% of the people haven't moved. At the same time there are much less affordable rentals. Instead, the rental prices have exploded and the housing corporations and therefore also the tenants pay blue to the extra tax demanded by the cabinet, namely the landlord tax. The EUR 1.7 billion landlord levy is at the expense of investment capacity. Several investigations have shown this, but the Minister denies it. He says that there is no link between the landlord levy and the decrease in investment, while the investigations really show something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u3	The SP card rightly addresses a problem, namely the waiting lists for social housing. However, the SP also knows that this is mainly due to the asylum seekers, there is a huge influx of refugees and the status holders who get such a social housing priority. They just go first, while Dutch people are on the waiting lists for years. Why does the SP want to hold onto that? Why does the SP want to keep the borders open and allow the Netherlands to Islamicize even further with all the problems and consequences of that? We're seeing the neighborhoods deteriorate again. We're seeing the waiting lists rise again. Yet the SP says: leave those boundaries open and come to the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u4	Last year there was an influx of asylum seekers and then an outflow of status holders from the azc's. Even if that outflow hadn't been there, you'd still have a seven to eight-year waiting list. The solution proposed by the PVV, namely the closing of borders, will not change the fact that those waiting lists remain. A better solution is to put the shoulders underneath and build, build and build. In this way you ensure that the Dutch who are also on the waiting list get a house, because they have been waiting for this for far too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u5	We agree on the building. However, you cannot say that you have to build, when you do not look at reality, namely that the Netherlands is filling up with non-Western immigrants again. They end up in disadvantaged areas with all the problems that this entails. Crime is on the rise. Unemployment is rising. It costs us a lot of social services. It's priceless. Why does the SP stick to the open border policy, when its constituents become unemployed, run out of homes and will be unable to pay the medical costs? Why does the SP keep doing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u6	The SP Group was not in favour of bombing Iraq. The SP Group was not in favour of bombing Libya. The PVV Group did vote for it. Then there are refugee flows that are also coming this way. The SP is in favour of catching people who really run from the war. However, the SP is not in favour of misrepresentation, which the PVV Group does. The moment you close the borders, the waiting lists do not disappear. If you really want to get rid of the waiting lists, you have to build. I do not hear from the PVV about this, but I do hear that the borders should be closed, after which the so-called waiting lists would disappear. Then I come to the next thing. Why doesn't the Minister say, if he really wants to stimulate the flow, that there should be more affordable housing? Why is he persistently sticking to the landlord's tax that hinders construction? Why should there be all kinds of measures that might improve the flow into a paper reality, but which do not change the real reality in which the tenants sit? The inflation-related rental policy has been abandoned by this cabinet. Tenants received an additional rent increase on top of inflation, for three years in a row and depending on income. This would deal with the so-called crooked living. The question is therefore right whether the Minister thinks that the policy has really worked after three years. Has the approach of skeptics led to more flow, after all, what was the aim of the policy? The NOS launched a study in November last year to show that the approach has failed. Tenants with a higher income do not flow through. 'Cause where are they gonna go? They have nowhere to go. At the same time, there are over 330,000 low-income tenants. They pay way too much for their home. What has this coalition been doing all these years for those people whose water is up to their necks? This minister often talks about support for his policy. However, a majority of aldermen in municipalities do not agree with the Minister's policy. Most aldermen argue that affordable rentals should be added. That must be the spearhead and not the approach to the crooked habitation. What's the Minister's reaction to all these aldermen? What does the Minister say to the housing corporations? Nearly three quarters of the 57 housing corporations questioned by the NOS indicate that the approach to skewing does not work. Corporates do have more income because of the rent increases, but they have to pay them again immediately for the landlord's tax. Moreover, the corporations also see more and more tenants in financial difficulties. They set all sails to prevent the expulsions of families. It is not just low-income households that are in trouble. It also applies to households with higher incomes. What does this cabinet do? The cabinet calls these people crooked. The cabinet puts these people away as profiteers and tries to chase them out of their homes. As it turns out, other policies are needed. We need other targets. In previous legislative proposals, the Minister did not want to set concrete targets. Is the Minister prepared to set specific targets for this bill? How is this bill measured if it works? What can we charge the Minister for? Is the Minister prepared to unravel the various proposals? After all, a change in the rent policy is independent of temporary leases. Will the Minister make it two separate laws? I would like to have a reaction to this, because that makes it clearer for my group. The SP isn't negative about everything in the bill. We have seen that rents have increased by 28.8% in six years. We see possibilities to put a stop to that, but then the bill has to be split into two. I would therefore like to start with a positive point: the rent-sum approach. That's a complicated term. The rent sum approach means that the rental prices of all the properties of a landlord are taken in total and that a brake is put on the rent increase. That could mean those endless rent increases are finally gonna stop. You could even take the step to lower the rent for some groups of people. That's a good thing about the rent-to-pay approach. We support the principle of the rent-sum approach. Does the Minister also expect the rents to be reduced? What are the expectations? It is a good thing that the rent increases that new tenants receive, the so-called rental harmonisation, are included in the rental sum approach. That puts an extra brake on the huge rent increase when a resident moves. Also, the rent-based approach can reduce large differences in rental prices for exactly the same housing. The SP Group does not want this to go with excessive shocks. How's the secretary gonna prevent that? According to the SP Group, this rent-sum approach has been worked out in a way that is too complicated. The SP therefore makes four proposals to make the rent-sum approach even better. Our first question is why the total rent increase is focused on inflation plus 1%. The SP calls for the rent-to-pay approach to follow inflation. As far as we are concerned, there is no justification to increase the price of a particular product, in this case rent, more than the average price of all other products. Or does the Minister have any justification for increasing rents more than inflation? If so, which one? I have tabled an amendment or amendment to the legislative proposal on this matter. It is very important that rents are moderated. My proposal contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u7	We had a debate before about a bill. In that, Mr Bashir said: I am waiting for the bill to be built, built, built. In my opinion, he sets out exactly the dilemma that everyone in this Chamber is struggling with. On the one hand, you don't want the rent increases to go too fast. On the other hand, you also want corporations to be able to build, build, build. Mr Bashir says that he wants those rent increases to go down and that the total rent will also be lower, but he started building, building, building his speech. How does he unite these two? Where does he think the corporations can get the investments to build, build, build?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u8	The rent has often included the reinvestment, especially recently. Over the last five years, rents have increased by 28.8%. The housing corporations are richer than ever, not all of them. I have been on the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations myself, and I know that some housing corporations are not doing very well. According to the SP Group, the solution is to convert the landlord's tax into an investment obligation. Unfortunately, there is no majority for this, but we cannot justify it to the tenants to increase a particular product, in this case the rent, more than the average of all other prices. Rents may also rise by an average of 1% above inflation in this legislative proposal. We don't think we can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u9	In my term, I will also come back to the increase in rents and whether there are concerns about them or not. Has Mr Bashir calculated exactly what his amendments on rent and individual rent increases for groups have an effect on investment or the production of new homes, precisely in order to eliminate those waiting lists? Can Mr Bashir indicate what his proposals will have to do to eliminate all those waiting lists, which he is also acting against?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u10	I find it very strange to say that the waiting lists should be dealt with and that this should only be paid by the tenants. We'll all pay the mortgage interest deduction. It is not the case that only the buyers pay the tax, but there are general funds flowing there. It's very strange to maintain the landlord's tax if you want housing corporations to start building. Let us ensure that this landlord's tax can be converted into an investment obligation, because then housing corporations will build. In practical terms, this amendment means that, on average, rents should not increase more than with inflation. Given that they have increased by 28.8% in recent times, it is in fact not justified that they should continue to rise. In this proposal they will continue to rise, but now only with inflation. That's all you can actually ask from the tenants. Moreover, if you really want investment to be made, turn that landlord's tax into an investment obligation. Then I come to the second proposal. It is also very strange that some rent increases do not fall within the rental sum approach. Municipalities, housing corporations and tenants can make agreements on income-dependent rent increases that do not fall within the rental sum approach. The SP Group believes that any income-dependent rent increase should fall within the rental sum approach. I have just argued that it has been shown that the income-dependent rent increase does not really help to get the flow going. My amendment makes it possible for municipalities, tenants and corporations to retain an income-dependent component in the performance arrangements, but it should fall within the rent-based approach. Then I come to my third proposal which contributes to the moderation of rents. The low incomes and middle incomes have had to cope with substantial rent increases for years at a time. Rent increases within the rental sum approach, i.e. for individual households, should also be reduced. Therefore, the income limits of the three-year income test should be improved. The Minister's borders are too low. Households with an income above €39.000 can already face a rent increase of 4%, plus inflation. At the moment, this means that you can get a rent increase of around 5%. For example, I am talking about a cashier and a teacher who together earns €40,000, but also about a journalist and a police officer, or two part-timers. As far as I'm concerned, those aren't people you can call profiteers. The SP believes that the rent increase for more households should be moderated. Raise the limit of €39,000 to €65,000. There are approximately 165,000 households with an income above €65,000. If the minister really wants to flow, then he should focus on this group. Don't give all the other groups huge rent increases. With this proposal you avoid that around 350 000 households are faced with rent increases of up to 5%. The question is also why the Minister focuses on hard-working families with an income of €40,000. Why should they be driven out of their neighborhoods and their homes? Why do they need these huge rent increases? Isn't it good for living in their neighborhoods when they're mixed? It's also the question of where to take these people when they have to leave. There are no alternatives at all. Now they have nowhere to go. There are other ways to do that, and it could be more honest. My last proposal is about private landlords. Why does the Minister leave the private landlords out of this law? Why are tenants in the free sector declared outlaw? The SP wants homes of private landlords and corporation housing with liberalised rental contracts to be included in the rental sum approach. It is unfair not to impose on private landlords the same restrictions in the rent increase as social landlords. The dome of housing corporations, Aedes, and the Houses Association have made an important agreement to arrive at rent moderation. That's the social rental agreement. The cabinet, as well as the minister, say that they accept this agreement, but actually nothing less is true. There are three main points on which the Minister deviates from the lease agreement. First of all, there is the fact that private landlords are not covered by this bill, which further differentiates the differences between commercial and regulated tenants. The landlord charge does not disappear, while that is also an agreement made by the parties. And finally, where has the truffle that is in the social rental agreement gone? This is because if a house is already at 80% of the maximum price, the rent increase can only go with inflation. In addition, it should be possible to build in local bars. Why doesn't the Minister take over these proposals? Of the year 2016, the Minister wants to make a transition year. The current income-dependent rent increases will then remain possible for the fourth year in a row. Why doesn't the Minister choose a less bureaucratic solution? The SP Group wants the rent increases to follow only inflation in the July rent increases this year. Landlords don't have to request income data at the tax, and this gives them breath. What does the Minister think of this? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Let me start with a positive point on the subject of temporary contracts. After all, we understand that, in exceptional cases, tenants only want to live somewhere for a short time. There are opportunities for this now. We think it is a good step that these possibilities should be extended to include temporary rental contracts for properties for sale. Homeowners can earn back some of their double living expenses. The street also does not benefit from empty spaces and so it is also nice for the neighborhood if someone lives in a house. It is logical that such a housing solution cannot be a fixed contract. I also see opportunities to give status holders, for example, temporary accommodation in this way. In Limburg there is a need for this. Can the Minister comment on this? Is he going to ensure that landlords do not have to pay a landlord's tax on these properties? How is it encouraged that residential properties are not left empty for too long while certain groups require quick housing? That could also be a divorced man who had to leave his house. I would like to have an explanation of this. As I said in the debate on Mrs Schouten's initiative law, which should enable temporary youth contracts, my group considers the large expansion proposed by the cabinet to be disproportionate. We do not see any need to undermine the rights of tenants. As far as we are concerned, there are sufficient opportunities to offer temporary leases. Think of the campus contract for students or temporary residence because a property is demolished. Contracts for an indefinite period of time shall be and shall remain the standard. A proliferation of temporary contracts runs counter to that principle. I would like a response from the Minister. In answering our written questions, the Minister states that he does not wish to set a ceiling on the number of temporary contracts a landlord may enter into. So a landlord gets to do whatever he wants and the tenant has to swallow it. There may be situations where tenants go from temporary contract to temporary contract. Are we gonna go from job-hopping to rental hopping now? As I said before, I wonder where it ends. Are we going from flex work to flex hire to flex kids, with all the uncertainties of that? How can the Minister maintain that fixed contracts are the norm if he does not put the landlords in the way when he wants to increase uncertainty for the tenants? There may be landlords or even house milkers who do not offer permanent contracts at all, but only temporary contracts. The SP Group asks the Minister to limit the number of temporary leases that a landlord may enter into to, for example, 10%. Is he willing to do that? I'd like to get a response. How can the Minister guarantee that the quality of life in a neighbourhood will not be under pressure from temporary or one-year contracts? Temporary tenants have much less connection with their neighbors and the surroundings. Temporary contracts therefore run counter to the idea of integration and the prevention of division. Especially now that there are more refugees with a residence permit at this time, it is important that these people settle in. Uncertainty and a temporary contract do not help, especially if there are children in the family who are in a school nearby. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. There's been a hard fight for tenant rights and rent protection. There has been a lot of debate about this in this House. In 1947, a new Civil Code was introduced, but it was not until 1979 that the rental protection was included in that Civil Code. Only after a revision in 1992 did the rental right become integral in the Civil Code, but then only on a temporary basis. It took until 2003 to complete the modernisation process. Is it now, only thirteen years later, time to break down the acquired rights? I don't think so. I would like to hear from the Minister how his bill relates to this valuable history. I'd like a response. There are tenants in this country who have no rights at all. They are therefore not seen as tenants, but as loaners. I'm talking about anti-crackers. SP-Kamer member Karabulut has advocated that this lawless living should be made impossible. The minister didn't want this at the time, because he didn't want any extra demands or a third form of rent. But how does that relate to the five measures that the cabinet is going to take? How can the Minister justify that he does nothing to stop living in an unrighteous way and does not want additional forms of hire, but at the same time wants to enable five new forms of hire? That's a little weird and inconsistent, isn't it? It's kind of like selective shopping, like hanging your head off to landlords and leaving your tenants in the cold. Now that the Minister turns out to be such a fan of temporary leases, does he ensure that anti-cracking contracts are converted into temporary leases? That would make sense to me. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Apart from ignoring anti-cracking problems, the one-year contracts are the main concern for the SP fraction. After a one-year lease, such a lease cannot be concluded for another year. This should be a fixed contract, but the rent may be increased. That's really weird. Isn't there something the Minister can do to change that? For exactly the same house, you suddenly pay more, while a tenant will handle the house more neatly and responsibly, because he lives longer in it. A home is no longer a roof over his head but a home. It is therefore illogical and unnecessary to punish that with a higher rent. After all, a landlord also gets more security. Is the Minister prepared to do something about this? I'd like to get a reaction to this. In what way was a tenant helped with such a one-year contract? For example, if a tenant wishes to move into another home after eight months, he may not cancel the contract and must serve his time as it were. A landlord, on the other hand, has the right to terminate the contract and expel the tenant after a year. That doesn't seem entirely fair to me. What additional rights is the Minister prepared to give a tenant if he agrees to a one-year contract? Is he willing to shorten the notice period for the tenant? What guarantees does a tenant have on another property when the temporary contract expires? Is the Minister prepared to guarantee that no one will be on the street? I would like to have an explanation of this. On this point, I am curious about the PvdA Group's position on temporary contracts. The PvdA Group's tenants' working group is very clear about this, namely that the current rent protection must be maintained. That is the thrust of the motion adopted at the last Congress of the PvdA. Will the PvdA Group listen to its members or will it agree to the erosion of tenant rights? This bill is based on the idea of promoting flow. In reality, middle incomes are being further squeezed and many are getting into financial difficulties. The SP Group would have made a different choice. She would stop the landlord's tax and the huge rent increases. There's a shortage of homes, we have huge waiting lists and we happen to have a minister for Living. Why doesn't he go to work to build houses? Let him take care of the waiting lists. You don't do that by squeezing tenants financially, but by building houses. So work to be done, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u11	I waited until Mr Bashir had finished his speech before I asked him a question of principle. This question goes back to the beginning of his speech. I heard him say a number of times that crooked people are actually being thrown away as profiteers and that we should not undermine rental rights, but does Mr Bashir think it is fair that someone with €45,000 gross per year lives in a social rental house and pays €500 per month rent, while someone with €20,000 gross per year is on a waiting list for a social rental house and therefore has to wait for that cottage of €500 for the one with €45,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u12	As far as I'm concerned, the solution is not to scare the people who make €45,000 out of their homes. The solution is to build houses. That's what I'm talking about here all the time. By the way, many parties are wrong that it is financially advantageous to chase the families that make €45,000 out of these houses. That's not advantageous. It costs the taxpayer and the government money. The people who earn €45,000 are not currently entitled to rent allowance, but once they start buying, they are entitled to mortgage interest deduction. So now they're not gonna cost anything, and they're gonna cost money. Now they're delivering some money to............................................................................................................................................................................................. The housing corporations can invest that money again in building new houses to get rid of waiting lists and in the maintenance of homes. Soon, however, it will cost money. The solution is really very simple: build houses, build houses, build houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u13	Simple, that is what is often referred to as populism. I know Mr Bashir as an intelligent colleague. The Netherlands is the most populous country in Europe. We really have a very dense building throughout the Netherlands and the least forest in all of Europe. Building, building, building is therefore often not a realistic or quickly feasible solution. There are no grounds, and if there are, they're extremely expensive. So if it is not a realistic option to build hundreds of thousands of homes within the next ten years, I ask my question again. You have someone with a large income who pays a rent of €500 and you have people on a waiting list, who have been on it for eight years. What's it like? So how do we weigh that against each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u14	Then I am not in favour of scaring people who make €45,000 out of their homes. Then it's very simple. Then you have to be on the waiting list and wait for a place to be available to you. That is not the solution we have chosen. Mr Van Vliet says that it takes ten years for these houses to be built. I agree. Those houses take a long time to build. However, if you do nothing now, in ten years' time it will also take ten years for those houses to be built. You can get to work now and then you'll have something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u15	Mr Bashir lives in a different economic universe than I do. We've established that before. I'm just trying to make myself clear. There are long waiting lists, there are too high rents and more needs to be built. If you lower the rents now, will Mr Bashir's waiting lists be shorter or longer? If you are going to build up, how much of the total housing stock should then become social housing in Mr Bashir's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u16	The Economic Institute for Construction has calculated how many homes are currently too few in the social housing sector. The Minister himself endorsed that. It's 100,000 homes. They need to be built now. We need to add 100,000 homes now. The moment you start building, the stock is actually getting bigger. But you shouldn't just build social housing. You have to build in other sectors, too, so people have a choice. There's just been too little construction lately, and then you get the situation we're in right now. Then you can try to scare people out of their homes, but if they can't go anywhere, it'll stop. If people can't get out of their homes, if they can't move because there are no homes available, you can continue to increase the rents, as the VVD and the PvdA do at the moment, but the problems aren't solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u17	Then let me make a sum with Mr Bashir. There are 7.6 million homes. That means there are just over two people per house. I personally do not call that a housing shortage, but we can think differently about that. Mr Bashir is adding another 100,000. Then we have 7.7 million. My question remains, then, how many percent of them should be social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u18	I just said there's a shortage of 100,000 social rentals. I am in favour of building in other sectors as well. Maybe we can find each other in there. If the VVD is willing, like the SP, to convert the landlord's tax into an investment obligation, I can guarantee Mr Van der Linde that it will actually cost nothing. Transforming the landlord's tax into an investment obligation will ensure that housing corporations can attract debt. They then have to pay VAT on the investments. Housing corporations will issue contracts and those who win the contracts will also have to pay taxes: income tax, payroll tax and possibly corporate tax. So it can even be that it yields more and at the same time we also get houses. I think the solution is much simpler than the VVD wants to believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u19	Mr. Chairman. Your home must be the finest place on earth, the place where you live with your family, where you receive friends, where you watch TV at night or play a game, where you hang out over the hedge with the neighbors. Every place you've ever lived is a lifetime memory. It is right that we protect that place, including in the law. Your store shouldn't just be expropriated and the contract for your rental house shouldn't just be canceled. But we can also go through with rent protection. Once rented is always rented. Sometimes reasonableness is completely lost. We live in a country where people want to make their own choices. If you live in Groningen and find work in Eindhoven, you want to move there as soon as possible. If you want to be close to your parents in Haarlem as a caregiver, you also want to be able to live within cycling distance of those parents. The rental sector is becoming increasingly important in order to meet the understandable wishes of hardworking Dutch people. Well, then that market must be moving a little bit. Houses must be released and there must be a little freedom of choice in the right to rent. Many private landlords doubt whether they want to rent a property. Temporarily, she can cross the line. We are failing many people in the housing market with the current restrictions. Of course, people are looking for a practical solution. They make mutual agreements, which often work fine. Or they make a construction with the clause termination because of urgent personal use. It's usually honored by a judge. Urgent personal use is gradually the putty in the rental right: it is made for a clear purpose, but you can fix everything with it. That's what happens. Eventually, the landlord has little hold on to it. As the grounds for termination are widened and deepened in the case law, tenants in particular have less clarity. There is therefore every reason to introduce a good system of temporary leases. The most important innovation is the general fixed-term lease. It's the kind of contract that makes a new offer. It offers an opportunity for the caregiver or project worker who wants to live somewhere for a short time. The one-year contract is a major step forward. The VVD would like a step further. In the consultation version of this law it was still about two-year contracts. Apparently, they've been traded in for one year's contracts. It has not become clear to us why this has happened. However, we read in the note following the report: "It is to be expected that a longer period would lead to a larger offer from landlords." Bingo. For this reason, I have tabled an amendment to go back to the original plan, with contracts for two years. We make the law more effective and we care about people who are involved, tenants and landlords, much more opportunities to make their own appointments. One year or two, that's what you decide together. In addition to this general temporary contract, the term "urgent own use" is better developed and existing possibilities are extended. The youth contract is in line with Mrs Schouten's law, which we have already discussed this evening. The campus contract is extended so that PhD students can also be accommodated. In addition, we take measures for those few thousand families from eight people and give space to people who are abroad for a few years for their work and want to rent their home. With temporary contracts, we are taking a big step towards the flow of social housing. This coalition has improved the functioning of the housing market in many ways. Social rent has been reduced to the core task: to provide affordable housing for people with a small wallet, as Mr Bashir so wants. We encourage corporations to reject expensive homes so that they can rebuild really affordable homes. At the front door we entered the fitting test. Houses are only rented out to the target group. Whoever lives there actually earns too much because he has started earning more, is not sent away but is going to pay more. I think that's logical and reasonable. After all, it is a social provision. These measures are now effective, but let us be honest: it is expected to take a whole year or what this flow will take. By giving temporary rents a good place in the right to rent, we promote the flow where necessary. This bill also regulates the rent-sum approach. I tell no secret when I say that this has been discussed for a long time within the coalition and with many parties outside. The rent increase among corporations is limited to average inflation plus 1%, and for individual homes to inflation plus 2.5%. We offer security to the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u20	I am surprised to hear Mr Van der Linde say that the policy is working. I also see the figures, but I see something else, namely that only 3% of the people who are supposedly living crooked have moved. I say "so-called," because that's what the cabinet thinks. So 97% stayed where they were. How does the policy work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u21	I said quite honestly and clearly that it takes about a year or so before things get going. That whole housing market is a ship that comes very slowly off course. We're doing everything we can to get that done. But then I point out the good things. There's got to be an alternative for those people. If you look at the numbers, you'll see tens of thousands of free sector rentals added. Those homes are needed for the flow. At the bottom is built. There's gonna be more properties anyway. I fully agree with Mr Bashir that more needs to be built. Corporations have been lagging behind in this respect over the past few years; we have exchanged this enough here often, but you can see it getting going, even though it is very slow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u22	The cabinet wants to tackle crooked people. At the same time, the rents are increased for a lot of people. Over the last five years, rents have increased by more than 28%. How much should the rents go up before finally the flow that the VVD is waiting for, but it hasn't come yet? How much does the VVD accept? How much more can the rents increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u23	The people with the smallest wallet are constantly spared from the rent increases. They haven't received 28% in five years. Shrimps do. I agree with Mr Bashir. I also agree with him that they don't like that, but it's a fair deal. You're using a social security system. If you really don't qualify, you pay a little more. I think that makes sense. I would've stayed with the rent-for-sale approach. Over the last few days we have received dozens of messages from tenant associations. Thank you very much, Mr Paping. I understand the unrest some tenants have, but we don't throw bombs on the lease. We stay reasonably close to the social rental agreement and offer with the rental amount clarity to tenants. There are limits. If, at the annual rent increase, we are going to spare people with too big a house for the only reason that they have too big a house, then of course that flow never gets going. I hope that the umbrella organisations, which are so good to us, will put their heads together again, so that expensive skeptics can become citizens again, and thus move to an affordable home. That rent limit of inflation plus 2.5% already makes it easier to switch to a freed-up, more appropriate home. One more point of execution. Up to now, there has been a five-year or three-year assessment of income. From different sides it is suggested to convert it into an annual income test. I saw that there is now an amendment to that effect. Can the Minister respond to the pros and cons of it? Does this prevent complex income mediating? What does this do for the administrative burden? I have one final point. From the field we hear that every improvement in housing should be covered by that rent. This could put a brake on sustainability and insulation. Can the Minister comment on this? The VVD sees this bill as a major step towards a flexible housing market and as a necessary step in the relaxation of rental rights. Temporary contracts increase the supply in the private sector and promote the flow in the social sector. This is a further step towards a housing market that really functions as a market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u24	I have another question about Mr Van der Linde's amendment to extend the period from one to two years. The VVD says temporaryity is good for the flow on the housing market. If it's a year, there's more flow. If it's two years, there'd be a lot more flow. Why does the VVD not propose to abolish the fixed contracts as a whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u25	Can I answer this question again? Will Mr Bashir then support me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u26	I think it's okay for me to ask the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u27	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u28	The SP is not for temporary leases. That was also at the heart of my speech at the place where Mr Van der Linde is now standing. If the VVD says temporaryity is good, I'm curious why the VVD chooses for two years and not unlimited temporary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u29	My counter-question, of course, was a rhetorical one. I don't have any support for that. I think two years is a nicely defined whole. This also does justice to many people who are in a temporary situation. A year could just be a pinch. I also liked it in the consultation version of the bill. Actually, I just want it back. If I ever get my support again for three years, maybe we can try that. My proposal would be to evaluate it and see if this really worked. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u30	Mr Bashir, we do it in a question and a question again, unless a question has not been answered. I think this is the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u31	That question had not yet been asked!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u32	If I understand correctly, the VVD is in favour of abolishing all fixed contracts. The VVD would be for this if there were a majority in the Chamber for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u33	No. I wouldn't have said that. We are in favour of a wide range of possibilities. The ordinary rental contract for an indefinite period of time remains, of course, the starting point of the rental right. I would not have had the same conversations with these and genes as I had said: do everything temporarily. That wouldn't be our choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u34	A special element in the one and five-year contracts is that they automatically lapse. This goes automatically and then there aren't many opportunities to go to court if you don't agree with that decision. How does Mr Van der Linde feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u35	If you make an appointment for a temporary contract, that's a temporary contract. I'm trying to understand Mrs. Schouten right now. If you agreed a year in advance, it wouldn't be my choice to drag more out there with the judge. Unless she's talking about the rent height, because that's what you need to be able to get to the Rent Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u36	Mrs Schouten, you may explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u37	One element has already been mentioned. We have often discussed in discussions the circumstances in which it is not right that the rent should cease. We are talking about ceilings, for example for a year or five years, but this may also be shorter. However, there may still be reasons why you think it's unfair and want it checked by the judge. It is at the heart of our rule of law that people can go to court to fight it, if they disagree with something. Is it not a fundamental difference from all other temporary leases that this cannot be done here and that we should perhaps ensure that we keep those guarantees? This may be the case, for example, if a subsequent contract already requires a much higher rent from a person when this is not reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u38	I'm trying to follow Mrs. Schouten. I think someone can always go to court. The judge will not always declare the person admissible only if the person has a tenancy contract for a year. I don't think we ruled out anyone going to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u39	Please continue. By answers, I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u40	We're not denying a man the hallway to the judge, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u41	It's a matter of automatic deletion, so there's an automatic blow. We've just dealt with my own initiative proposal. There must be an active act by the landlord to ensure that the contract is terminated, against which a tenant may object if there are no good reasons for the termination. It seems to me to be quite fundamental that we regulate these kinds of elements properly, precisely in order to maintain the protection of rents. That is what I am looking for from Mr Van der Linde, who belongs to a party which is keen to respect these rights. Shouldn't we be tightening up on these temporary contracts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u42	That is not about going to court, but about whether the landlord should take an active action to terminate the lease that had already been entered into for a certain period of time. I think most landlords in practice will write a note to make sure the tenant leaves the property. I think this is just settled in practice. When you rent for a year, you know you have to get out. I don't think it's necessary to record that separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u43	Mr Van der Linde once again clearly states that the lease remains the starting point for him for an indefinite period of time. I am so curious about the way in which he wants to ensure that this type of contract remains the starting point. It is good that he says this here, but at the moment when there is a fixed-term contract possible in any situation, I wonder how he will ensure this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u44	After some consultation, we have included in the bill that the corporations are excluded. They're by far the biggest landlords. This is a de facto fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u45	I do not think this is an answer to my question. Mr Van der Linde says that an indefinite contract is the starting point. How does he guarantee that this will remain the starting point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u46	This is guaranteed because corporations can only offer contracts for an indefinite period, except for the special groups we have formulated. The general contract is for private landlords only. On balance, in the vast majority of cases, contracts will be concluded for an indefinite period. To make the story complete: we are also building an evaluation for this very reason, so that we can look at it after a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u47	Perhaps we will come back to this later in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u48	More contract freedom is in itself good in a market, provided that a market operates, with sufficient supply. What about that two-year temporary contract? If you want to get rid of that as a landlord, you can cancel it after two years. I imagine this is very nice for private landlords, but what about the tenant? If, for example, the tenant wishes to cancel after three months, is he liable for compensation or can he always cancel?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u49	As far as I'm concerned, mid-term notice is possible. If I understand correctly, Mr De Vries has tabled an amendment to that effect. We will support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u50	In a number of other countries you can cancel a contract earlier, but then an agreement is made about a fine. In Belgium you basically have a five-year contract. If you want to get out as a tenant, you can, but then you have to pay the landlord as many months of rent as a fine. With your proposal, it seems to be going that way. It does not explicitly include a penalty-free termination for the tenant. That is why I would like to clarify this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u51	Mr Madlener can see it as one package with Mr De Vries' amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u53	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u54	Mr. Chairman. Compliments to the Minister for Housing and National Service for returning to the area of residence with significant legislation after the new Housing Act. You've got to start doing crooked living somewhere, and that's the beginning now. In addition, the rent sum approach increases rent and housing quality towards each other. Nevertheless, I do have questions about the legislative proposal, in particular about its ultimate effectiveness. The legislative proposal consists of two parts: one on the rent-based approach per corporation and one on an income test for the real flow. Is inflationary rent increases plus up to 4% in the case of over-income a really powerful tool for "accompanied" those crooked residents to another home? You just feel on your clogs that this is not the solution to allow hundreds of thousands of crooked people to flow through. The real problem is that there is no balance between the regulated rental market on the one hand and the free rental sector on the other. How does a person with a gross annual income above €38,850, who gets a rent increase of inflation for two or three years plus 4%, find a replacement rental house, if there are hardly any? The catching up to be done in the free sector will take decades. In this context, I would also point out that the private sector is completely excluded from the legislative proposal. What is the decisive reason for this? Is that the fact that they stayed outside the agreements on the social rental agreement? Are the two sectors not closely linked? How is the free-for-hire sector going to get a boost if rents in this sector can rise unbridledly? A person who now pays €650 rent per month, for example, cannot suddenly pay €900 per month, while there is almost no choice in the free sector. If there is already a property available with a rental price between €710 and €800 per month, there are always several candidates. Above that, only those seeking housing with a significantly higher gross annual income will have a realistic chance. Can the private sector, in terms of the rent, somehow fall below the scope of the legal measure in question? I would like to hear the Minister's comments on this. I myself believe that more tailor-made work is necessary to speed up the flow of crooked people. If, for example, a person with an annual income of about €35,000 can still stay in a student home, you may need to encourage that person to look for something else. How does the Minister see the possibility of more customization? Apart from the effectiveness of the bill, I have a number of specific questions. To determine whether someone makes too much money for the social housing he or she lives in, the income is assessed by the Tax Administration. That test takes place every three years. I think that is too little and over too long. Last afternoon, in oral Question Time, I asked the Secretary of State for Finance to let us know before this debate whether the Tax Office can handle checking the income of this group of social tenants once a year. It was stated earlier that this could only be done once every three years. Well, we've just received a letter from the Secretary of State for Finance, and it's possible: the Tax Administration can take that income test once a year. My question is therefore whether the Minister can now undertake that the income test will take place once a year and that he can therefore leave the opinion on the amendment I tabled together with Mr Ronnes of the CDA to the Chamber. I now turn to the transitional period in 2016. According to many stakeholders, it is wise to adopt the rent-sum approach, which most of them support, as of 1 January 2017, so that we do not get a hybrid year 2016 with two systems next to each other. For this point, I refer to the relevant amendment, which I tabled together with Mr Ronnes. I'd like to get a response from the Minister on the date of entry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u55	I would like to comment on the previous point, whether the test should take place once every three years or once a year. Once a year is of course fairer, because the income can change. I guess that's true these days, with all thosezzp'ers. They may earn a year, but they can also earn a year less. Is it Mr Van Vliet's intention to allow rent reductions to take place when income has fallen instead of rising? Will the tenant then get the rent increase back, as it were, by lowering the rent again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u56	That is a point which Mr Madlener is right to make. The beauty of the rent-for-sale approach is that you put everything in one pot per corporation. I think that leaves open the possibility of a rent reduction. If Mr Madlener asks my personal opinion on this: if we do the income test per year, it is not for nothing, of course, and you must also draw conclusions from it if it turns out that income has been duped. In my opinion, the rent-sum approach leaves the possibility for a corporation to reduce a rent within the total. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u57	Leaving something open is something other than actually lowering the rent. So I ask Mr Van Vliet what he thinks of this. If you increase the rent if someone earns more, Mr Van Vliet supports that principle. It can also be the other way around. If someone earns less, does Mr Van Vliet think that the consequence should be that the rent is reduced to the old level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u58	I have always said very consistently: if you pay rate X on your income, you should also be able to deduct deductible costs at rate X. This also applies in this case. The circle has to stay around. If the rent is increased as your income rises, the rent must of course also be able to be reduced if the income is shown to decrease. Otherwise, you will have an impossible situation in which people are stuck with all kinds of debt problems. I'm not waiting for that. I now turn to the extension of the possibilities in the rental right to work with temporary contract models. Under certain conditions, as outlined by Mr Van der Linde, I can support that. This fits in with my own desire, which has just been outlined, to promote more tailor-made flows on the rental market. More contractual possibilities means more offer of rentals. I assume we can monitor this in the annual State of Housing from 2018. I ask the Minister whether this is indeed the case, so that we can check whether these temporary contracts have indeed produced more offers of rental houses. I see a balance in the plans of the VVD and the PvdA, as I know them now, to extend temporary contracts from one year to two years, while giving the tenant the right to cancel in the meantime. That proposal seems to me to be in balance. Moreover, to get rid of certain emotions, any tenant can choose whether to use a temporary contract. The normal instruments, the rental right with all the rent protection and the contracts for an indefinite period of time, are of course maintained. That is the starting point in the Dutch rental world and I agree with that. The cost-of-hire approach is a stretchable concept. Whether or not rents can be raised above the inflator depends on the components that make you count in the total rental fee. I will not degrade myself here to micromanagement and do not let me know what things should be in and what should be out. For this I refer to the social lease agreement, which I believe the Minister has also supported. Perhaps the Minister could tell us which of our fighters today, Aedes or the House Union, is right in the statements in question. By the way, I assume that the rent increases only count up to the rental liberalisation limit. That seems perfectly logical to me. Can the Minister confirm that? I have another question about the target groups for the income test. If you really want to work on flow, everyone who is in a social housing unit should ultimately be covered by that income test, regardless of age, for example. On this point, I am considering tabling a second-term motion, as the Minister intends to exclude certain groups, for example the elderly. The Council of State stated in its comments that it was not in a position to explain why this exception was made for the elderly. The Minister says that the elderly have to do with a reduction in income, but in order to be able to check that, do you enter an income test? Then let it go on that group. I do not want to discriminate on this point by age. If you live in a social housing unit, your income will be tested. In short, I tend to support the bill, but I expect a serious response from the Minister to my questions and points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u59	Before we dealt with this bill, we discussed another bill on rental contracts for young people. They also receive temporary contracts, for five years, with the possibility of a two-year extension. In the present legislative proposal, temporary contracts are open to all for a maximum of one year. We could perhaps do something about the waiting lists; perhaps we could shorten them by a day or two days. However, this does not solve the problem itself. Why do I not hear about this from Mr Van Vliet and other colleagues? Why don't we just build? Why don't we get the Minister for Housing and National Service to build so that the waiting lists disappear?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u60	That is an interesting substantive discussion. We just had an interrupting debate on it. If you want to build more rentals, you need to get a realistic picture of the possibilities for this. Is there land for those houses? Are there any financial means for this? How many rentals are we talking about? What categories are they intended for? On the waiting lists at the bottom of the social rental market, for the really cheap houses, I say: let us work together to make use of the investment capacity that, in my opinion, housing corporations still have in that segment. I know that Mr Bashir says that this capacity was mainly affected by the landlord levy. Perhaps there is a causal link between this, but I believe that the corporations with the guarantees of the Social Housing Guarantee Fund are still able to attract sufficient financial resources to build housing in this country. Absolutely. Only in some regions will we have to demolish it first, so that there will be room for new housing. So I say yes to building, building and building, if this is realistic. The legislative proposal now before us, which is a first step towards finally tackling skeptics, makes use of other instruments. I am in favour of flexibility through customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u61	Mr. Chairman. Our rent protection is a big asset. There may be circumstances that require temporary rent. That is what I have just argued in my term of the bill on youth contracts. There are also situations that lend themselves to this, but there must always be a big test point: are we not going to push rent protection unnecessarily far? The fixed contract with rent protection is the norm; I hear a lot of parties say that here. I think we should also try not to deviate too far from that standard in looking for customisation, which sometimes requires temporary contracts. Then the question is whether the present bill remains closest to that ideal standard and at the same time offers some space for customization. There is also another element in this bill, namely the rent-sum approach. They are two parts that, as far as we are concerned, did not have to be in one law together. In fact, I think it also causes some of the difficulty of the discussion. I note, however, that this is the case now. I therefore hope that the Minister will be able to give a satisfactory answer to our questions on the various parts. I'm gonna start with the lease approach. We are simply pleased with that part; I can say that quite frankly. Already in the housing agreement, my party has fought for us to go at some point to a form of rent-sum approach. That has been quite a spicy discussion, because if you turn on one wheel, things will happen again on the other side, causing all kinds of other discussions to pop up. So I am glad that Aedes and the House Union have come up with a proposal together. As a result, I believe that we have organised broad support for the proposal, both for housing companies and for tenants. By the way, we are getting a lot of letters in which it says that we differ on parts. It is true that this bill from the Minister is not an exact copy of the proposal, but the tenants are now asking us to take out a number of parts that I think they used to ride in first. So I'm gonna stick as close as I can to what was agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u62	I hear that the tenants should be happy with what happened in the past year. I think Mrs Schouten should move that in, because the tenant, the ordinary man who owns a rental house, has of course received a huge rent increase. This has resulted in a huge increase in purchasing power. So he is not at all happy with Mrs Schouten's agreement and with all the rent increases. So perhaps she can speak on behalf of the organisations, but not on behalf of the tenants. I wouldn't do that if I were her. They also get all those asylum seekers in their neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u63	Mr Madlener is really not listening to what I am saying. That's not the first time today. I said that precisely the proposal of the rent-to-pay approach came very much from the Housing Union and the corporations. They have acted to get that point in the housing agreement as well. That has been achieved, and we now have the effect of this. They have agreed together on this rent-sum approach. Mr Madlener now puts all kinds of words in my mouth that I have not said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u64	I felt that the spokeswoman of the Christian Union made it seem as if the Christian Union could satisfy the tenants. The opposite is true. The Christian Union supported all those huge rent increases. The Christian Union is in favour of open borders and priority for asylum seekers. The Christian Union is the party that has left the tenants hugely in the lurch. So if Mrs Schouten agrees, as far as I am concerned, she no longer has to talk about the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u65	I don't think I'm going to go into this anymore, Mr. Chairman. I am going to go over the parts of the law on which we still have some questions about the rent-sum approach. There is something not quite clear: what should we do about housing that is liberalised as a result of rental harmonisation? The Minister chooses to include the part of the rent increase that goes beyond the liberalisation limit in the rent. Should we not say, however, that liberalization has been liberalised? In the year following liberalisation, the rent can still be increased, without any consequences of the rent, so why would you include the rent increase above the liberalisation limit in the first year? Is the Minister's proposal not in danger of corporations opting for the sale of their assets, because at the time this has no impact on the rent? And that's when we all want to get more middle-priced rent. I would like to have the Minister's support on that. I also see that Mr Ronnes has tabled an amendment on this point. The rent increase for house improvement is not included in the rent in the bill, whereas I do not think this was in the agreement. When home improvement occurs in case of mutation, so when a new resident arrives, it can suddenly again according to the bill. This is not consistent. In fact, it inhibits investment in housing improvement as sustainability. It's not customer-oriented either. The Minister thereby encourages corporations to burden tenants with renovations, while corporations with Power Accelerating are working hard to improve housing in a very short period between two rentals, so that the tenants do not suffer from it. I don't think it makes sense that the renovation doesn't count when there are tenants in a house and it does count when it's between two rental periods. I see that Mr Ronnes has also tabled an amendment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u66	I hear Mrs Schouten draw a parallel with Acceleration. I thought we'd recently adopted a bill to keep the cost of that out of the rent. The Labour Party believes that such a measure should also be introduced for label jumps. If you put it in the rents, the rents will all go up and the liberalisation will continue. Then you're gonna dampen the rents less and you're gonna get above the liberalisation limit sooner. Is that what Mrs. Schouten wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u67	Then this bill is not consistent either. If it happens with mutation, so if a new resident comes, it counts according to this law, but if it happens while people live, it doesn't count. I'd say just draw one line. As far as I'm concerned, it shouldn't be counted, otherwise you put a brake on sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u68	As far as the improvement of housing is concerned, I can be a little sympathetic, but as far as energy adjustment is concerned, it seems very unwise to put that in the rent. That way you liberalize more homes. It is much wiser to invent such a measure as the epv before the label jumps. So I'm referring to an energy performance fee next to the rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u69	That is a new proposal that I should consider. The logic of one thing does and the other doesn't count, I don't quite see. Perhaps the Minister can provide more insight into that. An incorrect application of the maximum rent increase cannot be brought to the Rent Committee by individual tenants as an argument against the proposed rent increase of the individual property. So this is about the individual tenant. A corporation can get a clue if it's exceeded. It is not clear to me how this is monitored. Can the Minister explain this? Who's gonna see if a corporation doesn't go over the rent? Does the Minister agree with me that we should try to ensure maximum transparency for the tenants so that they can also check whether the rents remain within the fixed rental price? Due to adjustments at the Tax Administration, the rent sum approach can only be fully implemented in 2017, the Minister wrote to us. Next year we have a kind of mix of rent increase on the basis of income and the rent sum approach. Can the Minister explain why he doesn't choose one entry date? This could be achieved by shifting the rental price from 1 July 2016 to 1 January 2017. This makes the annual transfer for corporations easier. If they decide the new rent increase in March 2017, they already know what the rent amount was on January 1st and only have to estimate the rent amount of December 31st. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The rental fee does not apply to private and commercial landlords, even when it comes to social housing. For private and commercial landlords only the maximum rent increase per home of inflation plus 2,5% applies. Can the Minister explain why rents under the €710 of these landlords can be given a rent surcharge and are charged for landlord's tax, but could not apply to the rental sum approach? Why does the Minister not treat private and commercial landlords with more than ten homes in the regulated rental sector as corporations? I am considering tabling an amendment on this point. Houses covered by the regulated rental sector should always be covered by the rent-based approach. I'm gonna go on the income test. The income-dependent component does not fall within the rental sum approach when it is agreed in a performance agreement that the additional rental income is used for investments. Of course, such an investment incentive is nice, but how is the Minister going to check that the local performance agreements really involve additional investments? Can't corporations just easily allocate this to investments they were already planning? Isn't that what makes it a paper tiger? How can we make it clear that these additional revenues are actually used for additional investments? I also have a question about the income test and its consequences in the longer term. In concrete terms, the income test means that rent increases of inflation plus 4% will soon be possible for income above €39.000. For incomes below €44.000 this is inflation plus 2% at the moment. That really is quite an extension. It is precisely this group that is just outside of everything: one is no longer entitled to rent payment, one cannot yet go to the market and in the middle segment there are insufficient housing. We've talked about the latter many times. So this group has to deal with quite substantial rent increases, but can't really go anywhere. I'm struggling with this. I wonder how we can meet the group that gets hit in different places. This will be all the more true if the income limit is also adjusted downwards, to around €34.000. There will then be a very large group of inflation plus 4%. I am considering tabling a motion on this point, but if the Minister gives a good answer, that will not be necessary. I wonder if the Chamber should have a new weighing moment. If the discussion on the lower income limits is again taking place here, should we not decide what the percentage of rent increase should be for this group? For my group is not yet sure that this limit will be covered by inflation plus 4%. Maybe the Minister can already commit to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u70	This was also one of the points in my speech. It concerns people, families, who earn €40,000 or more. You're talking, for example, about two teachers in high school or about a police officer and a cashier; I'm just saying. Our request would be to raise the border to €65,000. People with incomes up to €65,000 do not give a rent increase of 5%, as is currently the case. For those people, you just do so moderately, also given the fact that the rents have already risen enormously in recent times. Can the Christian Union follow this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u71	I think the limit of €65,000 is very high. It is precisely the group which, on the one hand, is no longer entitled to rent payments and, on the other hand, is unable to move. With an income of €65,000 you still have some more options. This is mainly about the group of people who now have an income between €39,000 and €44,000, and later even between €34,000 and €44,000. That really is the modal group; let me call those people that. That is the group to which I would like to draw all the attention, because the group with an income that rises above that is a bit more self-reliant than the groups that the SP usually stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u72	Those groups too have had a lot of rent increases in recent times. If you're for living in the neighborhoods, you should also make sure there are mixed neighborhoods. People who earn just a little more have to live in those neighborhoods as well. If you're going to increase all the rents of people with an income from €45,000, as the Christian Union now suggests, you're going to chase those mixing away. Then you're talking about someone who makes €23,000 and someone who earns €22,000, people who make €45,000 together. Those aren't high incomes, are they? Those are ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u73	I'm not denying the latter. In general, people with high incomes are also ordinary people. The point is that this group may have a little more alternatives than the group underneath, for example because these people can get a mortgage more easily and because they can just get a more expensive rental house in the unregulated sector. The group underneath is stuck. We have been having discussions here for years about how to improve the middle segment. I can see that this is not happening yet, but that group is going to get inflation plus 4%. Besides, that group is getting bigger and bigger. That's where I care. If we do not look now at what to do about it, there will be some sort of quiet poverty. I'm getting to the point of the temporary leases. First of all, let me tell you where it is perfectly arranged as far as we are concerned: the contracts for PhD students. This is also in line with the bill on youth contracts that we have just dealt with. That can count on the support of the Christian Union. One part I'm really having a hard time with is part of the big families. Of course, it's fine if corporations offer smaller housing to larger families whose children have flown out. So far, this has often been done on the basis of customization, consultation and discussions. However, this bill will ensure that there will soon be a duty to move from a large house to a smaller one. But then you could end up in a problematic situation. Because how durable is it when your children fly out? For example, if your child is just a year in rooms and it doesn't work and it comes home again, hasn't the situation arisen that the family has fallen below the border? Also, your household can suddenly be halved by a divorce. With this bill, you'll get in trouble right away. Furthermore, the fact is that these families may have other children who are also rooted in such a neighbourhood. They go to school there and they have their boyfriends and girlfriends in the street. They all have to move because this is now in the law. I should just like to be clear: we want to delete this section. I have also tabled an amendment to that effect. Customization and conversations, as they are, seem fine to me. But how big is the problem? I think it's all very well-reviewed. Just when we're recording this now, things happen that we don't want. The trickiest question I've kept for the last time. This question concerns, in particular, the one-year contracts and the five-year contracts for self-employed housing. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, these contracts should at least not be used as a probationary period, but there is some sort of concern there. I'm puzzled about an amendment to see how we can prevent it. This could be done, for example, by making such a contract possible once and then drawing up the next contract for an indefinite period of time, so that all contracts will not be put together one year in a row. The question is how many rights such a person has. Then I come to a more basic point: can you cancel a temporary lease automatically? I was just talking to Mr Van der Linde about that. How does this relate to international conventions, such as the home protection article? I understand that Article 11. Can the Minister reflect on that? Because if a contract expires automatically, you can go to court, but then the judge will say that it has automatically expired. I believe, however, that it is a fundamental right for people to state their own reasons for believing that it is right or wrong for such a contract to end or for the circumstances why that contract should not end. That's why I'm looking for more protection for a year's temporary contracts. As far as we are concerned, it should also be possible, if someone is offered a subsequent contract after a year in which the rent has increased extremely, to test it. That part of the bill isn't part of it either. However, at such a time one is in a relationship of dependence. We did do that with the rent protection, and that should also apply here. I have also tabled an amendment which states that, as in the case of youth contracts, the built-in period of registration of fixed-term contracts will be maintained. This will prevent a person who, for example, agrees to a one-year contract because of a divorce, from losing his total accumulated registration period. I think that would be useful for everyone, including to increase the chances of flow. Then I have a number of specific questions about the one-year contracts. The Minister mentioned a range of target groups that would benefit from a one-year contract, including migrant workers, expats and people who need temporary accommodation in an emergency. Only in a spacious rental market, with sufficient offer for permanent residence, will tenants be able to use the possibility of temporary rental only by the right target groups and not by tenants who are looking for a permanent, stable living space. Can and will the Minister, in the interim, monitor whether this is going to be some kind of pilot contract? How's he gonna do that? What does the Minister do if it turns out that the one-year contracts are being misused on a large scale? I also wonder whether contracts are suitable for the duration of up to one year for all the target groups mentioned by the Minister, given the enormous diversity. I want to get one group out of it specifically. This concerns the people in social care. It may be that someone comes out of social care and needs a home very quickly. In my view, this is now an urgent matter. Why wouldn't that be enough? Why does there have to be an additional one-year contract? Doesn't that make these people extra vulnerable? Those are not the people who have the most insight into all their rights and how they can possibly flow to a permanent home. Has the Minister also discussed this with institutions such as ggz and probation? Is he prepared to ask what that means to their clients or former clients? At the same time, I see that rent protection in this proposal is better than in all kinds of precarious forms of housing, such as anti-cracking. But how can we reduce the use of these precarious forms of housing? Would the Minister be more able to back that up? I come to the five-year contracts for self-employed housing. One reason for the proposal is the agreement in the Administrative Agreement Increased Asielin Stream that temporary leases are made possible. However, the proposal goes further and allows the five-year contract for all independent rentals. The restriction of these contracts to licence holders is at odds with the prohibition of discrimination. Local authorities often aim to house other target groups in these complexes. Here too, I am considering looking at it not to terminate it automatically, but to allow a judge to pass a test, if anyone thinks that another review should be made to see if that contract can be terminated. What is even more important is how does the Minister prevent this contract, which is actually seen in a special group, from being used inappropriately. For example, we heard today that students are afraid that this will be the alternative to a campus contract. Is the Minister going to monitor that? Or does he see that additional measures are needed there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u74	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party wants to return to an inflation-based rental policy. This bill is a good step in this direction. Moreover, the rent-based approach is a brake on the liberalisation of social housing. We are in favour of this. We also believe that the medium-cost housing segment should be expanded, but rather by new construction rather than by transferring social housing. As long as there is still a shortage of social supplies, we must be very careful about that. We believe that it is justified that the harmonisation of rents should continue and that a small plus should be included in the rent. A household that has been living in a house for a long time and has improved in income now often pays less for the same house than the neighbors who have recently moved in and have a significantly lower income. That's crooked. The cost-of-hire approach is a good means of combining rent moderation and correcting unreasonable differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u75	You look so invitingly at Mr Bashir and Mr Madlener...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u76	Mr De Vries' first sentence was that the PvdA is for inflation-related rental policies. Can Mr De Vries indicate where this bill contains inflation-related rental policies? The way I read it, it says that the rents can still go up. For some higher incomes, for example people who earn €40,000, rents can be increased by 5%. The total rent is increased by inflation plus 1%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u77	Mr Bashir did not listen very carefully. We would like to return to inflation-based rental policies, and we think this is a good first step. We also see that there are still increases in this proposal which we would have liked to go a little further down, but that will have to be done gradually. We hope that this 1% will be used primarily for the harmonisation of rents, and that people who are already above 80% of what is reasonable, will hardly have to deal with rent increases over inflation. That will probably be the practice with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u78	The latter is included in the social rental agreement but not in the Minister's bill. I am therefore curious to see what Mr De Vries means by that. Mr De Vries began by saying that he wants to pursue inflation-related rent policies, but who is in charge in this country? That's the PvdA, along with the VVD. They rule. So if Mr De Vries wants the rents to follow inflation, let him take care of it. Why doesn't he take care of it if he wants to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u79	Mr. Bashir thinks you're in charge if you're in charge of the two of us. I'm afraid that's not the case. The Netherlands is a coalition country, so we have to make agreements with each other. I am not hiding the fact that this bill has all the characteristics of it. Compromise has been reached. However, I do see the perspective that the rents will go down after they have gone up for years. I think that is a really good step in the direction of another period of inflation-related rent policy. I agree with Mr Bashir that a few further steps need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u80	Do you think there's going to be elections? You'd almost think so. What I hear from the PvdA is not for the people to digest! Under this cabinet, the rents have been increased unprecedentedly. They've been increased by 11% under this cabinet in three years. I did the math. Is it really a gutter game that the PvdA is now saying it wants to move towards an inflation-based rental policy? How dare the PvdA bring that up here? How is it possible that the PvdA is chasing people like that? Is the PvdA going to give back all these rent increases to the people, because the rent increases just keep going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u81	Mr Madlener noted that there had indeed been substantial increases in rents in recent years. Mr Madlener has probably also learned that we have come out of a rather deep crisis and that 51 billion has been cut by this cabinet. Everyone has had to do their part. This also means that additional resources have been used in the rental sector to pay for these cuts. However, now that we are coming out of this crisis, we are once again seeing prospects for moving towards an inflation-based rental policy. We see this as a first step. We're a long way from being there, but a first step, we're happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u82	I dare say here that this increase in rents has made the crisis worse in the Netherlands. It was precisely because of the lack of purchasing power of the Dutch citizen, because of all the tax increases of the PvdA, that we were in such a deep crisis. How did Mr De Vries come to this? I've put forward motions for years to limit the rent increase to inflation levels. The PvdA always voted against it. Now, just before the elections, she says that this should be limited to inflation levels. It's unbelievable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u83	I really believe that Mr Madlener has not been through the discussions in those years, because there have been really heavy cuts and the tenants have also contributed to this, and that has hurt. After this period of rent increases we climb back out of the valley, thanks to the austerity policy and the fact that the economy is getting back on track. We believe that this is why we can also spare the tenants. That is the perspective that the Labour Party wants to go for. We expect that the rent-based approach will also allow agreements to be made at local level that people with low incomes who, because of their limitations, can no longer live in their own homes can move to an often expensive, adapted care home at an adjusted rent. As far as we're concerned, landlords can compensate for the rent. By appropriate allocation, these people with the lowest incomes would otherwise not be able to access a care home. We ask the Minister if he is prepared to discuss this in consultation with Aedes, the Housing Union and the VNG. The PvdA is not in favour of allowing rent increases outside the rental fee for energy measures. The question is whether the saving of a label jump for the individual tenant actually outweighs the extra rent. As far as investments in label jumps are concerned, we see much more in a scheme similar to that recently made possible for zero-on-the-meter houses. We know that a scheme is being studied and ask the Minister to come forward with proposals in the course of the year. Does he want to promise that? The preparation of the bill has taken a lot of time. We understand that, despite the haste that is being made with the introduction of the rent-based approach on 1 July, it is still problematic. If it is necessary for a careful introduction, we can live with the suspension of the introduction of the rental fee approach until 1 January 2017. Calculation of the rental fee per calendar year also has advantages in terms of execution, but we want the absolute guarantee that the promised rental fee will start for the incumbent tenants as of 1 July. If it is postponed to 1 January, the PvdA is considering submitting a motion to ensure that the rents will rise by no more than 0.4% above inflation on 1 July instead of the 1.5% it would otherwise be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u84	The Minister proposes a transitional year for this year. The inflation-based rental policy plus 1% will only start from 2017. The SP Group proposes to introduce the inflation-based rental policy as early as this year, i.e. from 1 July 2016. Additional advantage is that a lot of housing corporations then no longer need income data. You know what you're up to and you just follow inflation. Does the PvdA Group agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u85	We want the rent increase on 1 July 2016 to be up to 0.4% above inflation. That doesn't go to income, it goes to the whole group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u86	Mr De Vries himself just said that he is in favour of inflation-related rental policies. So we can arrange that from 1 July 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u87	You can arrange that on paper, but Mr Bashir thinks that everything...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u88	Mr Bashir had not finished his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u89	The rental policy has had a huge impact on the tenants in recent times. People have received up to 28% rent increase. We can't keep confronting them with any more rent increases. Will the PvdA Group support the SP's proposal to allow rents to follow inflation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u90	We have learned that in this Chamber together we must look for majorities and compromise. We believe that we have come a long way with regard to the rent moderation. On 1 July the rents will not be increased further than 0.4% above inflation, if the motion we are considering submitting would be adopted. That is a huge step in the direction of an inflation-based rental policy. We count our blessings. The SP may want to jump on for free, but unfortunately we will not get a majority for that. Even if we voted in favour of the SP proposal, there would be no majority in this Chamber. We would like to see a viable proposal from the Chamber later on. The PvdA notes that no rental fee can be introduced for private landlords and has difficulty with the Minister choosing to set the maximum rent increase for these landlords at 2,5% above inflation. We very much regret that the domes IVBN and Vastgoed Belang do not wish to sit down with Aedes and the Housing Association for the conclusion of a social housing agreement. We would like the Minister to make agreements with the private landlords on rental, in particular a moderation of the rents for the houses which already have a rent of more than 80% of what is reasonable under the housing valuation system. Also at local level, municipalities and tenants could engage with private landlords to moderate the rents. In addition to the value of the property, the payment capacity of the tenant could also be considered. Is the Minister prepared to talk to the domes of private landlords? In their social housing agreement, Aedes and the Woonbond agreed that they would come forward with proposals based on an ABF report to address the skewed housing, propose to get the people living in a relatively cheap rental home moving, and propose to accommodate people living in a relatively expensive home with low income. There are still no such proposals. If they do, is the Minister prepared to consider a change at a later date and thus trigger the House Union and Aedes to make agreements? The Minister himself has chosen a three-year income test. The PvdA understands the urge to move people with a relatively higher income in order to move to a middle-priced rental house or a commercial house, but then those homes must be there or come very quickly. Again, how does the Minister see that? With a fingernip, those apartments aren't all there. Making people pay more to move them to leave for an alternative home that is not available seems unreasonable to us. Moreover, the PvdA wants to adhere to the principle of mixed neighbourhoods. When it comes to speeding up people on higher incomes through harmonization to a level of rent that is closer to the maximum level of rent, we find that acceptable. If the income test has that effect, we support it. For these situations, an annual income test could be chosen without too many problems. It is easy to implement and prevents people suffering from falling incomes from having to wait a long time for reimbursement and have to object to a proposed rent increase for two years. The PvdA wonders why the figures of the Nibud were not taken into account when determining the households exempted from the income test. We wonder what the Council of State has said about this. The figures of the Nibud clearly show that especially the multi-person households with four or more persons and even with an income well above €39,000 hardly have room for rent increases. We ask the Minister, in particular, to exempt this group from the income test and the additional rent increase. The bill does not provide for measures to reduce the cost of skewing. And that's what the PvdA thinks is crooked. It is precisely low-income households that suffer from excessive rent. They could be exempted from rent increases or eligible for rent reductions or corporations could give them priority in finding a cheaper home. Why didn't the Minister include this in his proposal? There's two sides to it, isn't there? Or does the Minister say that agreements should be made at local level because of the large differences in the housing market between regions? Is the Minister at least prepared to speak to Aedes and the House Union again about this? I come to the temporary leases for specific target groups. By making use of the "urgent own use" clause, the landlord must re-lease the property to someone in the target group after the end of a rental contract. The guarantee that this will be maintained promptly is important to us. The note following the report states that the previous tenant may then go to court for damages, but that is a very shaky form of enforcement with a high threshold. Is it not obvious that the Minister, as a system manager, can enforce through supervision by the Authority housing corporations of the ILT against landlords who repeatedly violate this provision? We understand the measures to allocate the limited number of large social housing units to families, but this requires much more care than is included in the legislative proposal. It cannot be that families that have become smaller are asked to move without providing an alternative suitable home in, if possible, the same living environment. We consider a duty of care similar to an appeal to "urgent own use" for an adapted care home at least necessary. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. The fourth point is the one-year lease. The introduction of temporary leases would not have been proposed by the PvdA itself in this form. We are therefore very critical of a proper application. Firstly, we would like to be given the undertaking that these contracts should be applied in cases where the provision 'use by its nature of short duration' is still being used improperly, a provision intended for holiday homes for temporary residence and after hospitalisation, but which is now also applied to groups which have to live temporarily elsewhere for work or study, for tenants who need a change of residence, tenants with assistance or in emergency care and tenants with whom a second or last chance contract is concluded. We would consider this to be an enormous improvement for these groups, because the improper use of the provision 'use by its nature of short duration' does not give them any legal and rental protection. Does the Minister agree with us? Secondly, we want the Minister's firm commitment that contracts remain the norm for an indefinite period of time and that he will closely monitor that the temporary leases are not widely used for a kind of trial period. The Minister states in the note following the report that, in addition to an evaluation after five years, he can also carry out intermediate measurements. We would like these intermediate measurements to focus on the misuse of temporary contracts as a trial period. Furthermore, we consider working with temporary contracts by corporations to be less appropriate because of their objective. We have tabled an amendment which provides for temporary contracts to be used only for the target groups mentioned above, for which a temporary contract improves. Furthermore, in the case of temporary contracts, we find it undesirable that the tenant cannot cancel in the meantime. If he has to pay the rent for the entire duration of the contract, even if he has previously found another property with a lease for an indefinite period, unacceptable payment problems arise. We have tabled an amendment on this point too. The law states that the tenant may also ask for a test of the reasonableness of the initial rental after the expiry of a one-year contract. Now it says explicitly within 18 months. We would prefer this provision to be more general, namely that such a test may be requested for temporary contracts up to six months after their expiry. I tabled an amendment on this together with Mr Van der Linde. We believe that more clarity is needed about the transition from a temporary lease to an indefinite contract. The Civil Code now regulates for housing that a temporary lease automatically turns into an indefinite contract if the use is continued with the consent of the landlord. We assume this will remain so. However, the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal states that the one-year contract will be terminated automatically. We consider that to be contrary to the intention of the Civil Code. A new lease means that the landlord can confront the tenant with a significantly higher rent. We believe that the tenant should be protected from this. We also consider it desirable that at least three months before the expiry of a temporary contract, the landlord should clarify whether continued use is possible. We assume that the Minister agrees with us that the tenant should know in good time what he is up to. Is he willing to secure that in his bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u91	Mr. Chairman. The housing market policy of this cabinet is more like a vulgar tax increase. I just found out in an interrupting debate that the PvdA doesn't know the difference between budget cuts and tax increases. Those are very different things, aren't they? The rents have increased enormously in recent years. The PVV has voted against all these rent increases and has constantly tabled motions here to get those rent increases off the job. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved and as a result most tenants have had 11% rent increase in the past three years. These rent increases, of course, simply charge as interest on interest. If I count on the 2.5 million social rentals in this country and an average rental price of €500 per month, you'll come up with extra income from the corporations of about 1.7 billion. That is quite a coincidence, because that is also about the level of the landlord's tax. The corporations have thus been given room by this government to increase the rent by 1.7 billion, it will be a little less, but about...... and at the same time the government has skimmed those corporations by 1.7 billion. The corporations have thus become an extension of the Tax Administration. That is what the PvdA and VVD policies, supported by D66, Christian Union and SGP, have looked like: a vulgar tax increase at a time of economic crisis, in which people need purchasing power improvement rather than tax increases. The PVV wants to keep social housing affordable for people with a small scholarship, but also for those with a middle income. This is also good for our economy, because these 2.5 million households are a huge group of consumers. The additional taxation of this group through rent increases is not only detrimental to their wallet, but also to our economy. The money is being skimmed from the public and ends up with the government, which doesn't do good things with it. That's obvious. It is given to Europe, to asylum seekers and so on. What exactly is crooked living? It's a bit like Mark Rutte's leveled raisins during the election campaign. You buy a bag of raisins and you suddenly pay more than your neighbor because you deserve a little more. That is what Mr Rutte called very undesirable during the elections. Let me give you another example. Suppose a MP, myself, drives an Opel Corsa. Then the cabinet says to that MP: "You earn €80,000 a year and then you drive an Opel Corsa, which is way too cheap for your salary. You should at least drive a Mercedes. This will result in more tax." So I'd get some kind of fine because I'm a crook. I drive too cheap a car. I do not want to give the cabinet any ideas, so I hope that this will soon be forgotten. But it's too crazy for words, isn't it? I'm free to choose what I want to spend my money on, right? I understand that's less taxing for the cabinet, but I just don't feel like buying an expensive car with all that bpm. We have the highest car cost in Europe in the Netherlands. If I don't feel like it, but want to spend it on something else, that's just personal freedom. That's what we're here for. All taxes are being increased and taxes are being raked over the back of the citizens. That is the reality. There's nothing to do about the housing market. A healthy housing market does not mean that one citizen pays much more for the same house or the same raisin or the same car. The citizen must have freedom of choice and decide whether he or she wants to live in a cheap house or spend his or her money on something else. Is it bad that there are higher-income people living in these affordable homes? They're often in disadvantaged areas. I think we should be pleased that there are still people with a little purchasing power living in social housing. As a result, they raise income levels in the deteriorating residential areas. We should not pretend that these social rental homes have been paid with 100% tax money and are not given to fat-earning people. It's not like that at all. Up to €700 per month is paid for a simple home. We're not talking about abuses here. They really aren't gifts from the taxpayer to fat-earned people. If a landlord or housing corporation pays good attention to the costs, it is just possible to be profitable, even with a social rental house. In addition, most social rentals are very cheap in the books and are largely written off. I would also like to mention the private landlords, because they too would be bound by a much lower ceiling. We're not against flowing in itself. Of course, you like to do flowing when you're improving on it. Most people want a higher rental price or a more expensive purchase house, but of course they have to get a really better home for it and have the money for it. That's where the shoe is. In the Netherlands, the social housing is sometimes better in quality than a more expensive home. The PVV does not want to chase people out of the house, but believes in flowing through temptation, by offering a really better home for something more money and freedom of choice. Get purchasing power so people have money to spend. Most people just want a living career. It is really not the case that there are people who, at a young age, dream of spending their whole lives in social housing. It's not like that. People want a living career. That's sometimes an affordable place when they start and go to a larger house when they have children, and maybe someday they'll go to that detached house. That's a motivation for people to work hard, to do their best. If that flow doesn't start, there are other reasons. It's mostly the offer. Let's make sure the supply of attractive homes improves. Make sure people have some money to spend to choose. Confidence in the future is very low, partly due to government policy. If you don't have faith in the future or you can just lose your job because you're a vzzp'er, you don't easily assume higher obligations. You don't do that if you earn €40,000 a year, because that's not that much. That $40,000 just goes away when you lose your job. Of course, times have become very uncertain. So I understand that people aren't jumping at all to go to such a very expensive place, with all the obligations of that. It's really not like you're gonna pick up your shit again and go back to your social home, with all those waiting lists and asylum seekers, who have priority. If tenants want to cancel, the deadline is now legally always one month rent. With one month rent you can always get rid of your rental contract, even if that is a temporary contract or if it is with a private landlord. That's actually nice. My question is whether it will remain that way. It can't be that you're gonna get all kinds of fines when you're a tenant. We've already seen it: if you're on a one-year probation period, you don't just move into a place. After all, you need to buy curtains and carpet and maybe clean up the house. Those are all expenses. Then you're stuck a little bit. If the landlord says you can stay there, but that you do get an extra rent increase, then you don't really have freedom. Well, then as a tenant, you've been a little cheated. That's not so much a probationary period as a form of con. It's a decoy. Then you can pay. Of course, that is not the intention. I'd like the Minister to respond to that. I want him to at least rule out any rent increases after that one-year probation period. The problem of the waiting lists of these cheap rental houses is greatly enhanced by the open border policy of this cabinet. We all know that. The Netherlands does not have social housing, but allows hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers and relatives of asylum seekers to flow without sufficient housing. I find it a disgrace that a minister for Wonen has no regard for this at all and to my questions about how this can be done and whether he would like to make a point of this in the cabinet: these are international treaties; I am not about that. But he is the Minister for Living! This creates enormous problems on the housing market, not only with waiting lists but also with crime in the neighbourhoods. We all know it; the mistakes of the 1990s are repeated here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u92	Mr Madlener's transmitter is always well-targeted, but does the receiver ever turn on? There has been extensive talk in the Chamber about building extra semi-permanent homes. The Labour Party has put forward a plan to build 100,000 additional homes, precisely in order to absorb that extra flow of refugees and prevent displacement. Has Mr Madlener escaped all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u93	I didn't miss the fact that the PvdA has come up with pretty unachievable plans. I haven't seen those apartments yet. I haven't heard who's paying them either. I think that will be the Dutch citizen again, who will get additional tax increases or perhaps rent increases. That's not good for our country, and it's not just about living. Those are non-Western immigrants for the most part. They don't want to be a Westerner at all. They just want to bring their own culture. They're not gonna adapt. They don't have a job. They're gonna be unemployed, criminal. We all know. You shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u94	I'm gonna distance myself from all these generalizations. I just want to get back to what we were talking about. That hundreds of thousands housing plan was provided with all sorts of calculations, both of the land costs and the construction costs. That included calculation models, but Mr Madlener did not want to look at them, because he wanted to draw on his own real estate history. He wasn't interested in those plans. To say that the plans are unfeasible while they are ready-to-use is one-sided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u95	I've been able to see the PvdA's plans. I saw pretty unfeasible house prices in that. I believe you should be able to build a house for €30,000, including the land, the facilities, the roads and the sewage system. Everything's done and done for $30,000. I think a lot of Dutch people think: "Damn it, I would like to, but for me they don't, but they do for the asylum seekers! And that's the truth! And one hasn't been built yet. As far as we're concerned, they're getting a tent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u96	That's entrapment. We have advocated building 100,000 homes for all those looking for housing, not exclusively for asylum seekers. And it's really disturbing that you don't listen to each other when you're debating each other. I do not think that is the case in these debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u97	I wish the PvdA every success in promising 100,000 homes for almost nothing. I wish Mr De Vries every success, but he knows that the reality is very different. We live in a densely populated country. Land prices are high. The municipalities, also PvdA-municipalities, have it in the books for towering prices. And then Mr De Vries comes to give us free land? He doesn't believe it himself, does he? Anyway, I'll help him hope. I hope there are a lot of Dutch people coming in from those beautiful, fine affordable homes. For now, all I see is people getting bullied out of their homes. That's the other side. The PVV also finds it a disgrace that asylum seekers, who have not done anything for our country, get a home right away and get priority over social housing. The cabinet opens the borders and is blind to the consequences. On 8 October, the Chamber adopted a motion to end this priority for asylum seekers and rightly after all the commotion in the country. People are obviously very angry about this. They have to be on a waiting list for years, and then someone like that goes for it. The Chamber has passed a motion to end that. However, I do not see anything. We've been months. The cabinet has just sent a proposal to the Council of State and says that it may be coming to the Chamber just before the summer recess. Then it has to go to the First Chamber and there is another advice to follow. The Minister does not seem to be interested in this proposal at all. He thinks: if I stretch it enough, we'll have elections soon and I don't have to explain that difficult message. That's not how it works. I have therefore tabled an amendment which, with one stroke of pens, achieves what the Chamber has promised: the removal of priority for asylum seekers. The amendment has been tabled and if it is adopted, it is ready. It is then part of the law and the problem is solved. The promise of the Chamber is then fulfilled. I wonder what this Chamber's promise is worth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u98	I hear that Mr Madlener of the PVV has tabled an amendment to solve all the problems at once. I'm curious about its contents. Let us see a fictional scenario for us, in which the borders are closed and no asylum seeker enters the Netherlands anymore. Will the waiting lists be fixed? Don't we have seven or eight-year waiting lists?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u99	The waiting lists are not only partly solved, but also the integration problems, extra crime, extra care, the schools, you name it. All these problems will be a lot less serious. Believe me, our country cannot cope with the arrival of hundreds of thousands of non-Western immigrants. We saw this in the 1990s. Mr Bashir has also seen this in his neighbourhoods. We must not repeat the mistakes of the 1990s. We really shouldn't. I hope that the SP will also see once again that the supporters of the SP are not waiting for all these problems to be brought in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u100	The minute you close the borders, the waiting lists aren't gone. They still exist. You still have to wait seven or eight years to get a social rental. The reason for this is that too little is being built. There's hardly any construction. Something must be done about this. You have to build, build, build. I have just heard the PVV Group and nothing has been said about this. Mr Madlener now says that the problems will be solved if the borders are closed. That's not true. He's turning people in front of the eyes. Be honest! Tell me what it's on and don't tell me things that don't add up!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u101	I have just heard Mr Bashir talk about 100,000 additional homes. Does he know how many asylum seekers the Netherlands will receive in the coming years who all need such a home? I don't think we'll even make it with the 100,000. What's he talking about it doesn't solve the problems? Of course, you should start with that. I think Mr Bashir is totally out of line when it comes to what needs to be done. I agree that we need to build, but not just in the social sector. We disagree on that. We have 2.5 million social housing in the Netherlands. These are generally very simple, sober and cheap homes. That's good, and they're needed. What needs to be added to the market are houses with more qualities. They could be a little more expensive. There are plenty of people who want to flow to a nicer, better home and who also have the money for it. If you manage that, the Netherlands gets a bit more beautiful, the flow starts and we are both satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u102	Mr. Chairman. The flow into the rental market is a good thing. Ideally everyone who wants to live in a rental house lives there in an appropriate way. This includes a rental price that fits the quality of the house and the income of the tenant. However, the practice is that this ideal situation is far from complete. Many people have too high income in relation to a low rent. Minister Blok often points this out. However, there are also too many people who have to do with a small income and a high rent. These are 300,000 expensive crooks. These are, for example, people who saw their income fall because they lost their jobs because of the crisis. The policy of this cabinet has further reduced the willingness to move among tenants. A lot of people don't move because the future lease policy is uncertain. Like the purchasing sector, the rental sector needs rest. There should not be new rules every year. Tenants can then make plans with some certainty and find a house that suits them, both in terms of quality and rent. The CDA Group hopes that this law will finally bring peace. Does the Minister regard this law as a lockdown or are there any other system changes coming to the tenants? In my speech, I would like to deal with a number of cases under four separate headings. The first heading is "the rent sum approach', the second "temporary rent', the third "the starting date of the rent sum approach' and the fourth "the income test'. The rental sum approach allows landlords to make the rental price more consistent with the quality of a property in the long term. The new rental policy can promote the flow of current tenants. Everyone agrees on that. But why doesn't the rent-out approach apply to the private landlords? If private landlords do not have to march along with this, private sector rents may increase more than housing corporations. In fact, it embarrasses the market of private landlords. Does the Minister think it is a good development that the differences are becoming so large? The law states that in determining the rent sum the rental harmonisation in the event of the change fully counts. This also applies when a dwelling is liberalised. We believe that if this harmonisation of rents is included in the rents for liberalisation as a whole, there will be much less room for rent adjustments in social housing. This restricts the intended functioning of the rent-based approach. The CDA wants it to be regulated in situations where housing is liberalised in such a way that only that part of the rent adjustment to the liberalisation limit is included in the rent sum. The amount above the liberalisation limit will not be included in the rent and should be earmarked for investments in new social housing if this is or is fixed locally in performance agreements. Therefore, the CDA has no objection to the liberalisation of rental houses, provided that housing is added at the bottom. As mentioned above, this can be done nicely with local performance agreements. The Amsterdam rental market is different from Ameland's. Liberalising more expensive rentals can even fill the gap in the rental market of homes with a rent around €800. There is a lot of demand for this, but corporations are not allowed to build them, and the market simply does not. That's how we create an investment impulse. Just where rentals fall from the socially regulated part, such an impulse makes sense. At the top, expensive rentals fall out of a system and at the bottom we get new affordable rentals. We have drawn up an amendment for this change. The calculation of the rent is not clear to us in situations of housing improvement and sustainability with sitting tenants. It is now the case that in the case of housing improvement and sustainability, rental adjustments are made which are covered by the rules of rental harmonisation. The rent can't go up immediately, but goes up smoothly. The law now states that in determining the rent sum, the rental harmonisation in the event of the change is fully taken into account. This also applies in situations where the house is improved or preserved during the change and is given even better quality. However, when the property is improved by sitting tenants, the rent increase related to the improvement or sustainability of the property does not count in the rent sum. A difference is made here that seems very illogical to us. In the case of mutation is counted, but not in the case of seated tenants. It's just that mutation that's a good time for a corporation to take care of a rental house. By fully including harmonisation in the determination of the rent without taking into account the improvement achieved in the housing situation, there will be a negative incentive for housing improvement and sustainability. After all, it limits the possibilities of recouping the planned investment. Finally, it is also a negative incentive for achieving climate and energy objectives. We have also tabled an amendment for this amendment. I'm getting to the "temporary rent" part. The CDA considers it positive that there will be more opportunities for temporary rent. With the initiative of the Christian Union, which concerned young people and start-ups, we agreed. However, the Minister is taking a big step forward. It's the story of giving one finger, and then the minister takes the whole hand. The Minister's proposal raises the fear that housing corporations too would like to get rid of leases for an indefinite period. With the new law, that's possible. Anyone can always get a one-year temporary lease, while living is a fundamental right. We also know a legal history whose common thread is that by law we want to protect the vulnerable position of the rent. This is contrary to what the VVD spokesperson said: that corporations would not be able to give temporary leases under this law. They can do that with the current law. However, I understand that there is an amendment in the making that will add that. As it is now formulated, corporations can completely switch to temporary leases. They probably won't. We know the corporations as decent institutions, but if it is not regulated by law, tenants depend on the goodwill of the casual corporations. To what extent does the law actually mean the destruction of rental rights? The introduction of temporary rental contracts also makes it possible for the landlords to raise the rent again and again. Private landlords in particular will want to make use of this, but who would rule out the same path for a poor corporation in need? In addition to job insecurity, we will also have to deal with housing insecurity. For this reason, we have tabled the amendment with the following aim: to limit the possibility of concluding temporary leases provided for in the law to a few target groups and not a generic option to offer temporary leases, but to target groups. According to the Schouten Initiative Act, the target groups of young people and students could already be appointed. You could do this by identifying other target groups later via an AMvB. The House will then, according to our amendment, be involved in a pending procedure. Moreover, this is somewhat in line with what has been introduced by the Labour Party. The law states that corporations may carry out an income test once every three years for resident residents. If the income is higher than the EU target group limit, the corporation may charge a rent increase of up to 4% on 1 July. The CDA has already indicated that we think an annual review is much better. The legislative proposal leads to additional administrative pressure on corporations as they have to keep records for each household when the income test has taken place and whether or not an objection has been raised. Tenants will have to assess each year whether the income used and the rent adjustments based on it are still applicable. This could lead to situations where income data is no longer up-to-date, causing tenants to face too high or too low rent adjustments. According to the CDA, that could be smarter. To remove unnecessary administrative burdens on both tenants and corporations, it is better to do the income test annually. This reduces the risk of incorrect determination of income and associated objection procedures. It also reduces the risk of cheap distortion in situations where household income has increased above the income limit used in the test. We have also prepared and tabled an amendment on this. The last point is the starting date of the rental sum approach. The CDA wants to question the starting date of the rent-sum approach. According to the Act, the remuneration approach is introduced for the corporations as of 1 July 2016, the rent fee being calculated over the period from 30 June to 30 June of the following year. The CDA would like the law to include that the rent sum approach starts on 1 January 2017 and that the period for which the rent sum is calculated runs from 1 January to 1 January of the following year. An amendment has also been tabled to this effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u103	Mr Ronnes addressed a wide range of implementation issues related to the €39.000 limit. Let's talk about the group itself. According to the cabinet, which has written this bill, people who earn more than €39,000 are the top earners. Does the CDA share this view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u104	No, we do not agree that they are top earners, but you will have to go to a model with which you get movement in the rental market, so that the quality of the property is paid for and so that the level of income is also looked at. This system attempts to do so. The CDA recognises that in that group there is still the necessary pain from €39,000 to €44,000. That has already been mentioned by the Christian Union and clearly put on the table. Questions have also been asked to the Minister. In this period we are waiting to see whether there are any movements to be expected at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u105	Finally, I'd like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u106	This group has been paying much more rent in recent years, up to 28% more in the last five years. In concrete terms, this could involve two people earning €20,000 each. Those aren't top earners, are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u107	No, you can't hear me say that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u108	They don't pay any more taxes, do they? Then why would you have to ask for more rent from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u109	I like the way you're trying to tell me, but that's not what I'm saying either. I have indicated that these are not top incomes and that you have to deal with this very carefully. However, you will have to go to a system in which affordable quality homes eventually emerge that are somewhat in line with the income of the residents concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u110	Mr. Chairman. For a long time, D66 has been deeply concerned about the state of the housing market. One of the biggest problems facing the housing market is a huge lack of flow. That's why we're discussing the law on the lease market today. In a quick procedure, this law was thrown into our laps at Christmas. It is made up of two parts: firstly, the rent-based approach and secondly, the temporary hiring. Apart from the fact that both legislative proposals deal with the rental market, they have little consistency in substance and could be dealt with separately. This type of tying of legislative proposals has seen both the Lower House and the Upper Chamber before. Neither room was served by that. The First Chamber recently felt so blocked that it adopted a motion, the Hoekstra motion, to prevent this type of tying in the future. Therefore, the following, somewhat procedural questions to the Minister. Why did he choose to combine the temporary rent and the rent-sum approach in this bill? Could this be reviewed? Does he think the Hoekstra motion applies here? I'm switching to the content. First, I'm gonna go into the rent-for-sale approach and then I'm gonna go into the temporary rent. In our country, about half a million people live in social housing, whereas they actually have too high a income for that. This prevents the flow. Therefore, an income-dependent rent increase has been introduced in the rent-based approach. This rent increase is based on a three-year income test. For D66 this three years is somewhat out of the blue. People with a flexible income in particular, Mr Madlener has already spoken about the zzp'ers, who are likely to suffer from this three-year income test. They may initiate an objection procedure if their income has fallen, but such a procedure takes a long time and success is certainly not assured. That is why the D66 seems the easiest thing to do. I have also heard Mr Van Vliet and Mr Ronnes about it in order to introduce an annual income test instead of a three-yearly one. Does the Minister recognise the disadvantages of a three-year income test and is he prepared to replace this test with an annual income test? D66 has always been in favour of the rent-sum approach. It was also in the agreements in the housing agreement. We are therefore pleased with the agreement that Aedes has concluded with the House Union on this point. Indeed, the rent increase in the rent-based approach can play an important role in removing waiting lists and reducing skews. That's a good thing. However, this rent increase can also work strangely. Let me illustrate this with an example. Imagine an ordinary gallery apartment. In that apartment, every house is the same: a beautiful four-room apartment, a perfect family home. Two families live in two of these houses, which I call the De Vries family and the Van der Linden family for convenience. Neither family pays the maximum rent of €700, while the income of both families is above the limit of €39.000. So both families are crooked. The De Vries family has lived there for fifteen years and pays a rent of €400 per month. The Van der Linden family came to live there three years ago and pays a rent of €600 per month. That rent was harmonised when the family moved. Both families get a rent increase on the basis of the new system, but with that something strange is going on. The De Vries family pays €20 per month more, being 4% increase plus inflation, and therefore goes from €400 to €420 per month. The Van der Linden family, also on the basis of 4% increase plus inflation, will pay €30 per month more and will therefore go from €600 to €630 per month. Because of the new system, the difference is not reduced, but larger. The Van der Linden family will pay €120 more in rent per year than the De Vries family. So the difference in skewed living is only getting bigger. D66 considers it extremely unfair that this bill spares the biggest skeptics the most. That is the way the system works. Does the Minister not find this strange and does he not know any other solution? Would it be possible, for example, to base the 4% plus inflation on the maximum rent, or on the maximum permissible rent according to the housing value system? Sorry about the technique! Or would it be possible to introduce the rent increase in staffes, as the agreement also said, which would give people who pay less than 40% of the maximum permissible rent a higher rent than those who pay less than 80% of the maximum permissible rent? It's all very complicated, but this is intertwined in the systematic. I will continue with my example and return to the aforementioned gallery flat. Next to the family De Vries and the family Van der Linden lives an older gentleman, in the same four-room apartment. This is Mr Barry, who I called him, because I think he was a bit of an old grumpy bitch that was pulled into the flat 30 years ago and therefore pays a rent of €250 a month. Mr Barry, too, should not live in a social housing unit on the basis of his current income, which is high. However, since he is retired, the bill will not give him a rent increase of 4% plus inflation, but no rent increase at all. An exception is made for pensioners. D66 does not understand why pensioners such as Mr Barry, who have enough income, should not be living in a social housing unit and therefore living crookedly in fact it is Mr Barry who is the most crooked person in the flat that is granted an exemption on the basis of the present bill. Why did the Minister choose to exempt pensioners? Does he think this is fair, given the big difference in income position? Of course there are poor pensioners and richer pensioners, but why did the Minister give pensioners a special position and not, for example, large families or other groups? I'd like a response. I see that Mr Barry wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u111	Mr. Barry remembers that your pension was 70% of your last income. That's what my dad taught me back in the day. But then D66 came and he wanted to reform everything. Then it suddenly became 70% of your middle income. Bam, away promise! Then D66 came up with: that calculation rate actually has to be calculated quite differently. Come on, let's get a discount on it! Then D66 came... and so on. In other words, from that promise I learned from my father, your pension is a good investment, good thing you do, that you have to build up. So Mr. Barry is in that apartment with his retirement, but there's nothing left of his promises, thanks to D66. So I think Mr Koolmees should also think about what he has meant to pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u112	Sure. I do not know what promises Mr Barry's father made. I wouldn't have done them if I'd been the father. But, of course, the simple question is: what is the income? For all people in rental homes we assume the income. They could be high-income people. If you're retired, you could have a high income. You can also be retired and have a much lower income. Then I'm very much in favour of a lower rent for those people. Of course. But if the income is really much higher, why should we distinguish between retired and not retired?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u113	Finally, I'd like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u114	Because the pensioners have already been caught more than enough by D66. But apart from that, I'd much rather someone just pay for the house he rents. And sometimes you've been renting for a long time and you have a lower rent. That's just the way it is. Well, then you're lucky, and then maybe you're gonna sit around a little longer, but let's not make it a problem that people pay too little rent. This means that they have more money left and can pay more in the shops. Then the shopkeepers are happy again; then they don't have to go bankrupt. So a little purchasing power is also nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u115	I am very much in favour of purchasing power, which is why I supported the reduction of the burden. However, Mr Madlener cannot deny that we do have a major problem in the rental market. We've had waiting lists for decades that people don't interfere with. We need to do something about that. I think this is a good step in the right direction, but there are some hooks and eyes on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u116	Mr Bashir, a brief interruption, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u117	It seems like a very nice neighborhood, nicely mixed. I would like to live there, especially next to Mr Barry. But I don't understand the problem. It is a very nice, mixed neighborhood with varied incomes and varied people, who enjoy themselves. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u118	The problem is that we have very long waiting lists in the Netherlands and that a lot of people cannot go to the housing market. Houses that are actually meant for low-income people are now not available to the people they are meant for, because there are people in them for whom they are not meant. That is a big problem, and there are other problems. Indeed, there is also a lack of middle segment. We've all heard that today. There needs to be more flow and more offer. We all agree on that, but the fact that we have had a disturbed housing market for decades, which leads to social problems because people have to wait eight years for a good home, I find a really big problem. We need to do something about that. It is also our responsibility as a parliament to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u119	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u120	I don't see any problems, because people who make a lot of money also pay a lot of taxes. They don't get a rent supplement and they don't have a mortgage interest deduction. They pay a lot of taxes. They contribute most of all of the people who live on that street. If there's really a problem with the waiting lists, D66 should just suggest building. And I do not hear Mr Koolmees say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u121	I find it striking that Mr Bashir has been confusing a few things in his speech all evening. I very much agree that we need to look closely at the income position of different groups in society. We have taxes, surcharges and a lot of income-dependent schemes for that. I can also see that the group that Mrs Schouten has just spoken about, which is not entitled to any supplement or any kind of compensation, is indeed excluded. All this has to do with all these different income-dependent schemes. But then it is not the solution to put even more income-dependent schemes in the homes. Then you have to make sure that the housing market works better and something really happens to the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u122	This Van der Linde lives in a store, as you'd probably already assumed. However, I am somewhat sensitive to the sum of your magic, with which you argue that the difference is made greater. The big problem, of course, is that if we don't watch out, we're going to end up in all kinds of complicated stuff. Then we make the system completely incomprehensible to every Dutchman. What happened to that D66 plan from a few years ago? D66 then said: anyone with an income above €60,000 or €70,000 will either buy their rental house or leave or pay a market rent. I thought that was elegant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u123	That was a few years ago. That was before the settlement agreement. In the housing agreement and with this law, a number of steps are taken to ensure that the rents become more market-oriented. An unintentional effect of this system has to do with the largest skewers. The other day we had a little debate in committee on the figures for the housing survey. This shows that 50% of people with an income above the border live in a rental house with 50% to 70% of the maximum permissible rent. So that's where the biggest crooks are. I've struggled with this, too. I have an amendment and a motion in preparation for a solution. In the housing agreement there was a stale approach, so the biggest crooked people pay a little more. But the poor crooks could be met. I think that's a nice thought. I ask the Minister whether he recognizes this, whether he agrees with me and what a possible solution would be, and then proceed with the amendments I am struggling with. The Minister wrote in the answers to the written questions that the investment capital of corporations will decrease by 75 million euros as a result of the rent-based approach. According to the corporations, this will have increased to a multiple of these by mid-2020. This will allow them to invest significantly less in both existing and new homes. As a result, sustainability will remain behind; at least that is my fear. In the major cities, it is indicated that earlier agreements on sustainability cannot be reached. Does the Minister recognise the facts and figures presented by the housing corporations? Does the Minister believe that housing corporations will invest less in sustainability thanks to the rent-based approach? This follows on from the discussion that Mrs Schouten and Mr Ronnes have just had. Does the Minister intend to do something about this? If so, what exactly? I've come to rent temporarily. For D66, renting for an indefinite period is a principle that we should not overdo. After all, a man must have a great deal of certainty about the fact that he can live. The situation in some other countries, where temporary rental is really the norm, scares the hell out of us. At the same time, I see certain groups for which temporary rentals offer a solution. I think about young people and foreign students. That is what I said this afternoon in the debate on Mrs Schouten's own-initiative proposal. It can provoke supply and it can promote flow, but can the Minister assure us that renting for an indefinite period remains the norm? I had prepared a lot of questions about this, but I have seen that there is an amendment by Mr De Vries, which already contains a restriction. As far as I am concerned, these are improvements. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this amendment. Then we can see in second term whether this is going in the right direction. The bill shows that a tenant with a temporary contract cannot terminate his contract within his annual term. This contrasts with the flexibility that a temporary contract should offer. Does the Minister agree with me that the tenant should be able to terminate a one-year temporary contract at any time? Can the law be amended so that this is the case? Mr De Vries has been in favour of this too. He has tabled an amendment which I am sympathetic to. However, I await the Minister's reply. This bill certainly does not deserve the beauty prize. It contains two parts that have little connection. Both parts, however, can be made with some cuts and here and there some amendments can be made into a proper legislative proposal, which can bring about the much-needed change in our rental system and promote the flow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u124	I'm reopening the meeting. We will continue with the debate on the Wet flow rent market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u125	I'd like to make an order proposal. We're dealing with an important law tonight and we can, of course, try to complete that legal process. I understand that there are 18 amendments and there is quite a bit of confusion among the participating colleagues as to whether we all still have the overview. I understand that two notes of amendment are on the agenda tonight. Taking all that into account, it might be wise to do the second term next week so that we have everything quietly in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u126	I will see if others will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u127	On behalf of the SP Group, I support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u128	My vote is threatening to fail, so I also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u129	If that letter of amendment comes, I would prefer to suspend for ten minutes so that we can see if we can continue. It'd be better if we could finish the job tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u130	I'd rather finish the job, too, but if there's a need for suspension, I'd be happy to work with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u131	By suspension, you mean we'll finish tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u132	Yes. I have been able to keep up with the amendments so far, so that should work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u133	In view of the many amendments and the letter of amendment that I understand is still to come, I think it is very healthy to do so at a later date. I can imagine that the Minister will do his first term first and then suspend for a moment to see how we proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u134	Apparently, there's going to be something I don't know yet, so I still can't tell if that's complicated. I think the subject is important enough to look at it quietly. In principle, therefore, I am not against a suspension and proceeding at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u135	There is no majority in favour of holding a second term at another time. I therefore propose that the Minister start with the answer to the questions asked. However, I would also urge Members of Parliament to intervene at a time when it is really necessary. Otherwise, we can stay here tonight, even with a second term, until we are quite late. Don't move, I mean. I'm sorry, I have to put it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u136	Mr. Chairman. The debate on order was already about the pace of this law being dealt with. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for the urgency of the matter up to now. As far as I am concerned, the urgency of this legislative proposal relates to the following. If we want to have an effect on the rent and we also want to give the First Chamber sufficient time to look at this law, it is important that we should be able to vote on the bill next Tuesday. Rentals or increases usually take place on 1 July. I would like to say again that this should not be at the expense of care, but it would be a pity if we did not succeed in bringing into force this summer the rent-free allowance laid down in the law. A number of speakers pointed out that this law has several components. First of all, it's introducing a maximum rent. Secondly, that is a periodic income test. Thirdly, this is the introduction of some forms of temporary rental under a number of conditions. The coherence between these components, which many asked for, is clear to the cabinet. Any intervention on the rental market, e.g. introducing a rental fee, has an immediate impact on the offer. When I talk about supply and demand, I know that Mr Koolmees always looks at me critically. I can see him nodding now, too. What a rent sum of inflation plus 1% does is to reduce the average space for rent increase. It was on average inflation plus 2.5%. That was the average of the income-dependent rent increase there was. The economist, as well as anyone who thinks logically, realizes that this means less revenue and therefore less building. I would like to look at Mr Bashir in this regard. So that has implications for the offer. It also has behavioural effects, because as the rents increase less, the difference between the market value of a property and what people pay slowly but surely increases. That takes a number of years, but the difference is growing. So this also has an effect on the flow. In fact, we are of the opinion that this flow deserves attention. That is why this law sought balance. First of all, it is about implementing the agreements contained in the housing agreement. The last outstanding appointment from the very popular housing agreement is that there would be a proposal for a rent. It took a little longer than planned, because it was hoped that housing market parties would come up with a proposal themselves. In the end, two major parties have reached an agreement, unfortunately, that was not all the parties involved and it has been pinned on inflation plus 1%. I want to follow that inflation plus 1%. I attach great importance to an agreement between important parties in the housing market, but I run into the effects on the rental market that I just mentioned. I can partially overcome these effects on the rental market by continuing to apply an income test. Strikingly enough, that was a delicate point when it was introduced three years ago, but it is now said, also on the side of landlords and on the side of many corporations, that it is a good point. So the income test is one. Another instrument is the simultaneous introduction of temporary leases under strict conditions. That is a long-standing discussion. Before my time, the Christian Union and the CDA have jointly tabled a motion asking to look at the possibilities for temporary leases. I believe that this was in the time of my predecessor, Mrs Spies. This led to extensive consultations with the housing market parties. Indeed, it has been confirmed that in a number of situations there is a need for more space for temporary leases. This law also provides for this. Since this will also allow new offers to be released, the introduction of temporary leases in this law will ease the disadvantages of the rent as it is now introduced. This is a reason for the cabinet to say: as a single package, we think this is a responsible law for the flow and affordability of the rental market. If you pulled a piece out of it, the balance would fall out of the package. In that case, it is no longer a law for the cabinet to give the necessary impetus to the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u137	I have a comment to make. The Minister says that research has shown that there is a need for fixed-term contracts for a number of groups. Doesn't it make sense for you to name that target group in the legislation you're making instead of giving it a generic exemption?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u138	Both things happen. Sometimes it is useful to mention specific target groups. Mrs Schouten's law, which we discussed earlier, went into that. But the proposal also includes large families, for example. In addition, suppliers, both housing corporations and commercial providers, have also asked for temporary leases. They think, for example, of people who, after a divorce or a break-up, need housing very quickly but who are also willing to leave them again, of people who, because of accepting a job, need temporary fast living space, which is actually not legally possible for people who, for example, come from social care or detention and who cannot be properly assessed or who do not live independently, cause inconvenience to the residents. So there are a lot of cases to think of, also on the supply side. Housing corporations will not be so eager to use that one-year contract, but we know from private landlords that there is restraint in offering homes. We have previously discussed the strange phenomenon that private homes are empty, for example in Parkstad Limburg. The owner therefore has an empty house and no income, but apparently he is not taking the step to rent out anyway. When you talk to individuals, especially the small individuals, you also hear that they just find it scary. They have the image that they can never get rid of each other again. So it's not so much a probationary period for the tenant. I absolutely share the notion that everyone actually spoke out: a rental contract for an indefinite period is the standard, that is the standard rule. But there are situations where it can be very important for a landlord to know that, without complicated maneuvers, one can break up again after a year or a shorter period. So you can create an extra offer. This fits in well with other measures in this bill, which you can logically conclude to reduce the supply. I will answer the questions in a number of chapters, as I usually do. First of all, I will deal with a number of general questions about the housing market, then with the way in which the rent has been introduced. Then I will deal with the way in which the income-dependent rent increase is introduced, then with the way in which the temporary leases are introduced and then with a number of separate issues. I shall then give an opinion to the amendments. First of all, a number of general questions. Mr Bashir asked why, in reality, the flow is not being promoted. I fear he supported this with an incorrect calculation, which confuses percentages and percentage points. He said that figures from the Tax Administration that I sent to the Chamber show that there would only be 3% extra flow in the last three years. That's not right. For the part of the tenants who live crooked, about a quarter, the figures of the Tax Administration show a decrease from 26% to 23%; let me finish. That is also the only part of the tenants in which this flow is stimulated. For the part of the tenants in which the flow is stimulated, the decrease is not 3% but three percentage points, i.e. 10%. Again, we are getting an extensive evaluation, but in a housing market which, by its very nature, never reacts very quickly, I find a 10% reduction in three years quite hopeful. Then Mr Bashir asked for this and he always brings it with a lot of bravado why the minister does not build houses. Mr Bashir also knows that I do not stack these stones on top of each other, but that the housing corporations, private investors or developers do so. They build at the moment when they can get a location and if they can pay back the cost of that building. That is why it listens so closely that we still offer the opportunity to recoup those investments. That is why I will not recommend the amendment to freeze the rent increase to inflation, because that would mean that all the costs incurred in building houses could rise by no more than inflation. This means that the wages of the construction worker can rise by no more than inflation, that the wages of the employee of the housing corporation can rise by no more than inflation, that the wages of the people in the brick factories and cement factories cannot increase by no more than inflation, that land prices cannot rise by no more than inflation. That's not how the world works. To a large extent, Mr Bashir will not want that either, because he does not want the wages of all those people I mention to rise by no more than inflation. In order to continue building an ambition that I share with Mr Bashir, you must make it financially possible for investments to be recouped. Mr De Vries asked for an open point; that the Housing Union and Aedes both say that crooked living is a problem and that they want to deal with it together. When I announced this law, I said that I felt it was my responsibility to come up with a proposal to deal with both expensive and cheap living crooked, because that is a big problem, but of course I would look into whether there is a proposal from both sides that I can deal with. I regret to say that this proposal did not come forward, when I think the problem is very serious. That is why I have already taken a concrete measure in the Housing Act with the appropriate allocation against long-term skews, in order to protect low incomes from over-rentals. Now that no other proposal has been made, I have proposed a simpler continuation of the income-dependent rent increase already contained in the housing agreement. Then I will go into the questions that have been asked about the completion of the rent. I will start with Mr Bashir, who asked me if I expect the rents to be reduced by the rent-based approach. I expect this to be done first and foremost by appropriate allocation. That is the most targeted measure. It doesn't rule out the cost-of-hire approach. Technically it is possible, because she calculates an average rent, but again, I expect the greatest effect from that other measure. Mr Bashir also asked why I did not include the statement from the social rental agreement in the law. The agreement states that in the case of rents below 80% there is a reasonable rent increase of inflation plus 2,5% and in the case of rents between 80% and 100% maximum reasonable plus 0%. I did not do that because the social rental agreement states that local tailor-made arrangements are possible for that part, provided that they do not exceed 2.5%. For those rents below 80%, the increase can be set locally at another percentage. This 2.5% cannot be set at a higher rate, but at a lower rate, which Mr Bashir will welcome. If I were to lock that down in the law, that local customization that was just agreed on would no longer be possible. Mr Bashir asked with some others why private landlords remain outside that rent-based approach to inflation plus 1%. I have a number of reasons for that. At the time of the conclusion of the housing agreement, the agreement was made that there will be a rental sum approach while maintaining earning capacity. The average of that income-dependent rent increase was inflation plus 2.5%. A lower rent therefore affects the earning capacity and thus the investment capacity of landlords. The agreement between Aedes and the Woonbond is a fine and voluntary agreement, but the private landlords were not involved. I find it contrary to my earlier commitment to say to them: although you were not at the table, I am going to limit your earning capacity. I do not think that is purely in the sense of making agreements. In addition, it also leads to the reduction of investment capacity. I also have two practical reasons. Private landlords are generally small and then it is not possible to calculate an average rent. If you have ten apartments, only one of them gets out every couple of years. A second reason is that I have a supervisory and sanctioning tool in the form of the Housing Authority which can take action at the authorised institutions, the housing corporations. Private landlords don't have that. In total, therefore, I have four reasons to choose for this. For private landlords, there is in fact a simplification of the space offered by the income-dependent rent increase. That is not a fact, as Mr Ronnes said, because the earning capacity remains on average the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u139	I notice that the Minister is solely reasoning from the landlord's wallet and he doesn't talk at all about the tenants' wallet. Those private-sector tenants, including the regulated part of them, are faced with the 2.5%. In my opinion, it was a real reason for the Minister to talk to IVBN and Real Estate Interest again, to see if the tenants in the regulated part could be spared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u140	It's not like it's a total rent increase. It's an average. For some it will be an increase. In doing so, it is important that those who are entitled to rent payment are protected by that supplement. In contrast to the income-dependent rent increase, higher incomes will have a slightly lower rent increase. So for some people it's a progress and for some other people it's a decline. Mr De Vries' question is whether I want to talk to private landlords. Of course, I am always willing to talk, but, once again, I had made a commitment that I would not affect their earning capacity and I feel that I am committed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u141	I understand that, but then it still remains within the starting point of the 2.5% average total, to talk about the possibility for certain groups within that regulated part that are vulnerable to lower rents. I would ask the Minister once again to discuss this again. That in itself doesn't change his bill, but it does ease the pain for those tenants with a small wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u142	I'll never refuse to engage in a conversation. Of course, I regularly sit around the table with both the social landlords and the commercial landlords. So I'll be happy to start talking about that, but I understand if I'm thrown in my face, but you did make us a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u143	The argument that the Minister mentioned that most private landlords are small does not really strike me as decisive, because there are also large institutional investors, but that aside. My concern is that with an average increase in rents of inflation plus 2.5%, private-sector rents are falling further and further away from the rents in the regulated sector. That means you're not gonna promote the flow eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u144	This is about social rent, isn't it? I assume that Mr Van Vliet is referring to the flow from social rent to free sector rental. For free sector rental we have no legal restrictions. And again, a lower percentage than 2.5 means limiting the space for rent increase. I wouldn't think that was right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u145	If there is no limitation at all, are the rents growing away from everything regulated in the Netherlands? So how are we going to promote the flow? That was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u146	2.5% is also regulated. Unregulated is that part of the rental market, the part above €710 in the month, which is not subject to any legal limitation. The free sector also remains regulated, but instead of an income-dependent rent increase, which could also be set at an average of 2.5%, it has become a flat 2.5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u147	So it's worth not sitting at the table. That's what it turns out to be. We are talking about the regulated sector, for which rent payments are also paid. Soon the situation will arise that the corporations will behave neatly and ensure that the total rent does not exceed inflation plus 1%. In that case, they will have to rely on their own capital, but they will also have to control the rent payment fairly well. On the other hand, we give the commercial landlords the space to increase the rents even more. In addition, they make greater use of the rent allowance and have more power left over themselves. How does the Minister justify that distinction between those two groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u148	This is an inevitable consequence of giving up the income-dependent rent increase. The income-dependent rent increase targeted us to avoid the lowest incomes most. At the same time, that is the group that relies on the rent allowance. By deciding on a rent payment while maintaining earning capacity......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This measure is less aimed at low incomes. Again, the fact that the House Union and Aedes have said on their own that they do want to reduce earning capacity is a reason for me to say that I would like to participate in that. I do take accompanying measures in view of the flow and supply, but I would like to contribute to this. However, that does not suddenly relieve me of the agreement that a rent retains earning capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u149	It also did not prevent the Minister from introducing the rental charge for the commercial landlords. That does not seem to me to be the strongest argument. If the Chamber decides we're gonna do that, we're just gonna do it. That is why I have tabled an amendment. I think it is very unfair that those who take their responsibilities and say that they will control themselves, the corporations, get the lid on the nose while those who ran away from the table, the commercial landlords, get away with it. Anyway, I have tabled an amendment on this. I hope it gets the support of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u150	I will discuss that amendment later, but Mrs Schouten is actually blaming me for coming to my agreement. The agreement was that a rent would be made while maintaining earning capacity. I can't violate them unilaterally, can I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u151	The Minister may submit legislative proposals here and the Chamber may decide whether or not to approve them. The Minister can therefore make a proposal along these lines. I would like to return to Mr Van Vliet's question. I think he has a point: if you moderate the rents in the social sector and at the same time release the rents in the free sector, these two will be very different over time. At least that can happen. It doesn't promote the flow. I don't understand why the Minister doesn't see that and why he doesn't want to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u152	There are two serious confusions here. The first arises from Mr Bashir's wording that the rents should be released. They won't be released. Social rental in the private sector has a maximum legal rent increase of 2.5%. That's just the average of the +1.5+2+4 that is now possible on the basis of the income-dependent rent increase, no more, no less. It hasn't been released. There's no effect on the flow. What we normally mean by "throughput" is the flow from the social hire of people with a better income to either the free sector rental or to a buying house. For the free sector rental, there is no change in the space for rent increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u153	Passing through is flowing through. We're not suddenly introducing a new definition of flow, where...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u154	I agree with you very much, and that is why I also use the same definition of the free sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u155	Then that is the definition of the Minister, but not of the SP Group. When people flow through, they flow through. As soon as a part of the homes is released, with the Minister talking about 2.5%, but another part is not released, you impose new barriers. Of course, there's no denying that. If the free sector also retains the freedom to increase rents, additional obstacles will be created.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u156	This really is a total confusion of speech. The cut is in the market for social housing. Exactly how big it is, we will map further, but the cut is up to €710 and not above it. There we want more offer, but the part where Mr Bashir's care is up to €710. This law is only about that part when it comes to the rent increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u157	I suggest you go further, because you will come back to this point. Then you will have the opportunity to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u158	Among other things, Mr Van der Linde asked whether every improvement in housing was now covered by the rent. The law is drafted in such a way that a rent increase due to the improvement of the housing of a seated tenant is not covered by the limitation of the rent. Then it can be passed on without any consequences. When the house improvement is only made at the time of change, it is covered by the rent-sum approach. I think that's also the way the social rental agreement was written down. That says something about what is taken into account in house improvement and what happens in case of a mutation. Mr Van Vliet and others after him asked whether it is logical that the increase in rent going beyond the liberalization limit should also be included in the calculation of the rent. The housing agreement between Aedes and the Housing Association indicates that liberalisation is also covered by the rent sum calculation. I don't read that this piece is out of the question. I've tried in this law to take this appointment nicely. Mrs Schouten asked how to monitor the correct application of the rent and the correct application of the 4% extra space if it was also agreed that they would be used for additional investments. In either case, the Housing Authority can ultimately supervise this. It seems logical to me that the tenant's representation should first ring the bell, but in the end the Housing Authority can act. Mr De Vries asked whether I still intend to come up with a study on whether the energy performance compensation could include not only zero-on-de-meter housing, Power acceleration and similar projects, but also label steps. I said in a debate a few weeks ago that I would examine it carefully. I cannot guarantee that this will succeed, because it is simply complicated to calculate an energy performance fee when the energy bill does not go to zero on average. However, my willingness to examine this carefully remains. We need to look together to see if it's workable in the end. Mr Ronnes also asked other people to consider whether it would be more logical to apply the rent-based approach as of 1 January 2017. I know that housing corporations have also asked for this in the interests of simplicity. Technically, you can. However, it does mean that the protection of tenants based on the rent-sum approach will only start six months later. If you would also like to fix that, you will have to take an additional measure by 1 July to allow that protection to enter into force at that time. Mr Ronnes has tabled an amendment together with Mr Van Vliet. I am in favour of this. However, it would be purely a combination of the rent price and the rent price, which will then be the target point, because it is already contained in the current law on 1 July, so limited as from 1 July, then you will come to 0.4% or 0.5%, which I have to calculate precisely.This year the tenants will see a rent increase that will have the same effect as in the case of the law already in force. On that condition, Mr Ronnes and Mr Van Vliet's amendment is possible. With this, I answered the questions about the rent. I'll turn to the questions about the income-dependent rent increase. In response to Mr Bashir, I have already said that the rates of transit at higher incomes should be read differently. I have already said to Mr Bashir why I am not in favour of a rent increase limited to inflation, which limits investment capacity very much. Mr Van der Linde asked, like many after him, whether it would not be desirable, instead of a three-year income test, to maintain the annual income test. I once took the income test at five years. After that, I have already taken it back to three years on a motion by Mr Van Vliet, I think with Mr Ronnes. I now have a clear signal from Aedes. It says: once a year is actually easier for us than once every three years, then we just set the system to that. Mr Van Vliet himself once again informed the Secretary of State for Finance. That's what I'd done by now. He gives the same signal, namely that it is actually easier for any large administration to have an annual routine than a three-yearly one. Mr Ronnes also pointed out that this made it easier for the tenant in the event of frequent income changes. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the amendment that has been tabled to that effect is quite feasible. Mr Van Vliet asked Mr Koolmees whether a 4% increase on inflation is sufficiently strong to really promote the flow of people on higher incomes. The first figures from the Tax Administration are encouraging. Again, we are going to evaluate this more comprehensively. I cannot rule out the fact that, on the basis of this evaluation, we say: we want to consider additional measures. I think it makes sense to do that at the time. It will be in the course of next year. The 4% we have now agreed on comes from the housing agreement. I have already said that I am very grateful to the parties who have concluded the settlement agreement. I also intended to abide by that. So I would say for the moment: let's just wait and see if there's any reason to change it. Mrs Schouten asked why the limit for the rent increase for higher incomes was set at a small €39,000, the limit currently applied to the allocation. They and others asked whether it is a logical limit for middle incomes. Mr De Vries and Mr Van Vliet also asked whether the middle incomes in terms of income are not a more vulnerable group than the elderly, which is excluded from the present proposal. The Council of State pointed that out, too. Following the advice of the Council of State, I honestly doubted whether I would follow him directly. On other points, I have followed the Council of State. It is possible, without major effects on the earning capacity of housing corporations, to relieve the burden on middle income by shifting the exemption from 65-plussers to middle incomes. I could do that by setting a limit for households with children. Mr De Vries asked about the figures of the Nibud. The Nibud indicates that you cannot generally say that people with an income of around €39,000 have a problem with housing costs, but that the problem arises specifically in families with children. No amendments have been tabled in this area. I wanted to come up with a letter of amendment, taking into account everything, in which I am carrying out that slide. He'll be coming your way tonight. The exemption for AOW beneficiaries will then lapse. This is replaced by an exemption from households of four or more members. In fact, it's about middle income with children. Mr De Vries asked how we would ensure that there were sufficient medium-term rentals available. In the debate on Mrs Schouten's law, I mentioned a package of measures that we are taking. Because we are short of time, I refer briefly to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u159	I just have to let it work out for myself that the 65-plussers are suddenly screwed tonight, as usual with this cabinet. That's for the benefit of families with two children, if I'm right. That's what surprises me. I find it very easy for these two income groups to be moved between them. It is about purchasing power and income that both groups need very much, whether they are 65+ or people with children. Does the Minister think it's normal to just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u160	I don't just do that. I indicated that the Council of State pointed this out, that I was at that moment in dubio whether I would follow that advice and that I had, I hope, heard the Chamber correctly. That's what the Chamber's gonna judge. In any case, it is possible to do that slide in this way without seriously affecting the earning capacity of landlords. So that's not random. That is on the basis of two clear signals: one from the Council of State and one from a number of colleagues who are asking if I can spare the middle income.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u161	I can't believe what I'm hearing here, because in recent years the 65-plussers have turned in so much under this cabinet, and now they're getting caught again! Of course, I am giving families more purchasing power, but not at the expense of the elderly. If the Minister wants to do something about the purchasing power of families, then he should do so, but he should not take it away from the elderly, because he really cannot do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u162	The calculations of the Nibud and the opinion of the Council of State indicate that the biggest bottlenecks are generally not among AOWs but among larger households with in fact a lower middle income. Once again, these are two strong signals, which give me reason to say now: I am sending you a letter of amendment in which that slide takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u163	I have a factual question for you to understand. This applies to older people over 65 years of age with an income above €39,000 and to families with at least two children between Mrs Schouten's border, €33,000, and €43,000? Or is it another income category?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u164	The exemption for the elderly will then expire. Mr. Barry will get the same rent increase as the two neighbors. He did not mention the number of neighbors' children, but if one of the neighbors has a household of four or more people, i.e. an average family or a somewhat larger family, the maximum will be 2.5% instead of 4%. I'd like to start with the questions about the temporary leases. I shall start with Mr Bashir again. He asked me if I wouldn't expect any effects on the quality of life through temporary contracts and whether I wouldn't have to set a maximum percentage per landlord. As far as I'm concerned, the lease for an indefinite period remains the norm. I shall also go into the Albert de Vries amendment on the position of housing corporations. I do not expect landlords to suddenly switch to a lot of temporary rental contracts, because for a landlord it is especially important that the property stays rented. The need to change tenants over and over generally means at least one month no rent. This is a moving period, in which often also the necessary painting and repair work takes place. So I don't expect mass use of that. That combination leads to me not expecting any effects on the viability either. Mr Bashir asked what guarantees a tenant has on another house when his temporary contract expires. Of course, it is not the case that every tenant who concludes a temporary contract wants that guarantee. This is also evident from the research we have done on this subject. There's a whole bunch of people out there looking for temporary living space. They are people who want to live somewhere temporarily because of work or training or want to move quickly after a divorce. For some of the people that need will not exist. For those who do need this opportunity, Mrs Schouten has tabled an amendment asking for the registration period to be extended during such a temporary lease. This is parallel to her own initiative law. I am sympathetic to that amendment. In this way, too, the remaining concerns in this area could be addressed. Mr Bashir and others asked how it could be avoided that a new rental price would be agreed immediately after a temporary lease. At first it was not in the law because it was my estimate that it is not very logical to ask as a landlord a relatively low rental price first and to increase it after a year. Normally, you'll want to ask for the right rent right away. Now that I have heard this concern, from Mr Bashir to Mrs Schouten, I have made it clear in a letter of amendment that the moment of transition from a temporary lease to an indefinite lease cannot be explicitly used to adjust the rent, other than with the legally permitted rental rate. If it's okay, this note's already in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u165	I really appreciate that the Minister is trying to accommodate us in notes of amendment, but it will be a hypothetical discussion if we do not yet have it here. I find it complicated, because I have also tabled amendments on that point. What solution is there, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u166	My suggestion is that I answer the questions first. I will also discuss the amendments one by one. The Chamber has begun an order debate. The Chamber itself is in charge of the order. I indicated that the time pressure lies in the fact that the lease must be in place on time. It is not contrary to this to plan the second term later this week. It would be a pity if the vote could not take place next Tuesday. Some experience with the First Chamber has shown that otherwise the First Chamber members will look angry, because they do not have enough time. By the way, the Chamber will receive both letters of amendment this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u167	What time will that be tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u168	I hear they're already here, and I was hoping they were. I understand Mrs Schouten says she still wants to be able to read them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u169	She wants time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u170	The week is still young and I would appreciate it if we could vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u171	How far along are you with the response?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u172	I think I should be able to finish that in half an hour. That is a little dependent on the questions that are going to be asked. Mr Bashir asked if I am prepared to shorten the notice period for the tenant. Mr De Vries has tabled an amendment on this subject which states that the tenant cannot be tied to the fixed term, whether it is a one-year contract or a five-year contract, and must be able to terminate in the interim. I do not wish to confuse Mrs Schouten with this, because I understand that the interest of the tenant is greater in this respect. I hope that I will meet Mr Bashir on that point. Mr Bashir asked, like everyone else after him, whether the fixed lease remains the norm. Yes, that remains the norm. The possibilities for temporary leases introduced are very strict. The only contract that is not aimed at a specific target group is the annual contract. This is explicitly stated: up to one year and only once. Mr Van Vliet asked me not only to monitor the effects of this law in the review after five years, but also in the State of the Housing Market, which is published annually. I am happy to go into the State of the Housing Market with the available data annually. During the evaluation of course you go deeper and try to understand all kinds of side effects and second-order effects, but the State of the Housing Market and the State of the Housing also appear to give an annual intermediate stand. Mr De Vries asked me whether I would like to keep a careful record of whether the temporary contracts are not being used in a timely manner. I've already indicated that indefinite time will remain the norm. I'll keep track of if there's no growth. Again, I do not expect that, but that is why I am all the more willing to open up about it. Mrs Schouten asked why people with a psychiatric background are mentioned as one of the target groups for temporary contracts. The reason for this is that this came out of the question following the 2011 motion asking the government to identify where the social need for temporary contracts exists. People from social care or with a ggz background often want to take the step towards independent living space. Society also believes that this is important. That's a step. This can mean, for example, that there is temporary extra guidance, but also that residents are worried. Housing nuisance is extremely profound for neighbors, upstairs neighbors, people from the neighborhood. It can help people over the threshold when you can say: we do a contract for a year and see if things are going well; if things really don't work out well, then we can break up again. That could give a neighborhood real peace of mind. With that, you can still offer people with a psychiatric background who wouldn't get a place like this now and then. Mrs Schouten asked whether a fixed-term contract would be contrary to international conventions, in particular Article 11 of the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. In our opinion, it is not contrary to that. We've made a judgment of our own. In general, the Council of State also looks very critically at possible conflict with international treaties, but I do not want to hide behind the council. My own judgment is that it does not conflict with that. Mr De Vries asked how we can ensure that the excessive use of 'urgent own use' is reduced by the possibilities offered by this law. By offering this possibility, there is of course already much less reason for landlords to make use of the very limited possibilities that the law offers to date. I have already indicated that I want to monitor the law and really want to see whether there is no growth. That is, of course, on top of the possibility that an individual tenant always has to obtain his right from a court, but that does not relieve me of the commitments I have just made. Mr De Vries asked how we would ensure that a tenant knows that he can also convert a temporary lease into an indefinite lease. Of course, we will provide the normal information about this change of law as we do differently, both through relevant organisations and through our own website. I do not think it would be wise to use a period of notice, which Mrs Schouten also asked for, in a fixed-term contract. Indeed, when you enter into a contract for a year or less, it is important for both parties to realize that we are now making this agreement. Of course, if he wants an extension, a tenant can ask very well three months before the end of the lease: can we agree on renewal? I have just promised that, by means of a letter of amendment, I will guarantee that there will be no rent cuts, but it would be confusing to introduce a period of notice into the law. Then it is no longer clear whether it really was for a certain period of time or not. Once again, I think this should be clear to both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u173	I didn't ask for a notice; I asked if the tenant could be informed in good time if the landlord agreed to an extension. That's something else, but that's important to the tenant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u174	Yeah, but then it makes sense for the tenant's question to come. This timeliness will therefore also have to be met by a timely request from the tenant, and that is, of course, quite possible. With this I hope to have answered the specific questions about the temporary lease. Now, before I get to the amendments, I come to the last chapter on a number of other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u175	My question was not about whether a notice of termination is being sent, but about how the automatic termination of the contract relates to the protection of the rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u176	If you would require an additional action to terminate a fixed-term contract, the bill assumes a maximum of one year; that can also be six months. As a legislator, you actually create doubts about the fixed-term contract. Once again, that contract should not be the standard as far as I am concerned. Both parties must also be aware that the contract is valid for a certain period of time. This means that the contract expires after those six months or up to 12 months if no action is taken. If you add another action to that, you can get surprises and angry faces. One of them says, "We agreed for a certain time," right? And the other one says, "Yes, but you didn't let me know anything." That's what's causing messiness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u177	I'd almost think the opposite is the case. We have a rather well thought-out system of rental protection in the Netherlands. In view of the comments made in this debate, all the parliamentary groups attach great importance to them. If you automatically cancel a contract, you can go to court as a tenant, but that will say that the complaint is inadmissible, because the contract has automatically expired. It is precisely that extra guarantee that we should want to build in if you want to build in some flexibility on the one hand and keep the rent protection on the other? Then it would not be a good solution if it were to lapse automatically, would it not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u178	In the example mentioned by Mrs Schouten, a course to justice will not make any difference. The course to the judge will then be made when the letter comes with the promise. Then the judge will still say: you had agreed a fixed-term lease with each other and the promise only confirms what you had already agreed. Mr Bashir asked me how I would prevent houses from remaining empty for too long, while there is still a demand for rentals in a number of places. For this, the Emptiness Act has already been amended once. This made it possible to rent out properties for sale temporarily, five years. In addition, I have already indicated that I also want to give a boost to individuals who still find it creepy to rent their house for homes that are not or no longer for sale, just by introducing the possibility of temporary contracts. Mr Bashir added, undoubtedly also in response to the question from Limburg, that this could be particularly interesting for status holders. He pointed out that there was therefore no need to pay a landlord's tax. We have a VAO debate on this later this week, but I have already mentioned in general consultation that there is no need to pay a landlord's tax at all if a private person is the landlord. After all, this tax does not apply until ten social housing units. So the problem for that private individual has already been solved. Mr Bashir asked if by introducing this law I would legally prohibit the possibility of anti-cracking agreements, the use agreements. I do expect that it will be less necessary to use it, but I do not think that banning it makes sense. Anti-cracking contracts are very often used in non-dwellings. I once went to work with the Bond Precaire Housing Forms at the request of the SP. I had asked the people of the SP to show me where the bottlenecks are for their taste. That was a good work visit. The first place I visited was an empty football canteen in Rotterdam, where an artist had his studio, but also regularly stayed overnight. That is an example I think: fortunately, such a building is not empty and fortunately, the artist has a studio where he can stay. I certainly wouldn't want to make that impossible, but I do expect less use to be made of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u179	Mr Bashir. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u180	Now that the Minister is introducing so many new temporary forms of leases, does it not make sense to convert these anti-cracking contracts into one of those new forms? I do not think we need these anti-cracking contracts at all anymore, because we can move on to temporary leases, for example, where a period of one year is agreed upon. The Minister can even introduce a new regime. In the new situation, the people concerned actually have no rights at all. I cannot imagine the Minister's view that this situation is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u181	The example I have just mentioned is a pity that Mr Bashir does not go into it, because I cannot solve it through this law. I think it is socially desirable that the football canteen, or a business building, should have a good destination in this way. I can reduce the need to choose the form of a contract of use, but I consider it socially harmful to ban contracts of use altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u182	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u183	The Minister is now using the word "forbidden," but I am talking about converting such contracts into contracts on the basis of which the tenant also has certain rights. We will soon have people using an anti-cracking contract in which they have no rights at all. They can be evicted at any time, and they barely have any rights. The Minister is now introducing many new forms. I find it strange that he doesn't immediately take this group with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u184	It is now possible to do such a conversion. The tenant who now has a usage agreement can go to the landlord and say: it is now possible to conclude a contract for six months or a year, can we do so? In the case of the aforementioned football canteen or a business building, this is not very obvious, because there will be an attempt to rent those buildings quickly again. I would be sorry if following Mr Bashir's proposal that rental is no longer possible and that football canteen or that business building remains completely empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u185	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u186	That is why I do not support Mr Bashir's proposal. Mr Bashir and also Mr De Vries asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u187	On the same subject, there is a brief interruption by Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u188	The debate is now a bit about the edges of 'by nature of short duration', but the essence of the problem is that people are now disloyal, which could be overcome by using temporary leases more often. I am thinking of people who have to live somewhere temporarily for work, or foreign students, or others; there are plenty of examples. Would it not be possible for the Court to state that the case law is going that way, that if it is logical to use a temporary lease, then there will be no use of the "by nature of short-term" contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u189	I think a judge will interpret it that way. However, that is not the case with the introduction of a ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u190	I'm not asking you to. It is wise, however, to state very clearly that, where appropriate, we consider it logical that there should be a little more legal protection for these categories of temporary use. Of course, there are edges to that. I understand that we cannot name them all and lay them down in the law, but I think that we must say that the aim is to strengthen legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u191	I follow Mr De Vries' reasoning. It is absolutely my ambition, in cases where we can use these contracts and therefore no longer need the old form, to do so. Otherwise, I wouldn't be standing here right now. But I also agree with Mr De Vries that you should not scorch it completely, whether it is the football canteen or the classic example of the holiday home, by its nature of short duration. Both Mr Bashir and Mr De Vries...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u192	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u193	I would also like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u194	I have a question about the lease for one year tops. I know a lot of cases where people would like to. You want to rent a house temporarily because you're building a house or because you're working somewhere temporary. Landlords are gonna want that, too. After all, they have an empty house that they can rent out temporarily. But a year is short, and if people want to extend by a year after a year, I don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u195	First of all, I am pleased that Mr Madlener is positive about this part of the law. Mr Van der Linde has tabled an amendment which is in line with Mr Madlener's comment. I should like to start by saying that I am in favour of this amendment. I still think it means that it can be extended once. That also fits in with the spirit of the law. So, in Mr Van der Linde's example, you cannot do four times six months. It's one time, only two years at most.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u196	Do you know what number that amendment has?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u197	I shall end all the amendments in a moment, but I will mention them because they respond to Mr Madlener's concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u198	Okay. It is, moreover, the amendment to item No. 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u199	I think it would be safer to extend one year by a maximum of one year. Then people will realize a little more: it's one more year and then it stops. Because it's a lot to be on the street after one period. Anyway, two years is better than one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u200	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u201	Both Mr Bashir and Mr De Vries asked why measures have been introduced in this flow-through law against cheaply skewed living and not against long-term living. This is because expensive skewed housing is already being addressed through appropriate allocation. Let me look at the balance between the criticism of the House Union on the one hand and Aedes on the other. Unfortunately, they did not agree on how to deal with skewed people. Aedes doesn't agree with my approach of overly expensive skewed housing, so the rent-based approach, while the Houses Association unfortunately disagrees with my approach of cheap skewed housing, the income-dependent rent increase. I believe, however, that, because this problem of both types of skewed living is so urgent, I should nevertheless refer this proposal to the Chamber as a minister. Mr Koolmees asked whether this bill, in particular due to the aspect of the rent, leaves enough room for investment. I shared with the Chamber the effect on investment capital. Of course, it leads to some limitation. That's also why I started to point out that I'm taking a package of measures besides that rent. In the last Sectoral picture, the rent was not calculated itself, but all previous legislation based on the housing agreement was also allocated appropriately. Furthermore, conservative, inflation-related calculations have been made. So with a Sectoral image that really shows that there is a good investment space left, I am not concerned that this would not be the case anymore. Let me now turn to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u202	Before you go into that, I would like to return to the point of order proposed by Mr Van Vliet at the beginning of the first term and to Mrs Schouten's comment on the letters of amendment. That's a piece or two. I would like to see whether it is possible for the amendments to be answered in writing and for us to have a second deadline later this week. Then Members of Parliament would have had time to read the responses and study the notes of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u203	I am in favour of this approach in itself, but I would like to have an oral response to the amendments now. That saves a lot of work because the minister's officials will no longer have to write it all down. That is also going a lot faster and we can take it into account in our group's deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u204	The CDA also prefers this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u205	As far as I am concerned, what is already on the table can be commented on orally. However, there are still a number of things to come, and they will still have to be commented on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u206	I think that the President's proposal to do it in writing is very good. Then we can keep the second term later this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u207	It also depends on whether the Minister's response to the amendments is long or short. I can't estimate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u208	The Minister can usually be quite brief, so I would appreciate it if we could get that response now. Then I can go along with your proposal, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u209	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u210	Then I suggest that the Minister responds briefly to the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u211	I will, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 9 by Mrs Schouten. That amendment proposes that the registration period be maintained, including for short-term leases. I think this is a nice amendment, so I would like to leave it to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. Mr Ronnes' 11 proposes that the part of the rent increase that goes beyond the liberalisation limit should not be included in the rent-based approach. I must advise against this amendment, because a correct interpretation of the agreement, which also includes liberalization in terms of the volume of rents, means that it covers the whole leap. As soon as a house is liberalised, it is no longer included; just for the record. It's a one-time thing in this case. Mr Ronnes asks in his amendment to item No. 12 to exclude house improvement from the rent at the time of change. It's already outside the rent when it takes place in the interim. It's not easy in the execution. It is not really possible to see very clearly at the time of a rent increase at the time of a change which part is the result of raising in relation to market conditions and which part is the result of a previous renovation, because that is what we are talking about. Mr De Vries rightly pointed out that this is not necessary for real zero-on-the-meter renovations, because it can be used as the First Chamber which also approves the law on energy performance compensation. I am prepared to leave this amendment to the Court's opinion. However, the Court must realise that the precise definition of which part of the rent increase is the result of house improvement and which part is the result of raising to market conformity is not very easy to cut. Mr Bashir asks in his amendment to item No. 13 increase the income limit for the income test to €65.000. I find that out of proportion. It is actually said that even if there was an income of almost twice a mode, there would be a right to a social housing with a limited rent increase. In this way we certainly keep huge deficits in social housing for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u212	This amendment proposes to exempt people who make €20,000 twice. In the Chamber it has also been proposed to shift the income line upwards, so that more people get less rent increase. Does the Minister entirely disagree with this appeal from the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u213	Mr Bashir talks about €20,000 twice. In the amendment I read about the increase in the income limit to €65.000. That's almost twice the rate and not twice the amount of $20,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u214	The Minister also wants to give people with two-time income of €20,000 huge rent increases. This amendment exempts those people from it. If the Minister says he is willing to move the border upwards, so to €50,000, he will at least meet us. The SP wants an income limit of €65,000; above that, according to the SP, you are someone who makes a lot of money and can also contribute, but underneath that there should be no rent increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u215	I'm not gonna let it get away with it. I fundamentally disagree with the argument that people with an income of almost two modes should live in a social housing unit at all and should also receive a moderate rent increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u216	That's a difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u217	I am very sorry that the Minister is not answering my question. I am not talking about my amendment, but about the question that has also been asked from the Chamber, namely to raise the income limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u218	Mr Bashir, we are talking about amendments and there is simply a difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u219	In his amendment to item No. 14 Mr Bashir said that the overall average rent increase should be based on inflation alone. I went into this in detail in the debate. I don't recommend the amendment. In his amendment to item No. 15 says Mr Bashir that there should be no exception for income-dependent rents, i.e. inflation plus 4% for higher incomes when calculating the rent. This means that the investment space created by this will no longer be available. So it simply leads to less housing again, and that is contrary to Mr Bashir's other wish. I therefore also advise against this amendment. In her amendment, Mrs Schouten asks for item No. 17 to completely delete the grounds for termination of the lease for large families. The desire to create a termination ground specifically for homes for large families comes from the social consultation. There is only a limited number of social rentals available for really large families. I share the analysis that, in the case of a limited offer, it is reasonable to ask the families to take the step towards a less spacious house, provided that there is another large family in need of that home. That is how the law is formulated on this point. I thought that Mr De Vries had tabled another amendment on the subject of accompaniment to other places of residence. I am in favour of this. As this is an explicit wish from the social consultation, I must advise against the amendment in which Mrs Schouten asks for the grounds for withdrawal to be removed altogether. In his amendment to item No. 18 Mr De Vries proposed that the possibility of annual contracts for corporations should not be left undetermined, but only for specific target groups. I understand Mr De Vries' concern. I have already indicated that I do not expect corporations to make extensive use of this, but I also see no objection in the explicit provision in the law that corporations, ultimately the social landlords par excellence, may use temporary contracts specifically for these target groups. I leave it to the House to decide on the amendment to item No. 18, please, to the Chamber. Mr De Vries, with his amendment to item No. 19 offer the tenant the opportunity to terminate a fixed-term contract. I indicated earlier that I understand that wish. I have heard it from several speakers. The opinion on the amendment to item No. So I'd like to leave 19 to the Chamber. The amendment I have just referred to was the amendment to item No. 20 by Mr De Vries. In that amendment, he goes into housing for larger families. As the law already states in the case of homes specifically for the disabled and the elderly, this amendment calls for an obligation on the landlord to make other suitable accommodation available. I understand. I hope that this will also satisfy Mrs Schouten's concerns. The opinion on the amendment to item No. So I'd like to leave 20 to the Chamber. In his amendment to item No. 21 calls on Mr Bashir to bring both private landlords and liberalised contracts under the rent-based approach. In any case, I would find this very illogical in the case of liberalised contracts, because at the moment there is no legal limit to this at all. As far as private landlords are concerned, I have already given a number of reasons. For me, it's very crucial that the average rental space stays the same in this way. Apart from the other practical objections I have raised, I believe that I am committed to my commitment that I will not unilaterally limit earning capacity. The amendment in part No. Twenty-one, I'm guessing. In the amendment to item No. 22 Mr Ronnes and Mr Van Vliet ask that the rent sum be calculated on 1 January instead of 1 July. I propose that I state in writing on what percentage I would then have to fix the rent on 1 July of this year. In conjunction with such a rent calculation for this year, I would like to leave the amendment to the Court's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u220	I would like to say to the Minister that I agree. At least he can read the amendment in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u221	I announced in my first term that I will prepare a motion that sees that 0.4%. Actually, I'd appreciate it if you could file it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u222	I will not deprive Mr De Vries of that right. There's even a chance I'll say I'm going to make the motion. Mr Ronnes has again tabled an amendment together with Mr Van Vliet asking for the income test to be carried out annually instead of three times a year. I've already indicated that I like that. The amendment in part No. 23 I would therefore like to leave it to the House to decide. The amendment in part No. 24 by Mr Van der Linde, in accordance with the original form of the law, and also in accordance with the wish originally expressed in the consultation, to set temporary rents to a maximum of two years instead of one year, but with all the restrictions we have agreed on. I would also like to leave that amendment to the House. The amendment in part No. In my view, 25 by Mrs Schouten overlaps strongly with Mr Bashir's amendment which brings private landlords under the rent-cost approach. Although Mr Bashir's amendment goes even further, I can see Mrs Schouten nodding, but I would advise against the amendment in part No. 25 for the same reason. In doing so, I hope to have given advice to all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u223	The amendment in part No. 26 has not yet been given an opinion, nor has the amendment on item No. No 7 by Mr Madlener and Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u224	The amendment in part No. Mrs Schouten's 26 requests that the rent for the second agreement be checked for reasonableness. In my view, the need for this has lapsed as a result of the letter of amendment which I have submitted, which states that the rent cannot be adjusted, other than with the legally permitted rent increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u225	There is another part of the amendment, namely that, in order to prevent short-term contracts from always being used as a kind of pilot contract, if there is an extension, a contract is immediately drawn up for an indefinite period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u226	Then I have to read the amendment a little more thoroughly. I shall return to that in writing. The amendment in part No. 7 by Mr Wilders and Mr Madlener, now in the Housing Act, request that priority be given to status holders. As Mr Madlener himself pointed out, I sent a similar proposal to the Council of State. I think this is a far-reaching proposal of the kind that should have normal legal treatment. For this reason, I am now dissuading the amendment and I would like to return to the Chamber with an opinion from the Council of State on the same subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u227	A brief question, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u228	This is a very important proposal, because there is a great deal of social commotion about the priority of asylum seekers and status holders. I think the Minister is stalling; it's all taking so long. I understand that the Minister has indicated that the opinion of the Council of State is awaited and that it will not come to the Chamber until the summer recess. Then the recess gets over it again. Before you know it, there'll be elections again. Is this just the Minister's dawdling action? After all, he can sort this out right now. Then we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u229	No, this isn't a dawdling operation. I have indicated why the law contains the measures it now contains. They all relate to the flow. The issue of housing status holders is important. That's why I sent a bill to the Council of State. Of course, it requires careful treatment. So it will also be possible to take place after it is back from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u230	Mr Van Vliet, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u231	Oh, yeah. That question is also addressed to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u232	Thank you. Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u233	We'll do the second term later this week, Thursday. Is it also a useful idea in your view to do this, directly in connection with the VAO Krimp with this minister? That's at 10:15. If we do that in conjunction with that VAO, then we'll be done with a short second term. That would be very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u234	I understand your proposal, but it's not gonna work. It probably takes place on Thursdays, and at least not late at night. A new schedule will be sent to you. Thank you for your thought, Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u235	We have received two letters of amendment. One of them says that the elderly are going to get a huge rent increase as well. There's an explanation for that. We have also received another letter of amendment, with little explanation. I would ask the Minister to take another look at that note and send us a full explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u236	I would be happy to look again at whether this clarification can gain in clarity. I mentioned an important point, namely the concern of Mrs Schouten and others about preventing rental jumps when converting a fixed-term contract into an indefinite contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u237	I have another question on the basis of those letters of amendment, so that the Minister who may be involved in a written supplement may be involved. He indicated that an amount had to be shifted from pensioners to families, around the €39.000 limit. What amount are we talking about? Can he say whether the total financial picture that is under the law does not exist with the Empire, but with the executive organisations it offers scope to find a solution for both groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u238	Does Mr Madlener also have a question that should be taken into account in that written reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u239	Indeed, on this same point. The pensioners were initially excluded, for a very good reason, but that seems to be suddenly off the table. I would also like a detailed explanation of this. What does this mean in the years to come for the purchasing power of the elderly who have already been so badly caught by this cabinet? Does the Minister think this is appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u240	I will be happy to forward the calculations requested to the Chamber by Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-27.u241	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. The debate will continue on Thursday. I would like to thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament and the people who are following this debate in one way or another.
