ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber and give the floor first to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has tabled a rather controversial budget. The most controversial issue so far has been the deductibility of maintenance costs of state monuments. That says something about the situation we are in. In other words, no controversy, but no vigorous action in the future. No directional policies in the areas of the labour market, pensions or taxes. The cabinet, to speak with the writer Gerard Reve, is on its way to the end. A natural end, probably, though. In the opinion of the CDA Group, the cabinet has not yet drawn sufficient conclusions from changing international developments. The purchasing power figures have been a guiding factor in the preparation of the budget. That is understandable in itself, but priorities change. Expenditure on Defense will be increased, but only modestly. And then: Purchasing power cards are always a horror movie for Cabinets, because in the end they never add up. Now more than 1 billion has been spent on making everything look beautiful, and then the rising care premiums throw back in the food. The budget is risky in terms of sustainability, should interest continue to rise, and also because of the optimistic return on the buy-back of own-account pensions. How's the cabinet looking at this? The economy is in good shape. The same applies to public finances, although it is true that citizens and businesses have paid a heavy price to get out of the crisis. Moreover, there is something to say for the argument that we could have been out of trouble sooner, if the cabinet had not raised the belt extra firmly in the form of too many burdens and cuts. But that's also a bit of talking afterwards. The Netherlands is doing an excellent job economically, and the cabinet deserves credit for that. Never before have there been so many people at work. You would therefore think that the cabinet could bathe in a sea of satisfaction among the population. That is not the case. There is a great deal of discontent in our country. We are not unique in this. It is uneasy in many countries, but why also in a country like ours, that there seems to be such a good situation at least on the basis of the figures? Apparently, it is no longer the case that the economy is decisive for the well-being of the population. Long was the adage "it's the economy, stupid!" Clinton once capitalized on Bush senior, when he thought he could win the election on the basis of won wars, at a time when the economy was going badly. The current situation is strongly reminiscent of that at the end of the Purple Cabinet. Even then there was a thriving economy, albeit for a longer period than now, followed by a burst of dissatisfaction. We are still experiencing the consequences of this. There is a severe short-circuit between what many citizens experience and what is happening in The Hague. Once Bas de Gaay Fortman wrote a book about politics as the art of ivory-making: politics as a craft, in which a product is worked with endless patience, with barely visible results. That is also the essence of the matter: bridging contradictions, compromise, making the impossible possible. This requires understanding and patience among the citizens, not directly characteristics that you would call characteristic for this time. This puts a heavier mortgage on the work of the directors. They must turn ivory in a world that no longer has the patience to do so. We mix the reality of the football canteen with that of the board. It is a clash between what the political craft requires of half-heartedness and the iron logic of the football canteen. On the one hand inevitable complexity with long roots embedded in legal systems. On the other hand, the uncomplicated and daily changing sound of what used to be the voice of the people. This mixture makes the country more difficult to control. It is also difficult to explain that we support Greece financially and at the same time cut back on home care. It is difficult to explain that people are on a waiting list for a rental house, while refugees get a home soon. It is difficult to explain that you are making yourself dependent on Turkey in the refugee situation, when that country is leaving a side that is far from what we think is right from a legal point of view. There are more examples, but the fact that it is difficult to explain does not mean that it should not happen. A lot of my life I'm already in football canteens. They're part of my world. I know the sentiment and the instinct of it from oats to grits. The instinct of a football canteen is sharp with regard to spinning and hypocrisy, but it rarely or never offers solutions. That remains the job of politicians. Politics continues to play the art of ivory. In order to improve the relationship between citizens and governance, it is essential that politicians be cautious in what they promise. The art of ivory-turning doesn't relate to big words. It is also essential that the implementation of the policy is in order. Here we face a major problem in our country. Not so long ago, we had a discussion in this house with the General Court of Auditors, following the 2015 audit. In that investigation, it was found that there are serious deficiencies in classical public service obligations. One of them concerned the Tax Administration. The General Court found persistent uncertainty about how to tackle ICT problems and noted staggeringly that major policy changes are not possible or risky in the coming years. A sign on the wall in this respect is the change in the capital efficiency levy. Because it is not possible for the Tax Administration to tax the real return, we must continue with a fictional return that is much higher than what people get in their savings account. That is not fair, and it does not make it more equitable for people with greater wealth, who also have their money in a savings account, to be subject to higher taxes. When you talk about raising citizens' incomprehension for what is happening in The Hague, this is a tough example, all the more so since last year the proposal only came through Parliament, because it was linked to the known 5 billion reduction in income tax. The Secretary of State did write a letter to the Chamber on the capital efficiency levy with some options for a solution, but no choices were made. On this point, too, the cabinet shows that it is only on its way to the end. I do not want to rub salt in the wounds following the recent fuss about the reorganisation of the Tax Administration. I think the Secretary of State is too high for that. However, I would like to hear a reaction from the cabinet on the findings of the General Court. Can the Tax Administration handle any changes to the tax system or not? The feasibility of policies must be given much more attention. It is a somewhat boring subject, but it is essential for the credibility of the government and therefore directly related to the problems that we have in democratic terms. Another example of failing execution is the UWV. Here, too, there are major problems. ICTs have fundamental flaws. Minister Asscher recently informed the Chamber that it will be until 2020 before the problems are resolved. The Minister warns that the effort needed to achieve this could lead to delays in the introduction of politically desirable policy changes. The living evidence that a poor implementation policy is going through has recently been provided in a report by the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate. This showed that the UWV and municipalities are unable to provide sufficient job seekers for the so-called 100,000 jobs project. This is one of the cabinet's flagship issues: giving a job to people with disabilities; an extremely important and socially responsible measure that deserves our support. It seems that there are enough vacancies available at the companies, but the candidates cannot be delivered. That's sad and more than that. It is a disgrace, in fact, because, as this report shows, this system of employment has not worked for years. Here again from the same sheet a suit. New policies cannot be implemented. From this point of view, it is perhaps a good thing that the cabinet has not managed to come up with a new tax system, nor has it found solutions to the problems of thezzp'ers. As far as the latter is concerned, I would like to focus on the feasibility of possible solutions. We are faced with a great choice that can have a great impact on collective spending. If we were to undertake to ensure the risk of sickness and disability collectively, we would be taking a major step. Of course, it is important to provide social protection against the risks of illness and disability, but let us first consider how we do that and how manyzzp'ers really need such protection. What strikes me is that there is often a negative opinion about thezzp'er, but that's not how he or she thinks about it. Research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows thatzzp'ers are satisfied with their situation, have low absenteeism and perform better. Caution is needed to change this situation, all the more so as a lot of people talk aboutzzp's and little with them. In any case, the practical feasibility and feasibility must be paramount. Let us not forget where we come from with collective regulations on sickness and disability. The Disease Act and WAO were notorious for their high levels of abuse and at the time led to numbers of participants who suspected the existence of a civil war. We have a bad reputation for implementing social security and now we are considering putting 1 million people in a system. Think about it well, I guess. The unhoping implementation of the DBA Act underlines once again the legitimate doubt. Please give the Cabinet's opinion on the risks outlined. The risks to our economy and thus to our country's financial system come mainly from outside. The euro remains a worry child because the political means to protect the currency are still not complete. The differences between northern and southern Europe are large. Devaluating the currency, in the past a means of improving competitiveness, is no longer possible. The opportunities for improving competitiveness are shrinking. The opportunities to become more competitive through adjustments to the economy run counter to the unwillingness and incomprehension of the electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u3	I needed a moment to process Mr Van Kesteren's comments onzzp'ers. I had to look up something. I was struck by the tone of his story. I understand from the newspaper the following about the CDA's election programme. The message gives the impression that it would be the intention of the CDA to discourage the zzp-schap fiscally. That seems to contradict the tone of Mr Van Kesteren's story. Mr Van Kesteren, would you like to clarify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u4	I know my party's program.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u5	That's what I assumed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u6	I am also an enthusiastic supporter of this. This does not alter the fact that it is always good to continue to think about the developments outlined and to comment on them. I know that the aim of collective regulation is suggested in my party's programme. The port of my contribution is that we must be extremely careful when designing it. I've learned a lot from the past. We have seen part of the past together. I'm referring to the Illness Act and the WAO. At the time, they put the Netherlands in incredibly big trouble. Potentially, this can happen again here if we don't do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u7	I say to Mr Rinnooy Kan and also to Mr Van Kesteren that we are speaking through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u8	I'm listening with interest. I note for the time being that Mr Van Kesteren's insights are still developing rapidly. I'm glad to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u9	The gap between north and south remains when it comes to the euro. Professor Stiglitz recently gave an interesting analyst. He says, "Whether you integrate or split." This is, of course, difficult to translate into practical politics. In response to Stiglitz's analysis, the Minister of Finance also pointed this out. In his article, the Minister was cautiously optimistic about developments in the euro area. In the meantime, further proposals in the financial and economic field are being developed by the European Commission. Proposals for a single European profit tax and a single European deposit guarantee scheme are circulating. The CDA Group is wondering whether this is currently too much for a Europe that has other things to do to support its citizens. Please judge the cabinet on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u10	This is an interesting comment from Mr Van Kesteren. He says that Mr Stiglitz's analysis cannot be translated directly into practical politics. As you know, we have a different opinion on this. You can just say that we are abolishing the euro. I know there are a lot of comments to make, but it is possible. Mr Van Kesteren says on the one hand that abolishing is clearly not an option and on the other hand that more Europe is not an option at the moment either. Does he actually agree with Mr Stiglitz's analysis? If so, what should we do with this in the CDA's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u11	To some extent, I agree with Stiglitz's analysis. However, you can hardly make radical choices in a very complicated world. That is the essence of my speech this morning. I think the Finance Minister in his reply to Sigitz has indicated where the shoe is wringing. I also had discussions earlier, in 2011 and 2012, when the euro went through a deep depression, about the possibilities of replacing the euro. I was talking about a horror movie in the context of purchasing power pictures, but that's just... it's not imaginable how you should organize something like that. And, and here I come to the direct answer, the CDA Group, the CDA stands for a strong Europe. A strong Europe cannot end up without a single currency. Much more is needed to make Europe strong, but the commitment we have is to ensure that the euro remains intact and can also function as one of the essential parts of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u12	I note that Mr Van Kesteren says: well, it is such a difficult problem that we do not want to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u13	I deny that. I choose Europe and I choose a strong euro. But I am not blind to the problems that exist. That is where we, as CDA, are in this debate. The art of ivorymaking applies in particular to the European project. It goes from crisis to crisis and from solution to solution. Nice political handiwork, but poorly resistant to the logic of the football canteen. In the meantime, the ECB fills the gap that arises because rigorous political steps cannot be taken. The amount of money pumped into the economy is huge. Is there an approximate knowledge, I ask the Cabinet, of the financial implications for our pension system in the short and long term? It is not in line with the ivory doctrine of criticising the ECB, because the independence of the ECB is fundamental. But gradually, in the field of money creation, you still come near the next anecdote. An English lady is on board the Titanic at the time of the demise and, in accordance with the stoic British tradition, orders a whiskey with ice cream. As the ice floes grow and become more threatening for the ship and the band plays, the lady says to the waiter "Waiter, I asked for ice, but this is ridiculous." That is what the situation with the ECB is reminiscent of. In the House of Representatives, the CDA Group has put on the table a detailed note on this issue. The cabinet has agreed to come forward with a response. That's why I'm leaving it here. I would like to address the issue of pensions, and the issue of non-indexation. I am doing this because it is a subject that contributes greatly to the gap between The Hague and the rest of the Netherlands. After all, pension funds make enough returns or can make enough returns to index, but they cannot do so because of the regulations. We measure ourselves to a much too tight straitjacket. We are doing this to keep money in the pots for the future, so that the younger generations too will have a pension. This is, of course, undisputed, but it is being implemented far too strictly. This leads to discontent among the citizens; among the elderly, of course, but also among the young people who work and whose retirement is at stake. We're talking about a situation that's decades ahead of us: 2050, 2060. Who dares to say with any certainty what the world looks like, let alone offer some certainty? Yet we give the impression that we can do that with our Ultimate Forward Rate and our coverage philosophy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u14	I still listen with admiration to Mr Van Kesteren, but I think I hear a little too much of the football canteen, where he spends so much time with so much pleasure. Well, that's the way it is. If Mr Van Kesteren does not agree with the current methodology for quantifying future liabilities of pension funds, what methodology would he replace?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u15	I would be more confident that this will also be the subject of further discussion in my text on the assets and capacity of pension funds and their investors in order to bring together sufficient resources to index. Why would that have been possible in 1975, 1985, 1995 and even in the time of crisis that is behind us, and why would that not be possible in 2040 or 2050? That is the starting question of the discussion. We accepted at some point, when it was very difficult with pensions in the early 2000s, that we can no longer trust that this capacity will exist in the future, so we have begun to restrict pension funds. Again, I understand the motive, but I think we've put ourselves in too tight a suit. That's gonna lead to big problems anyway. That leads to discontent. My argument is aimed at combating this discontent through reasonable measures and proper implementation. I think that the systematic failure to index is on the wrong track. That lives in the soccer canteen, but I find it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u16	That's consistent with your repeated presence there. I still find it difficult to reconcile your view with your previously expressed concern about the retirement of the new generations to come, but I am waiting for the follow-up to the football game.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u17	I would like to make a few comments on the desired macroeconomic policy. In the opinion of the CDA Group, it is wise to put two things at the heart of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u18	I would like to come back to what is going on in the football canteen but also to Mr Van Kesteren himself with regard to the indexation of pensions. Is that a suggestion that Mr Van Kesteren has made there, a thought that lives with the CDA, or is it also a hard point as far as the CDA is concerned in the run-up to, for example, the next cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u19	Of course, I take a modest position in my party. So I find it difficult to anticipate how that would play a role in a cabinet formation. But my commitment would be to examine the existing system of indexations and the legislation that determines them, to see whether we are on the right track and whether there are no alternatives. That would be my commitment, because I think that the pension system doesn't bring many people what it should bring. Because it seems that only elderly people are affected by not indexing, but remember that a lot of people at work do not see their pensions growing either. That's a little hidden suffering, but it does play out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u20	In that case, I would just like to say that we are curious whether the CDA will come up with alternatives at some point and how modest Mr Van Kesteren's role will ultimately be. We look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u21	I shall resume with what we would like to see from the macroeconomic point of view in the coming period. There are two issues in particular: investing in sustainability and making additional resources available to defence. In view of the international situation, the latter needs little argument. The first, investing, is essential for the future. There is a major sustainability challenge and much remains to be done in the field of road and public transport. So there is every reason to focus the financial resources on this. This means making use of the space provided by the Brussels standards, and that is probably also less priority for tax cuts. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the recent opinion of the WRR on the partnership and financial sector in balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u22	I shall go back to the point that Mr Van Kesteren left a little behind, namely defence. He did say, in my words, that things should be put right here. On sustainability, he said that we should pay attention to what Brussels says. In defence, we should look at what NATO sets standards for. Does that indicate what Mr Van Kesteren/CDA believes is necessary for defence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u23	I do not know exactly what is in the CDA programme at this point, I add. But it seems to me that the situation as it develops internationally makes it inevitable that the Netherlands will devote a greater share to defence and will also cooperate more closely with other European armed forces. That seems inevitable to me, unless another tent enters, but I am not assuming that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u24	I found Mr Van Kesteren's comment on investing in sustainable development extremely interesting. Can I understand that he is talking in particular about green sustainable development? Maybe he can explain that. What investments does the CDA intend to make? For example, is investing in making the huge housing stock in the Netherlands more energy efficient an idea that Mr Van Kesteren supports? I find it interesting that he says that there is therefore no room for burden relief. He says: let's primarily invest and not put the money into reducing the burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u25	I assume that we must conduct a prudent financial policy, so public debt and deficit must be contained. This means that we have to make choices with regard to the revenues of economic growth. You can roughly say that you can apply burden relief or bring more money to defense or the police. The latter will be necessary. As far as investment is concerned, we will have to take the path that the cabinet has taken in part, namely to get pension funds and other investors on your side and to make money available to invest in what our country and the world need, namely investing in sustainability. Then you're talking about doing what you have to do in the context of a climate agreement to make sure you can achieve your goals. There's a wide spectrum of possibilities. Then it's about energy and making the housing stock energy efficient. There are many examples of this. That money shouldn't just come from the state treasury, because then it's priceless. We will have to find a method to finance this development with a part of public money and a part of investor money. Otherwise, we'll never be able to finance it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u26	Can I conclude from what Mr Van Kesteren said that he says that the cabinet should be much more ambitious in this? Shouldn't a next cabinet be much more ambitious and develop a larger sustainability investment programme? Do I understand Mr Van Kesteren correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u27	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u28	It is very nice that the CDA is expressing its views on this. I'd like to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u29	I have heard Mr Van Kesteren reply to two different interruptions: I know exactly what is in the CDA programme. A few moments later I heard him say: I do not know exactly what is in the CDA programme. Perhaps it is a suggestion for Mr Van Kesteren and the CDA to compress the election programme into an A4's?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u30	That would have its advantages, Mr Van Strien, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u31	I listened with interest to Mr Van Kesteren's plea for more investment. I would also like to endorse what Mr van GroenLinks said, but I do have a question on this. Mr Van Kesteren said that the increase in investment must be in line with Brussels standards and European budgetary rules. I was wondering how he looks at these standards. What does he think are these standards at the moment? A note entitled Towards a Positive Fiscal Stance for the Euro Area has recently been published by the European Commission. I do not know whether Mr Van Kesteren is familiar with this, but it says that Germany and the Netherlands in particular would have more room for public investment than perhaps has been thought. The note recommends, among other things, that the Netherlands increase public investment by 1% of GDP. I wondered what the CDA Group's thoughts on this recommendation or suggestion by the European Commission were.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u32	I trust that we will conduct our financial policy prudently. That is to say, we are moving and moving within the limits set for this purpose. This restricts the possibility of funding from public funds projects. That's my answer. If you can make the standards wider and plan according to plans as launched by Juncker which can move elastic around the standards, that would fit in with my philosophy of ivory rotation. That's what I'd be there for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u33	My question was, in fact, whether Mr Van Kesteren agrees that, according to recent reports from Brussels, the European Commission itself states that the standards are actually wider than hitherto thought, including by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u34	I do not have the knowledge to answer this question properly. I do not know the report from which it is quoted. Finally, I would like to say something about a recent advice from the WRR, Society and financial sector in balance. That is a much discussed report that expresses concern that there are still too few securities in the banking system. The report touches on the core of an important issue. The financial sector operates in a free market and is a driving force for economic growth. At the same time, this results in the risks associated with entrepreneurship. That's what we've been experiencing in recent years. More stringent supervision has now been introduced and financial institutions need to have more buffers. In the view of the WRR, this is not enough and more restrictions should be imposed on the financial sector. In other words, because of the uncertainty for citizens, there is a need to keep banks more in state hands to provide a safe home for citizens who want to avoid risks. In addition, there is a call to lure financial institutions from London to Amsterdam. This calls for more freedom, entrepreneurship and risks. May I ask the Cabinet to deal with these various aspects? On behalf of the CDA Group, I would like to thank the cabinet for the current budget. We await the answers to our questions and comments with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u35	I experience it as a serious flaw in my personal biography that I rarely enter football canteens, but it does give rise to the following question. I have listened with interest to your story and to what you have said about pension funds and investment. I was gonna hook those two up. If you look at the way pension funds invest their money in the Netherlands, you can see that this goes abroad in a vast majority. Would the CDA be in favour of moving pension funds in one way or another to invest more of their money in the Netherlands, in investments in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u36	I can answer that question with a full yes. I would be happy if pension funds could be placed in such a way that they could contribute with modest returns in the Netherlands to investments that are needed and which cannot be raised by the public authorities alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u37	I am even more confused by this last reaction by Mr Van Kesteren. Previously, he advocated limited interference with what pension funds should do, namely making a high return on their pensioners. He even seemed to think that the UFR is a very conservative assessment of what those released pension funds could achieve. Now he wants to curb them again and force them to invest in the Netherlands. I think there is at least a tension between these perspectives. Perhaps Mr Van Kesteren can explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr Rinnooy Kan, whom I know as an extremely sharp man, has a point here. Of course there is a tension between these two views, but that does not mean that they cannot be united. If you leave pension funds more room to invest, you can also ask them to invest part of their investments in the Netherlands at the same time. I don't see this as an unbridgeable problem. I think you can make good agreements about this, because pension funds benefit from more space and Dutch society benefits from more investment through pension funds in what is needed in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr Van Kesteren's tone makes it impossible for me to be even more critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u40	I do not think Mr Rinnooy could quote Mr Van Kesteren very well. He did not talk about compulsory investments in the Netherlands but about more investments in the Netherlands. That is a fundamental difference. Does Mr Van Kesteren think that if regulation would give pension funds more room to invest in risk capital, this could be done in the Netherlands and beyond? In fact, under the current rules, the funds, in particular those below cover, are actually obliged to invest only in bonds. They can't even take more risks because they're underwater. If we changed those rules, would Mr Van Kesteren agree that this would be a good mix, i.e. better rules to take more risk and invest in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr Van Rooijen, as usual, is filling in the matter now, but in general he shows me how I look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u42	Madam President. May I begin by complimenting Mr Van Kesteren on the way in which he sees the spokesmanship in these financial considerations? I hope, moreover, that he will not blame me for saying that I hope that Mr Hoekstra will soon be able to take on this task and responsibility again. Again, that has nothing to do with the quality of the way you have been observed, Mr Hoekstra. While an electoral shock has occurred in the United States with unforeseen consequences for the world economy and therefore for the Netherlands, while the Brexit negotiations have yet to begin with unforeseen consequences, today we are discussing the proposed financial policy for the Netherlands for 2017 on the basis of the 2017 Millions Note. Of course, that has something unsatisfactory, but speculating about the consequences does not make much sense. We know more about the Central Economic Plan in the spring and in the meantime there is plenty to say about what we do know. Besides, sometimes it's good to have a look back. Then you can check expectations and images from the past against what really happened. For example, the financial considerations of four years ago are fascinating readings. In starkness, on the other side, and in a milder form, in this house, the calamity that would pour out the planned economic policy across the country was measured. Economists gave the cabinet in the trade magazine ESB a 3.5 for the planned policy; the minister will no doubt remember it. If we look soberly at the state of the Dutch economy, we can only conclude that little of this proposed disaster has come about. This point is now marked, but at the same time it is interesting to see if and if so what lessons for the policy to be pursued can be taken to the next government period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u43	I come back to the comments that the disaster did not come over our country and that all economists were wrong at the time. The economists who were critical at the time, including Professor Bas Jacobs, are still very critical of the policy pursued. They have calculated that the savings and burden increases have cost a total of around 5% of GDP growth and that this may have led to a loss of 365 000 jobs. By the way, these calculations are reflected in the investigations carried out by other independent institutes such as ING's research office. I do not know whether Mr De Grave would like to give the qualification disaster, apparently not. However, these do not seem to me to be positive developments. Perhaps Mr De Grave can respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u44	I have already said that I will return to this in the rest of my speech. I said that sentence to go into this nuance. However, I would advise Mr Van Apeldoorn to re-examine what was said four years ago. That's really interesting. If he compares this with this interruption, then in the rest of my speech I will return to the nuances and the questions I have with them. Certainly, there are lessons to be learned from the debate, but I would nevertheless like to highlight the point between the image and the texts then and the actual situation now. As I said, I will come back to the question of whether lessons can be learned from the debate; I will involve the interruption in this. First of all, I would like to refer to the figures in the 2017 budget. Those numbers look good. There is a fairly strong growth and a nice deficit of 0.5% despite 7.5 billion lower gas benefits than was estimated at the start of the coalition agreement. In addition, there is a negative sustainability deficit, i.e. in the medium term, collective expenditure is more than covered by collective income. That gives stability and confidence. That is all the better because this figure already takes account of the growth in healthcare expenditure of structural 3.4%. Partly due to accompanying burden policy, no groups in purchasing power are declining and many are improving on it, by the way, with an asterisk for the amount of the care premium for 2017. I'll get back to you on that. Although the CPB estimates that the number of jobs is increasing, partly thanks to a reduction in labour costs of 5 billion, the decline in unemployment is stagnating, mainly due to an increase in labour supply due to improved economic development. That in itself is a disadvantage as the cabinet also points out. The statistics of the Central Statistical Office on the development of unemployment in recent months have been remarkably much more favourable than forecasts. On this basis, I would ask the Minister whether there is any hope of developing unemployment. May it be concluded that it is likely to decrease further in 2017? That is important, because for the VVD, as we know, work is still the best cure for poverty and social exclusion. According to the latest figures, the Dutch economy is far better overall than the estimates in the Millions Note. That's good news. This may provide a buffer against negative risks such as the Brexit and the grim anti-free trade wind that is currently blowing in the world. For a country with an open economy like the Netherlands, which is heavily dependent on exports, this is a poor development. Does the government have a strategy in the event that unexpected protectionism instead of free trade becomes the international standard? How does the Netherlands deal with this? The VVD Group strongly supports the additional 400 million for Security and Justice. It is a good thing that the cabinet responds to the wide-ranging concerns, including those of my group, about the spending space for this department. The additional money for Defence, including peacekeeping operations, is gradually increasing to 400 million structurally desirable, given the challenges that Defence faces in an increasingly complex international environment. However, I would also like to say quite frankly that this is structuralally inadequate. We believe that the outcome of the American elections will have an effect here. NATO, crucial for our security, requires that the European partners also bear a greater share of the burden. How does the government view this? It is good to note that more parties see this in the light of the election programmes that have been published, and that, thanks to the government's policy, there will be budgetary scope to invest in national and international security in the coming period. Is it true, I ask the Minister, that out of the 400 million for Defence in 2017, only 80 million will remain after deduction of 100 million State-wide discounts and other measures such as price compensation? If that is the case, in the opinion of the VVD Group, extra money for Defence is absolutely on the table in 2017 and will have to be involved in the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u45	It is nice that the VVD group also wants to make a strong extra effort for the Defense Department. Can Mr De Grave give an indication of the amount envisaged by the VVD Group? I asked Mr Van Kesteren a moment ago. Can Mr De Grave tell us where to go? Should we, for example, apply the NATO standard? Or does the VVD Group have any other ideas about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr Van Kesteren has already said how important it is, when it comes to confidence-building images, to be careful when looking too far forward. I was present at the VVD Congress. The Congress has made a fairly clear statement, namely that in the coming years we need to work structuralally towards the NATO standard. However, the first step that will have to be taken is the average European amount for defence. Here too, we have a little left to go. At the same time, I am very specific about 2017, as we have just heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u47	Indeed, Mr De Grave has been clear about 2017. However, the NATO standard is 2% of gross domestic product, while in the Netherlands we only reach 1.17%. There's a huge hole in that. What, according to Mr De Grave, is the European standard that we should first grow to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u48	I said that the VVD Congress stated that the first step is to achieve the European average. In my mind, that's 1.43%. There is therefore still a strong step to be taken in this respect too. In the end, Congress has said, the objective must be to reach the standard that has been agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u49	That's a good signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u50	I think we have little political-content disagreement on this point. The difference will be at the pace and balance with other important issues. However, the signal is clear. I think we're pulling the rope on the same side of the line. It will be clear that the VVD supports the 2017 budget. That won't be a big surprise for the rulers. We even support the budget with appreciation for the cabinet. I would like to express my appreciation to the two leaders present here. Having said that, I note that there is concern about one aspect of the proposed financial policy. In fact, there is a deviation from the framework of the trend in budgetary policy, as the Advisory Section of the Council of State determines in its role as budgetary authority. In his response, the cabinet does not deny this. However, the cabinet points out that special circumstances, such as a severe setback due to the loss of exchange rates, have forced the cabinet to do so in order to achieve important social objectives. In itself, the VVD can understand this reasoning. We even support measures such as the reduction of labour costs, investment in national and international security and the package aimed at maintaining purchasing power. However, in itself these expenditures could also have been financed within the trendary fiscal policy by adjusting the expenditure framework. We invite the Minister to clarify why this was not chosen and that this exception remains a one-off exception to the trendary fiscal policy rule. So, in a sense, we are looking for something to hold on to. As far as we are concerned, the rule remains the rule and the policy remains the policy. I shall come back to the expected purchasing power development. The cabinet has made a considerable effort to prevent groups of people from getting in the way. According to the CPB figures, the cabinet has also succeeded in doing so. However, an increase of €40 per year on average is foreseen. More is now known about the care premium and the increase is clearly more than that €40. If I am not mistaken, according to the latest figures, there is an average increase in the premium of 7.5% instead of the estimated 3.5%. For the sake of nuance, however, I would like to point out that during the same financial considerations in 2013 it is always good to look at the reverse effect. At that time, the care premium was no less than €100 net than estimated. The cabinet cannot therefore be blamed for the fact that each time it estimates the premium too low as it pleases. That was absolutely not the case at the time. At present, higher contributions are compensated for lower incomes through the care allowance. There is therefore no purchasing power effect for this group. This does not, however, apply to middle incomes and higher incomes. Moreover, there are budgetary consequences if the premium deviates from the estimate, due to the compensation in the care premium. How big is the budgetary downturn for 2017, I ask the Minister, now that the level of the care premium is known and therefore the consequences of the increase in the care allowance? As far as we are concerned, the continuing substantial deviations from the actual care premium compared to the estimated premium is annoying. It leads to uncertainty about the purchasing power picture and also leads to budgetary instability. Our question is whether this is possible. Of course, these are private health insurers, who set their own premiums, but unlike other insurances, health insurance is part of a compulsory collective scheme and the premium level has a direct impact on the budget, as I have made clear. Are the members of the Board, also in their own best interests, prepared to consult with the VWS colleague in order to determine whether a premium can be fixed at such a time as to be taken into account in the preparation of the budget in conjunction with the health insurance companies? If that is not possible, can we then discuss the use of their reserves by the health insurance companies so that the amount of premiums is significantly reduced and then replaced, depending on the reserves and estimates, for a more stable premium development, in line with the growth of the cost of care? That seems to be the VVD in the interest of all concerned. Speaking of the care premium, the non-payment of this premium remains a persistent problem. They are hundreds of thousands of Dutch people. This has negative social consequences for those involved, but it also means a lot of extra work for the health insurance companies to be able to collect the premium, and an additional premium burden for those who do pay their premium. At the same time, as a society, we spend EUR 4.4 billion on healthcare payments. It is somewhat strange to the VVD group that hundreds of thousands of people cannot pay their health care contributions, while EUR 4.4 billion is paid in healthcare contributions, precisely in order to make it possible for people to pay their contributions. Can this not be seen in conjunction? Is it not much more effective to transfer the health care allowance directly to the health insurance provider of your choice to cover the premium to be paid? Could this not greatly reduce the current problem? I realize immediately that the last extra work will be for the Tax Administration, and I still have Mr Van Kesteren's warning in my head, but now there is a lot of extra work for health insurers and agencies such as debt relief. I would like to draw your inspiration from the letter from the government of 17 November 2014. It is seen that I have really been dived into the archives to the States-General on the main lines of a new childcare funding system. In this report, the government says it wants to move from the reimbursement of childcare costs to 400.00 parents to direct payments to 4,000 childcare institutions. In other words, that is where the money already goes to the institutions themselves and not to the rightful parents. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of this plan? Is direct payment to health insurers, given the far-reaching responsibilities of the government for health care, not even more logical than the application of this system to childcare? We look forward to the reaction of the rulers. Are they prepared to move on to the care allowance or at least to undertake to inform Parliament about the possibilities and consequences of this idea? I come as promised on the theme lessons learned. The constant criticism of many economists and economic offices.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If you read through all the reports and reflections, including the nuances, it turns out that it is not so much about the direction of the policy pursued, but about its size and timing. That is also the essence of my answer to Mr Van Apeldoorn: the debate four years ago was much more about the direction of the policy pursued than about size and timing. This was certainly true of the proposed cuts. In particular, the burden increases in a declining economic situation, as the Central Planning Bureau shows in its calculations, have negative economic consequences. This cannot in itself surprise or challenge anyone, but in the context of "lessons learned," the question is what would have been the economic effects in the short and medium term, if the burden increases and reversals had not been carried out or to a lesser extent, or if only reversals and no increase in charges had been made. What would have been the impact of the higher deficits that this would have led to the confidence of domestic and foreign investors? What would have been the consequences of the fact that these cuts should have taken place later? We have known since the 1980s that it is not true that economic growth is self-deserving. Is there any support in politics and society for anti-cyclical policies in terms of burden increases and cuts in an upward economic cycle? The Dutch experience on this issue does not seem to be hopeful. I remember the years when there was a surplus in the budget. Mr Melkert then said: the money is plotting against the plinths. In such a situation, it is, at least politically, completely impossible to gain support for anti-cyclical policies. My question would be whether there really are examples abroad of the anticyclical policy that Dutch economists and agencies also advocate. What are the effects of this? I don't know these examples. Doesn't that also raise the question of whether it is politically possible to pursue the desired economic policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u51	I'm gonna hook up on the last one. I am somewhat surprised that Mr De Grave is now suggesting that perhaps we should distance ourselves from the principle that fiscal policy should be anti-cyclical. It is true, and this is also one of the main criticisms we have raised earlier, that the policy has actually been procyclical. It remains, I believe, also a starting point of this cabinet and of the study group on budgetary space, for example, and of other bodies, that the policy should in principle be anti-cyclical. Does Mr De Grave now distance himself from that? Following on from his last comment on examples of countries that have pursued anti-cyclical policies after the crisis, such an example has been the United States under Obama, albeit to a lesser extent than he himself would have wished. The budget deficit has increased considerably and growth in the US has been significantly higher than in the Netherlands in the years following the major recession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u52	If America is set as an example here, I must say that I do not really have the impression that the American electorate has been terribly impressed by that, I say with all due respect to Mr Van Apeldoorn. There is still a great deal to be said about this, apart from the fact that the structure of the American economy is quite different from that of ours. But back to your question: no, I do not in itself dispute the desirability of anti-cyclical policies. I have said that there are also disadvantages to the procyclical policy that has been pursued, but my question is to what extent this can be done. To what extent is it politically and administratively possible to do so? I have given examples of this. It is particularly difficult in a society to gain support and support for austerity measures and burdens in times of economic success. That's very complicated. It has a greater social logic, painful measures to take in times when people see that it is difficult. Then they must also be addressed. It was interesting to see that in the debate among economists in ESB there was one critical sound in the ESB story four years ago. It came from Professor Derksen, an administrative expert, who pointed to this very point: economists sometimes forget that economic policy cannot be seen as a theoretical exercise, but rather as a political and social reality. That puts limits to what can be done. That does not alter the fact that I am open, so I am also asking for this debate to take place in this context, in this mix, on in particular timing and coherence between burden increase and austerity in times of economic downturn. It is clear from my words that on the other hand, I still find the analysis of economists and economic agencies to be considerably too simple and certainly not to take as a starting point for future policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you to Mr De Grave for an interesting consideration. I am pleased to note that he is open to further analysis of cabinet policy, in terms of which cuts and burdens have now worked out well or not well. I think we should definitely look at that. As far as the US is concerned, Mr De Grave is right that it is not a good example that economic growth alone is not enough. In the US, there has been a lack of a good distribution of that growth. Obama has left a lot of stuff there, and that also applies to this cabinet. I would like to return to an earlier point, namely that the economists were so critical four years ago. I should probably read that back. In my view, at least a number of economists are now even more critical and devastating in their judgment of cabinet policy than they were four years ago. I mentioned Professor Jacobs before. I also mention the main economist of ING, Marieke Blom, who, on the basis of her research, stated in the press that she also supported the cuts in the European context at the time, but that it was not a good idea to cut back in times of recession. Of course, she could have known that in advance, if she had read Keynes' works, for example, but well, that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u54	Can you come to a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u55	I come now to my question. My question concerns the good report figures given by Mr De Grave to this cabinet. He said that the calamity actually didn't work out. If you look at the development of Dutch growth since the crisis, you can see that the Netherlands has only done a fraction better than the average in the euro area. So that includes countries like Greece. If you compare the Netherlands with the countries around us and with our main trading partners France, Belgium, Germany, the UK and the US...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u56	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u57	... growth has been much greater in all these countries. My question to Mr De Grave is simply: in your opinion, has the Netherlands really done so well, thanks to the government policy, seen in the context of that international comparison?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u58	Yes, without any hesitation, my answer to that is yes. This is the kind of discussion we've been having for a while. It is well known that the structure of the Dutch economy, with a high dependence on exports and on the situation on the housing market, and with a large financial sector, means that the effects of the first order in the Netherlands are always more severe than in the neighbouring countries. It is also true that those countries which have taken less action are only now having these effects. I would say: consult with your friends in Belgium, whether they believe that everything went so well there. They've got all this shit going on. At the same time, this structure also ensures that, as soon as you take the good measures, the economy in the Netherlands is moving up again. If you look at the figures now, you can see that the Netherlands has the highest growth in Europe, I believe, together with Bulgaria, that it is clearly moving away from the development of economic growth in other countries. Look at the development of unemployment, at investment: The Netherlands is doing really well. Let's just establish that it is. Perhaps you should take comfort in the idea that the voters do not always pay for it. As the Volkskrant wrote, it is now very simple: if the economy is not doing well, then you will be taken care of; if it is doing well, then it is not relevant. So you always do it wrong. Enough opportunities for Mr Van Apeldoorn in the opposition battle, but let's just say on this point that the Netherlands is doing really well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u59	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn on this point, really, and briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u60	Finally, and briefly, Mr President. The analyses I referred to relate to the projections up to 2017. The Netherlands will then continue to lag behind the countries mentioned. I have one simple question for Mr De Grave: does the fact that the Netherlands is lagging behind in those other countries have nothing to do with the cuts and burdens that have been made over the past four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u61	"Nothing" is another one of those theories. I have just indicated in all nuance that I am open to the debate. The first effect of austerity and increase in costs is always negative. That's just on the list. You also have to ask yourself what would have happened if it hadn't been for you. You have to want to have that discussion, too. You shouldn't just stick around in the years we've been talking about, but you should also look at what's going on now. You have to do so including the well-known analysis that the structure of the Dutch economy always shows this phenomenon. In the event of a crisis, the negative effect in the Netherlands is greater, but the increase after that is all the more powerful. If you look at this in conjunction, I am absolutely opposed to Mr Van Apeldoorn's statement. I really think we are doing very well at the moment. I expect structural developments to continue in comparison with other European countries. There is therefore every reason for the appreciation I have expressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u62	When I hear this hosanna story, I understand even less than last year why the elderly got nothing from the 5 billion tax cut package. That would have been the time to give them a share of the burden relief too. You are making it very clear that there has been a major mistake there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u63	I'm Catholic. When I think about hosanna, other things would happen. For example, I would have started singing now, but that was not the case. I think I'm giving the facts very soberly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u64	Can you answer me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u65	I'm answering. I'm about my own answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u66	You'll wait until I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u67	You used the word "hosanna." If you can't stand a reaction to that right now, you shouldn't. Now the answer to your question. No, that was very good. I would like to point out, for example, the development of employment. It's very favorable. Many people have come to work, precisely thanks to the fact that the reduction of costs is aimed at strengthening the labour market. You should talk to all those tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who have been given a job thanks to this policy. That's the other side of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr Van Rooijen, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u69	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Could Mr De Grave also talk to the millions of elderly people who did not receive the tax reduction? The elderly at the bottom, in particular, are now financially very concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u70	We have had that debate. The balance has been made. I don't think it's appreciated when I talk about the millions. I'd better get on with my argument. I have already said a number of things I would have liked to say in response to Mr Apeldoorn's interruptions. So I can skip it. However, I would like to stress that the Minister in the Lower House has undertaken to consult the Court of Auditors and the Central Planning Bureau to see if it makes sense to evaluate a number of measures taken to draw lessons from them. In the light of this debate, my question is whether the Minister has already been in contact with the Court of Auditors and the CPB. When does he expect to be able to submit the outcome of this consultation to Parliament? I urge that, if possible, this be done at such a time that we can involve the results in the preparations for a new cabinet and a new government agreement. That may be optimistic, but it would be nice if we could have that information. The advantage is that we no longer have to talk so much about austerity. It's good to have that information. Another interesting study promised by the Minister concerns the effects of possibly long-term low interest rates; a study by the Central Planning Office. This study affects a number of key issues, including, of course, pensions, but is also very important for the banking sector. When is the result of this study expected? Moreover, it is very important that the sensitive issue of pensions that many people directly have to deal with is discussed and acted on the basis of facts and objectivity. This is certainly true when it comes to citizens' confidence. Putting facts into question by politicians, as recently happened with the figures on the age at which people die on average, is dangerous and irresponsible. The WRR recently issued an interesting but also stimulating report entitled Society and financial sector in balance. Mr Van Kesteren has already referred to this. I'll give you a quote. "The financial sector and society have come together in a tense relationship. This reduces the economic and social contribution of the sector." That is a harsh conclusion and also a conclusion that raises questions. The discussion in the group also showed to me that there is much, much, much to be seen from the way in which the banks also acted in the Netherlands around the 2008 crisis. And yes, confidence in the financial sector has certainly not been restored. At the same time, we should not forget that the sector is also of great importance to our society. A strong, healthy and efficient financial infrastructure is an indispensable link in a powerful economy that must provide work and support for our welfare state. According to the VVD, we're not getting along very well with just criticizing the banking system. Perhaps it is time to invest in better relationships. Recently, supervisors also indicated that banks face major challenges, including in terms of the earning model, while at the same time demanding a substantial strengthening of solvency. I invite the Minister to respond in conjunction with this. I'm just making a disclaimer. I am a member of ING Nederland's Supervisory Board on a proposal from the central works council. That is why the relevant passage on the financial sector that I have just read has been put before and discussed with the VVD Group. I have therefore spoken these words in accordance with that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mr President, excuse me, Madam President. I saw seven men on the front page of Der Spiegel and that distracted me. Mr De Grave made a positive comment to the banks. Does he have an opinion on the drama that has occurred and continues to occur at Deutsche Bank? According to an analysis by Der Spiegel, that bank is actually bankrupt. There you can see how it derails. I would like an answer to this, given the knowledge that Mr De Grave has as shown above.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u72	I am not a member of the Supervisory Board or of the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank. I do not have enough knowledge and insight to say a lot of sensible things about it, other than what I read in the newspaper. I have indicated that there are still major problems in the banking sector. Not all the lessons have yet been learned from the crisis. There is still a lot to be done by banks. However, I would also like to point out the other side. It doesn't make much sense to stick to that opinion alone. It is simply an incredibly important sector for everything that we find important in the Netherlands. It is also a question of how we deal with it. Those banks still face very big challenges. How can we help banks to continue to play this important role in the future, when they face these enormous challenges? The thousands of layoffs also draw deep tracks. We are particularly concerned that the debate should not only be about risks and threats, but also about how to keep this important sector stable and healthy in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u73	Thanks for the answer. That strikes me as a little more balanced. I understand his view of the role of the banks. There's always two sides. Can banks in the Netherlands be given a somewhat greater place to function more socially? They have a useful function for ordinary customers and these are not Deutsche Bank's customers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u74	That must certainly be part of the debate. This is one of the tasks of a healthy bank. Then there is also the question of how we can do that. There are consequences. When there is a significant increase in solvency, you also talk about profitability, because how else can you do that? There is certainly a certain degree of coherence. It has been asked whether pension funds and banks can invest extra in the Dutch economy. There are many aspects. Basically, you have to look at it in conjunction. If you don't, you can make wrong decisions with negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u75	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u76	I have a short question. Does Mr De Grave think that the European Central Bank's policy could not be treated a little more critically, because it seriously affects the income model of the banks, including in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u77	You know we have an independent central bank. That's a big good, by the way. I really wouldn't like to go back to times when politics was about central bank policy. You have even more knowledge of that history than I do. At a time when we in Europe had central banks doing what politics thought, things have happened that are really much worse. So we shouldn't want to go there. I have all kinds of private images and feelings about the European Central Bank's policy. I believe that the Minister has said some sensible things, including the element you mention, about the negative aspects of current policy. I would not like to say more than what the Minister has said about it. The comments seem to me to be justified. But again, I would stress that it is also important that we have an independent European Central Bank. I would like to comment on the measures proposed by the WRR. You can have a debate on the extent to which debt-making should be fiscally favoured, especially if you put it like this: "making debt." But what if you had to formulate how to deal with debt-funded investments? Look, that sounds a lot different. About facilitating debt making, everyone says: we must stop doing so immediately. But with debt-enhancing investments, everyone thinks that's a good thing. But it's exactly the same. So you're gonna have to think about how you want it now. I would like to discuss the following with the Minister and the Secretary of State. Recently, there was a study by the IMF on the same subject as in the WRR study. But anyway, he only came up with: no more doing, all that debt making tax facilitation. The IMF had a more interesting analysis. It emphasizes to a large extent what the WRR said, namely that the rising debt ratio was then a serious threat to the economy around the world. The IMF also points to the fact that one reason for this is the different tax treatment of debt and equity. But then the IMF's analysis deviates from that of the WRR, in the sense that it indicates that you can also tackle the problem by developing tax facilities similar to those financed by debt for equity-funded investments. So instead of punishing you, you're gonna stimulate it. According to the IMF, this method results in a debt reduction greater than the method of tax reduction of the deduction price of investments. Belgium, according to the IMF, already has such a deduction for equity-funded investments since 2006. In Belgium, the average debt position is 40%. In similar countries, this is 60%, which reduces the dependence on the financial sector in Belgium. Italy also knows the system. Switzerland - if we have to go to the category of 'like countries' - I saw the Minister looking at Belgium economically and Italy - introduce it as of 1 January. In Denmark, a proposal is before Parliament. The IMF points out that the current low interest rates provide a good opportunity to address the issues outlined. The VVD Group is certainly interested in the IMF's thinking. Would the directors like to map out the advantages and disadvantages of the IMF's approach to the Netherlands and let this be part of the government's response to the WRR's report, and do so at a time when it can be involved in the cabinet formation? Where this has a little more urgency. Once again, for the financial policy pursued, the rulers deserve to be congratulated. Our questions mainly concern subjects which will be of great importance for the policy to be pursued by a subsequent government. We hope and expect the directors with all their energy to take up this preparatory work and look forward to their answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u78	Mr. Chairman. The scenes, perhaps on the occasion of your birthday celebration, festively lit above our heads in this beautiful room refer to the history of the Netherlands in the seventeenth century. The story of a small country in a big world. The annual general financial considerations allow for a rethinking of the position of that small country in a world which has been fully mapped but which has not become more transparent. For this rethink, the more room is now at the end of a turbulent cabinet period the Millions' note, after cleaning up for complacency, shoulder beaters and foreparts that are mainly reversed particles, has little more to offer us new plans. The ceiling painting is rich in current symbolism. Through the shutters above, Dutch trading partners look in curiously: French and Germans, Turks and Spaniards, Italians and Russians. Curiosity was mutual, because from this room the opportunities of globalisation were seen and exploited long before the word was invented. If there is anything we should be concerned about in these general financial considerations, it is the imminent loss of this tradition, the degeneration of this curiosity into suspicion and suspicion. Globalisation has never been a natural development. The resulting economic adjustments have never been achieved without pain and effort. But the small Netherlands could become a world-class economy by facing and continuing to see the need for these constant adjustments. It could also become a society that was envyed throughout the world for its social cohesion, for its own decent and humane adaptation processes, and for its victims to see new opportunities. This combination of high economic competitiveness and strong social solidarity makes the Netherlands unique worldwide. All the more worrying is the decline in public support for globalisation and Europeanisation, resulting from the feeling that we have long ceased to be active key players and would do better to close the doors. Earlier, during the general political discussions, the chairman of my group, Thom de Graaf, pointed out the introversion of this year's speech, which devoted only one word to that angry outside world. This broad, inward-oriented concern and the fear of decline among so many in the Netherlands are not ignored. It is, in my group's opinion, one of the main tasks of Dutch politics to regain national self-confidence, as a basis for a broad international role. International thinking, international action, that is twice as important in a world where fear of others is so on the rise and in which Europe must not let itself be paralyzed by defeatism. Our tradition of decent and humane reforms lays the national foundation for this. We have that route to the future entirely in our own democratic hands. If so many political parties, including my own party, take the concerns about division and inequality of opportunity as their first priority, nothing and no one will stop us from giving them a political follow-up through appropriate labour market reforms, tax systems and knowledge systems. It is all the more regrettable that in the first two of these three years they have virtually failed to do so, and that an important part of the third, public research expenditure in the Netherlands, showed a shameful decline. Should the Minister of Finance not have been able and should have done something about this in the year of the Dutch Nobel Prize? The tax system is still waiting for the big ten-year maintenance. How does the Minister assess the efforts of this cabinet to provide flexible workers with new guidance? According to the CPB, we should not expect too much of that. This applies in particular to the DBA Act. A law on which we crossed swords with the Secretary of State less than a year ago in this Chamber. All the concerns, which were expressed on behalf of my group, have manifested themselves. Unfamiliar clients put theirzzp'ers aside or flights in payrolling contracts, and the self-employed are the victims in both cases. Even VNO-NCW and FNV have recently revised their assessment of the DBA Act, and the Secretary of State has now, I suspect. Have we now come from a difficult enforceable VAR at a actually much more difficult to enforce Law DBA? What about the remainder of the enforcement that remains in the case of the situation of obvious malice? The DBA Act still exists and as long as nothing is clear, that situation may remain or worsen uncertainty. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u79	Thezzp'ers are very fond of the VVD and that also applies to their position. We were therefore critical of the DBA Act with D66. We talked about whether this was new or old paper, but we supported the proposal. One of the reasons was that we do not want privileges in the field of taxes for various types of employees and employers or, in this case, clients. We have seen that the assessment of the clients was not entirely correct because of the focus on thezzp'er, whose interests we wanted to defend. In the second term of the plenary debate, we said that the great absentee was the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, Mr Asscher. In our view, this is a labour law problem. My question to Mr Rinnooy Kan is whether he has also come to the conclusion that this is actually a labour law problem that needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u80	In fact, we had come to that conclusion long before the debate on the DBA Act took place here. Precisely in the run-up to this point, the support of the entire Chamber, because of D66, was certain that there was an urgent need for a fundamental rethink of the basic principles of our labour market policy and the underlying case law and legislation. In the end, a majority of this Chamber supported the Secretary of State in his preference to do something about the apparently difficult VAR in the short term. With him and with you, I find that the DBA Act that served this purpose did not in practice deliver what was hoped and expected. On the contrary, all the concerns expressed by us, namely uncertainty with the self-employed as the victim, have become widely visible. Now we can only see that this legislation has failed in any case. That does not make it any less urgent to do what was advocated at the time. At the same time, the question remains as to how we can provide some guidance for all these self-employed persons who have been in uncertainty for so long and have had extremely unpleasant consequences of this for the remaining duration of the DBA Act. That is what my question has been addressed to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u81	May I put a supplementary question to Mr Rinnooy Kan? He agreed that the starting date of 1 May 2017 had been postponed to 1 January 2018. I hear him speaking quite critically about the DBA Act. Is his view that the law should be completely reversed? Now we get a delay of six months and then maybe get the same problems that are now experienced byzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u82	I am not standing here to make one nice comment about the DBA Act. Everything we thought could go wrong has gone wrong. As long as there is no certainty as to what is going to happen for the self-employed in the remaining term of the law, that criticism remains. We should never have started this adventure, but it happened anyway. We should have thought carefully about how the labour market of the future should be organised. We must concentrate on this, but in the meantime I note that hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people spoke about half a million self-employed people who have had a very unpleasant few months that we could have saved them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u83	In other words, what has now been announced by the Secretary of State, as far as Mr Rinnooy Kan is concerned, is too thin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u84	The announcement seems to me to imply that the law will not be enforced, with the exception of obvious malice. In any case, I would like to ask how the ruling on this matter should be interpreted. This is the worst possible damage, even if it remains a fact that the last few months have been extremely unfortunate for the self-employed, and we can concentrate on what is desirable and necessary for future legislation on the labour market. National priorities - we just got one - are important, but we should not be blind to international shortcomings in the globalisation process. I'd like to say something about that. The rapid global decline in extreme poverty is undoubtedly the greatest success of globalisation, but the social and environmental conditions under which countless world citizens have to work are unabated and often politically out of reach. The 2008 commitment of organised Dutch business to pursue Dutch social and environmental standards in all international supply chains deserves support and sympathy. It is a heroic task whose progress must be carefully monitored. Much more difficult is the question of whether our borders should not be deliberately closed to products of undesirable composition or origin, as is currently regulated at European level for non-sustainable wood. However, what can be seen as genuine concern about urgent sustainability or unacceptable child labour can in practice amount to uncircumcised protectionism, which wrongly deprives entrepreneurs from emerging markets of access to the Western market. Then it would be better not to close the borders too quickly and to rely on the sensible purchasing behaviour of the well-informed consumer. I would ask the Minister of Finance to reflect again on the circumstances under which the starting point of free trade should depart from considerations of sustainability or decency. Does the Government agree with the view that the approach adopted by the World Trade Organisation in this area does not provide sufficient scope for such considerations? In addition to complimenting this cabinet for its own persistent sustainability, it also deserves compliments for the elements of its reform agenda regulated by a broad constructive coalition. D66 has wanted to cooperate in this Chamber at many times. The Netherlands stands better for it than four years ago. That was no easy task. The crisis that hit Western economies after 2008 was unprecedentedly wide and deep. It is precisely for this reason that we can learn from differences in national response. The comparison shows that the Netherlands has taken a relatively long time to get back on steam. Belgium, Germany, France and Austria were already back to the pre-crisis level in 2010 or 2011. The Netherlands wasn't until 2015. I would also like to make this comment in connection with the debate initiated by Mr De Grave, a debate of which he seems to want to promote in particular, if the final conclusion remains. I think there is real reason to take another critical look at what the Netherlands has agreed in those years. I ask the Minister of Finance what crisis tips he will leave for his successor in the transfer file. After all, how much does he estimate the impact of last year's spending impulse of 5 billion? With today's knowledge, it's easy to get from yesterday, I know that. If Keynes, in the opinion of most economists, has won it from Friedman afterwards, what does that mean for the European approach to the next recession? I suspect in advance that in the Minister's answer to these questions one Dutch peculiarity will be prominent, namely our long balances. We are the country of the long-term balance sheet, at national but also at individual level. There has not yet been much of a reduction in the balance sheet, which has so often been advocated. We lend ourselves dull and we save ourselves dull and we consume our duller as we begin to feel richer with a look at that balance. As a result, our behaviour as a consumer is highly dictated by our success or failure as a property speculator. Does he share, for example, my group's view that any interaction between retirement and housing financing would be urgently desirable? Do we not actually save a little too much in the Netherlands over the whole life cycle? These special Dutch balance sheets not only mark our behaviour as consumers, they also have a heavy impact on our financial sector, on which so much has been and is to be done. In the recent opinion Society and financial sector in balance, it has already been quoted by previous speakers, the WRR advocates continued political attention to the woe of that sector, other than the cyclically driven, volatile attention of today. The importance of that sector for country and economy would certainly justify an annual discussion, and in the absence of a separate event as suggested by the WRR, would the Minister agree that this is a good idea? These General Reviews must then fulfil that role. I would like to invite the Minister to contribute to this; there are plenty of subjects. On the banking side, for example, the observation that our three large banks have become very similar in their credit income in their dependence on the mortgage business; a shared vulnerability. Does the Minister now consider it desirable, in this light, to seek in the short term further strengthening of the balance sheet of these large banks, as is currently being discussed in and around Basel? Does he see that, in conjunction with the IMF's argument, quoted again, and also suggested by my group, other fiscal balance between equity and debt? Does this bank's balance-sheet strengthening cope with the simultaneous desire for wider lending to SMEs, or does the latter, as last suggested by the President of the Netherlands Bank, make itself too dependent on the banking system in its need for credit? Previously, D66 advocated the desirability of greater diversity within the financial system, powered by a more flexible system of authorisation and supervision. Does the Minister see any positive developments here? And how does this new space within the system relate to the size and development of the so-called shadow banks? With the Minister, I agree with the importance of distributed-ledger techniques such as blockchain for financial innovation, techniques on which the Finance Committee of this Chamber has recently been informed separately, but I also see the additional security risks after one or two deconfitures around bitcoin. Is the Minister convinced that the Netherlands has a strong position in this area? Are there any new tasks ahead of him for the Dutch or European regulators? The overall financial sector is significantly affected by the persistently low interest rates. This has also been referred to by previous speakers. The consequences for banks, insurers and pension funds are well known. We look forward to the discussion later this year with the Minister on the UFR. The hope that this would be a short-term, temporary episode is beginning to make way for my group's assessment that interest rates can continue to be below zero for many years to come. How does the Minister assess that perspective in its impact on our loan and savings behaviour? In some European countries the charging of negative interest rates to individuals is prohibited by law. Should the Netherlands join that line? Does not the low interest rate alone in its consequences for pension funds and insurers give cause to reconsider the balance between the first and second pension pillars in favour of a higher AOW? To what extent does the Minister consider the monetary policy of the European Central Bank to be primarily responsible for this low rate of interest? And could he indicate where that monetary policy, which the Dutch Bank is increasingly critical of, is going to run against its natural borders, and what follow-up scenarios would our country, as part of Europe, have to take into account? This last question reflects my concern, undoubtedly shared by many here, that Europe's low economic growth is still not adequately combated. Last year I expressed the fear that the Japaneseisation of Europe was far more likely to occur to me than Islamization, and that fear has still not disappeared. That prospect is not in any way cheerful, and the question remains whether a more active role of the government as an investor in a sustainable future and road worker of our national savings surplus should not be part of the solution. The European Commission has recently encouraged the Netherlands to do so, as others have also noticed, and the Sustainable Growth Study Group has put forward interesting suggestions for this in many areas of government policy. For example, I would mention the broad, unabatedly useful and cost-effective strengthening of our knowledge system. I also mention the sustainability of the construction that has become part of the previous Tax Plan under pressure from this Chamber, but is far from being realised. Would the Minister explain what concrete results have been achieved and what scope he sees for intensification, as well as in the broad field of energy transition? What is his view of the additional investment effort suggested by the committee? Would the selective promotion by appropriate regulation of the highly emerging collaborative economy, which allows for reuse and recycling, but also creates external costs that are difficult to recover, not be able to accelerate sustainable growth further? Unlike the impression that is sometimes given in the Millions note, the Netherlands is far from finished. There is more at stake here than an extra percent sustainable rise in prosperity, no matter how welcome it would be. The worldwide increasing aversion to globalisation, shockingly demonstrated by Donald Trump's election victory and nurtured by the growing inequality in income and wealth in many places, are putting the vitality of our Western market economy to the test. There is no need to endorse the gloomy assessments in Professor Van Bavel's recent book on this subject, in order to advocate the restoration of social self-confidence as an important political priority and social cohesion as an important prerequisite. It was not necessary to wait until after the elections. In my group's view, however, that would have asked for a different millions note than the one before us today. A millions note with an extra focus on the key priorities in the fields of knowledge and the labour market, which my group believes are essential. A millions note with space for initiatives to create new opportunities and combat the growing division of the Netherlands, which is so much at stake. And a millions note that doesn't express satisfaction and complacency, but impatience and high ambitions of change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u85	Mr. Chairman. For many people, the conversation about public finances is a far-from-their-bed show. The Hague, technocratic and abstract. Now you could say that there is also reason to do so: making policy and translating it into money is not so simple for a complex household like the government. And that, partly because of this complexity, we have opted for a representative democracy in which the administration and control are left to specialists. The danger is, however, that we will leave politics to politicians and the economy to economists and that this will be at the expense of the involvement of citizens, while economic citizenship will help to obtain clarity that people really need. Isn't that exactly what economy is about: optimally meeting people's needs? Is it not right for politics to act on the basis of these needs? From that perspective, it is clear that saving banks as such does not really meet the needs of people. What one does want is a reliable financial sector that puts the customer's wishes and interests at the centre. Also, keeping refugees outside national borders has little to do with needs and certainly not with those of the unfortunate ones involved. This is true of creating a safe world where it is good for everyone and, closer to home, security of existence, good work, a safe street, bonding and development opportunities. This does not, of course, mean that we should not have saved the banks and that we should not have allowed the flow of refugees to be accommodated where they need to be, to be contained where they can and better distributed where they need to be. However, it is emergency measures that are necessary because we have looked away too long from the underlying problem. The way in which the banking system has developed since the 1980s has not been at the service of the customer nor of society. In fact, it did not meet our needs, but allowed the interests of a small group, shareholders, directors, top officials, to prevail over those of a large group. People are not going to go to war on the basis of a need, even if this is sometimes proposed with a call on the jihad or on regional and geopolitical interests. The practice is, however, that a lot of political battle is about how emergency measures are taken, with all the technocracy involved, and increasingly about twisting, abandoning or ignoring facts. It is the job of politicians, left or right, progressive or conservative, to avoid such struggles and to fight for what they are on earth: to bridge what people want and what they can do. If we look at the 2017 Millions Note from this perspective, we can identify a number of things. These relate in turn to the government policy of recent years, to the policy set out in the present Millions Note and to the agenda for the future. Firstly, since 2008, successive governments have had to deal with crisis management. That was necessary but, as has just been pointed out, of course it was never the intention. The intermediate position of the billions of interventions for banks and insurers, for AEGON and ING, for ABN AMRO and SNS REAAL, for the victims of Icesave, is 2 billion positive. That is a great compliment for then Minister of Finance Wouter Bos and his successors. But of course they too would have preferred that nationalizations, compensations, emergency loans and guarantees should not have been necessary. Behind unstable banks are insecure savers, thousands of redundant workers and companies that see their credit drying up. They are the victims of a completely derailed sector, and that should never have happened. Such a derailment has also occurred within the European Union. Here, too, successive Cabinets have shown their ability and perseverance to operate to prevent a complete collapse of the euro area. Many will agree with me that Jeroen Dijsselbloem, from his double position as our Finance Minister and President of the Eurogroup, has played a crucial role in this, not only to manage the consequences of the debacle in Greece, Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Cyprus, but also by taking the bail-in mechanism into account where it belongs. However, we would have liked and should have prevented the fact that Greece's public finances were under-supervised, that in many countries real estate bubbles had been created and that debt financing had become the standard. A similar analysis can also be made for our own country. In 2010, it was found that the economic crisis, which started with the banks in 2008, could not be solved by mere spending impulse. The balance sheet crisis, with far too much debt from both banks and companies, and from both homeowners and now, after two years of stimulus policy, the government itself, required a substantial package of structural reforms and associated reversals. On page 77 of the Millions note this becomes clear at a glance. The gap between the development of public expenditure and GDP had become so large in 2010 that our country was threatened with financial disruption in the event of unchanged policies. There was nothing else to do but clean up the balance sheets, reduce the mortgage interest rate deduction, increase the AOW age and curb the growth of healthcare expenditure. Those were not ad hoc cuts, but measures to restore long-term sustainability of public finances for the first time in years, thereby ensuring that the welfare state will also be there for our children and their children. Here too, however, the leaking roof should have been repaired much earlier and in better weather. The latter does not detract from the great merits of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet; rather, it underlines the scope of the responsibility it has taken. If we look at this short history from the needs perspective, it can be said that both the banking crisis and the euro crisis have been successfully intervened, but that it has not yet created a financial sector that focuses on customer interests and that there is no prospect of sustainable stability mechanisms within the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u86	Let me come back to Mr Postema's analysis that cuts were in fact inevitable, given the state of public finances. Can he respond to the criticisms of the aforementioned economists, the Economic Bureau of ING and Bas Jacobs? They argue that, in addition to perhaps structural reforms, which, for example, were needed in the housing market, less hard cuts might have led to more economic growth and thus also to a reduction in the deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u87	The fine-tuning of the measures taken in 2008 and 2009 as well as in 2012 is certainly the subject of a good debate. With the wisdom of retrospect, I do not rule out the possibility that certain interventions might have had to be different. The spirit of my words is, however, I have already argued in this Chamber once before that in 2008 and 2009 a very strong spending impulse was initially given, resulting in a very rapid budget deficit and a government debt. In 2011, at the beginning of 2012, we noticed that this did not lead to an attractive economy, which forced us to pursue a different policy, much more focused on structural balance sheets and also on the long-term feasibility balance for public finances. I think that is an undersnow, including the economists quoted by Mr Van Apeldoorn. We did, in the first instance, encourage the economy, but when it did not succeed, we had to go along with each other with a different policy. That was the policy that the Rutte/Asscher cabinet can count as his.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u88	Mr Postema calls it fine-tuning, an interesting choice of words, but I want to make it more concrete. According to the CPB calculations, 5% of economic growth has been lost due to the savings and burden increases of a total of 50 billion. Then we are talking about about 40 billion. This would have generated additional tax revenues of around 15 billion. Along this road, the path of economic growth, I would once again like to ask whether Mr Postema has also seen a deficit reduction. Or is Mr. Postema's math another?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u89	Yeah, absolutely. It is not so much a question of a different calculation, but it is my job not only to bring in the models of the Central Planning Bureau if the calculations fit in my style. I know Mr Van Apeldoorn's party as a party that is very critical of the CPB. I find it strange that suddenly the figures of the CPB are being taken into account, just as I find it strange that Mr Van Apeldoorn refers five times in this debate to the economic office of a large bank and three times in the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u90	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u91	Mr. Postema is turning it into a nice song. With regard to the CPB, we are very critical of the long-term calculations and predictions up to 2060. As far as the short term is concerned, of course, we can do the math. My simple question to Mr Postema is as follows: if he ignores the CPB calculations, what calculations would he come up with? Which model does he base his analysis on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u92	I will certainly not put the calculations of the CPB next to me, only underline their relativity. Moreover, Mr Van Apeldoorn himself sees in the Millions Note that the medium-term estimates of the CPB give us an extremely positive picture of our country. That seems to me to be at least as relevant as looking back and asking what would have happened if we had carried out fine-tuning something else. He mentions the example of the housing market. What is the purpose of his comment on this? Shouldn't we have reduced the mortgage interest rate deduction? Shouldn't we have passed the House Act? Should we not have realised that households in the Netherlands have owed too much? The moment you introduce certain things and actually re-create the market to some extent, that certainly has consequences. It also has spending effects. I am truly convinced that these things have been necessary to get our country back on the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u93	I would like to join Mr Van Apeldoorn. Mr Postema does not answer the question whether we could have done it in a different and better way. A lot of growth has been lost. The cuts have contributed to a huge loss of jobs. A number of 350 000 jobs will be discussed in the period from 2008 to 2016. A lot of work has been lost. Let me mention the example of the cuts in health care. There, incredibly many jobs have been lost, especially for people working in home care, for example. Social discontent is great. We now also know that social demand for care is increasing again. Has this been a sensible austerity? This austerity has led to a great deal of unemployment. We must now say that it is socially desirable for us to invest in health care again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u94	Mrs Vos speaks of a reduction in health care. I don't recognize that. Every year more money has been spent on care than the year before. This in no way meets the definition of austerity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u95	I think that's a pretty lame trick. You yourself indicated that public expenditure had to be tempered on care. Let me put it in your own words. Growth has slowed down, but that has led many people to feel that they have not received enough care. It has also led to a lot of redundancies in a number of healthcare sectors. Right now we're telling each other that more is needed, that we're going to invest again, that there's room again. Are we not engaged in a strange zigzag policy in this area? This is just an example, you know. Shouldn't we have done these interventions in a different and more gradual way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u96	I think Mrs Vos gives an excellent example. "Zigzag" is not my words, but it is unmistakable that some reversals are harder planned than they have to be, thanks to the growth that is now there. Then I think it would be a good idea to resume such a austerity and make such a reversal. If you see what the cabinet is spending extra on nursing care, we can be extremely happy that that money will be available again for something as important as that care. Mrs Vos is right to say that, with the task of making the coalition agreement in 2012, a certain commitment has been made. In my view, the fact that the cabinet has re-routed the journey there is something to praise the cabinet and not something to condemn the cabinet for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u97	Finally, Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u98	I would like to thank Mr Postema for his answer. It seems to me to be a good thing, and I ask him whether he would not support it....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u99	I am from learning and, if necessary, from evaluating. The only thing I have some concerns about is the wide variety of opinions, among specialists or self-appointed specialists, on the very subject. I wonder if you can ever bring out the ultimate clarity about this. Like my colleague De Grave, I have done my homework in preparation for these General Financial Reviews and, among other things, I have looked at the discussion we had in 2012-2013 on whether there was too much savings compared to economic growth. Not only according to ESB, but also according to sources such as Het Financieele Dagblad and the discussion that was held at the time among economists, it is apparently an extremely complicated matter to give the desired clarity. If an additional appeal to the cabinet would help, I certainly support that appeal, but I have my doubts about that. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. For the banks, the debate will have to be reopened on how bankers can be shielded from their shareholders so that they can do what they are doing on earth. With ringfencing, bail-ins, living wills and resolutions alone, we don't get there, just separate from the alienating language. Is the government prepared, my first question to the Minister of Finance, to enter into talks with the banks on this subject during this cabinet period? I believe that the excellent WRR report already mentioned provides a good starting point for this. For the euro area, the currency union is not yet complete, as the Dutch Bank also states in its 2015 annual report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u100	I have a question for Mr Postema, out of curiosity. Can he tell me how the banks can increase their solvency as much as the PvdA wants, if the PvdA wants to distance the shareholders at the same time, as Mr Postema puts it, with all the arguments he gives for this, and at the same time raise the bank tax considerably, because that is also in the PvdA election programme? For shareholders it is therefore made very unattractive, the banking tax is increased and solvency needs to increase significantly. I can't tie these cases together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u101	Well, then Mr De Grave is doing himself a little short, because I think he can do an excellent job of tying it up. At a time when debt is decreasing, solvency is increasing. You can strengthen a bank's balance sheet in all kinds of ways, without necessarily turning the profit button. I am by no means saying that no profit should be made. I say, however, that since the 1980s, profits have become so overwhelmingly dominant for the shareholders of the world's banks that, in conjunction with the liberalization of capital markets, it has had a complete destructive effect on such an important sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u102	Sure, and I'm sure it's had that. That is what I said in my contribution. Thank you, by the way, for the intelligence you have given me, but I regret to disappoint you again, because I do not understand something, namely that you say: you can also increase solvency, not by increasing equity, but by reducing debt. Can you tell me what is being done by banks at the moment, which you say should be less? The lending to business? Homes? What of the business that the Dutch banks are doing now should not be done anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u103	Let me say first of all that the financing of banks has only a limited part to do with companies and families. To a very large extent, that is interbank. That is exactly what we have seen in recent years: this interbank dependency makes system crises too easy. Under the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, policy has been used precisely to reduce this dependence. This includes, on the one hand, a stronger solvency position and, on the other hand, less dependence on each other. I can give you another example, by the way. If you look at the role played by the banks in the financing of governments, Mr De Grave will also agree with me that one debtor is actually financing the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u104	Finally, Mr De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u105	Sure, my final remark. A lot is said here "has been" and "was." I am now talking about the current situation, as is the case in the Netherlands. I see, as the regulators say, huge challenges facing the banks. Their pay model is under tremendous pressure. At the same time, the Labour Party, if I understand correctly, says in its electoral programme: the banking tax must be increased and solvency must be increased. I can't rhyme all that with each other. I don't know how banks can do all that at the same time, but well, I invited the Minister to say something about that too. We're going to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u106	Deal. I have just stated that the euro area has not yet completed its monetary union and that the Netherlands Bank also notes this in its annual report 2015. The risk of financial turbulence has been reduced with the tightening of the Stability and Growth Pact, the macroeconomic imbalances procedure and the European Stability Mechanism, but the balance between the extent to which governments share risks and the extent to which they can mitigate these risks through European coordination is still lacking. For this purpose, the implementation of the Five Presidents' Report published last year should be helpful, according to the Dutch Bank. However, that report ignores the question of whether there is a much more fundamental choice in terms of strengthening EMU. Either we give countries the opportunity to leave the euro area temporarily or permanently to put things in order, or we are responsible for each other's debt through central financing of government deficits, so that countries do not fall prey to the whims of financial markets. Can the Minister explain why these questions are not addressed in the report that is also in his name? How's he looking at it now? Does he see opportunities, including from his presidency of the euro area, for this discussion to continue? Or do we keep saying to each other that EMU has no problems, as long as everyone abides by the rules? Secondly, in the context of the Millions Note before us, the question can and must be asked as to whether this actually meets the needs of the people, or whether we are, without a doubt, again sinning on ad hoc measures. I mean both. It is, of course, essential for our economy to find its way back up and for people to see their purchasing power and prospects for work improve in full. There is a long-term substantial growth forecast, as also demonstrated by the medium-term review 2018-2021, even after the downward adjustment of 0.4 percentage points due to the uncertainty after the Brexirefementum. In addition to this growth, the long-term sustainability balance appears to have improved in such a way that not only we but also future generations benefit from what has been achieved by the current government policy in terms of social security, care and education. In the short term, too, we are happy with the EUR 1.1 billion which the cabinet is calling for a balanced and positive purchasing power policy, especially for the elderly and the minimum, with a reduction in the burden on the lowest income and an increase in the minimum youth wage. This responds to the fundamental need for security of living and work that pays off. However, there are a number of measures, or rather the absence of them, which raise questions. An example that can have a direct impact on people's well-being is the actual use of decentralised care funds. A recent survey by the NOS and National Government shows that almost all municipalities last year had money for the care and support of their residents in the context of the Wmo. However, one in five of these municipalities did not separate this excess money, but added it to the general reserves. In our view, this is not a good development given the simultaneous problems in youth care and domestic care. It is precisely in the social domain that municipalities must comply with their duty of care and, where necessary, be mutually supportive. Does the government, for example, ask the Minister of Finance, have sufficient instruments to ensure this and, if necessary, enforce it? Another example is the promotion of equality of opportunity in education. A total of EUR 87 million will be earmarked for the next three years. Now equality of opportunity in education for the Labour Party has been a spearhead since its creation and we are proud that the Netherlands has always been at the forefront of this issue. Indications that this equality of opportunity would decrease, as recently emerged from the State of Education of the Education Inspectorate, should therefore be taken very seriously. But taking that seriously also involves thinking about effective policies and not rushing them. Can the Minister explain why it is already financially and politically committed to intensifying the education deficit policy, while the government announces in the same Millions Note an interdepartmental policy research on educational disadvantages policy? And how is it not possible for the government to sit back on the school seat instead of simply restricting itself to clear frameworks and objectives? That was meant by the Time for Education report of the Dijsselbloem Commission, wasn't it? And some things are not taken up, but there is every reason to do so. It is difficult for my group to follow that the cabinet is failing to close prisons, while a third of the cells are already empty and a further reduction in crime is expected in the coming years. How can we ask the government that Minister Van der Steur should send a letter to the House of Representatives at the beginning of this year and that we see nothing of this in the Millions' Note and in the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice? It is precisely at the Ministry of Security and Justice that you would expect every dime to be reversed twice, especially since the General Court of Auditors, in its 2015 audit, found that there were serious shortcomings in this department. Surely it cannot be the case that both Parliament's Chambers are focusing on the release of more resources for Security and Justice, while at the same time ignoring obvious savings. A good control function, which the Court of Auditors calls for, is not limited to spending, but does it have as much a role as it does in terms of efficiency? Sensitive, economical and careful, that's how I've always learned. Of course, this also includes the fact that we are using a large part of the savings to retrain and lead to new work for the staff involved in the prison system. Thirdly and finally, I would like to look forward with colleagues and the cabinet to the coming years, to the medium term, again trying to speak as much as possible from the perspective of people's needs. In this context, there are a number of positive points in the current Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u107	I have a question for Mr Postema. I thought he was going to mention examples of groups that are lagging behind the purchasing power violence that is coming. I thought he might come up with that fine example that I introduced during the General Political Reviews. Because of the accumulation of taxes, surcharges and deductions, some people earn a lot more gross, but they have very little left. Does Mr Postema have an opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u108	I would like to avoid repeating that discussion here during the General Political Reviews. For a specific target group where you tie all the factors together, there is a possibility that people will hardly progress if they work more. As you know from answers, not just from me but from many in this house, it is very difficult to draw up policies there. When it comes to purchasing power policy and preventing a fall in income, we always have to talk about substantial groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u109	I understand that answer, but if it is so significant, it is justified to continue to do so during the General Financial Reviews. I was hoping you'd give an appreciation of this example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-3.u110	I'm sorry to disappoint you then. For the coming years, the government will provide additional EUR 300 million for the armed forces, including EUR 200 million for the material and human basis. With these additional resources, the cabinet has since 2014 structurally added 870 million euros to the budget of the Ministry of Defence. And that is necessary, not only to restore undesirable effects of previous austerity, but also because security, both ours and the victims of war violence and piracy, is a basic need. The cabinet also frees additional resources to structurally reverse the mandate of the Long-Term Care Act of 500 million euros from 2017. Mrs. Vos and I have been talking about that. This shows courage and, above all, compassion. The system of the Budgetary Framework Care (BKZ) in conjunction with the care agreements concluded have led to a reduction in healthcare expenditure during this cabinet period. However, an important focus is to ensure this also for the coming years. Expenditure currently covered by the IPS will increase by 4.3% on average every year with the end of these agreements, from EUR 68.5 billion in 2017 to EUR 81.1 billion in 2021. This is done while healthcare expenditure grew by an average of 1.7% per year between 2011 and 2017. A new cabinet will thus have to come up with new agreements. In order to ensure good and accessible care, it is necessary to increase cooperation between health care institutions in the region and also at national level, to clarify the number of transactions and tariffs and to improve the distribution of the risks of increased demand by institutions and insurers. My group also welcomes the content and tone of the Millions Note on the climate agreement concluded in Paris in December last year, which was ratified and entered into force at the beginning of this month. What a difference in speed with Kyoto and in effectiveness with Copenhagen. The EU committed itself in this climate agreement to reducing CO emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990. The Dutch efforts will be focused on this goal. We look forward to the energy agenda announced by the cabinet, which includes the steps to further shape the energy transition in the medium and long term. Just as the government has become increasingly serious about greenhouse gas emissions over recent years, partly due to pressure from citizens, businesses and civil society, it has gradually become aware of the inadmissibility of various international tax practices, in which our country has not rarely played a prominent role and sometimes still plays a prominent role. After a phase of denial and legism, with the help of the OECD and the European Union, it is now leading the way in combating unwanted tax practices. Further efforts in this area in the coming years are important not only to reduce the tax burden on other bases, such as labour or the environment, but also to undermine the support of the rest of society for fair taxation. Speaking of need, in this regard, justice. Furthermore, it is important to create a common European corporate tax base, a common European corporate tax base, which gives multinationals less chance to reduce their tax base. At present, the European Member States miss EUR 50 to 70 billion a year because companies use the loopholes of as many as 28 tax laws in Europe. Can the Secretary of State for Finance state why the government seems to be taking such a critical approach to this important initiative? Is it not precisely the Vpb that lends itself to policy coordination between the EU countries? Has this not been used for a long time as an excuse for a separate course, for an all entrance? Can the Secretary of State confirm immediately that the Netherlands will simply comply with its obligations to exchange tax rulings in the context of the agreements to this end in an international context? Why is there no central registration of these rulings? Is it so difficult to send a message to the tax authorities' regional offices that they have to come forward with the rulings? I'm rounding up. This year, too, the Millions Note is largely based on the Macro Economic Recognition of the Central Planning Office. The footnotes also show that the CPB, of course after the Chambers, is the most cited source. You could say it's the court supplier for the Millions Note. In this way, the economic perspective dominates the political debate. Then I am talking about the economy of the models and the calculator, not necessarily yours and mine. Earlier this year, fellow senators Sent and Ester in the NRC Handelsblad called for not only the CPB, but all planning agencies to publish their reflections on Prinsjesdag, so that the broader perspective can play a role in general political and financial considerations. In any case, I hope that our contribution today will bring this broader perspective to bear and I would like to reiterate the appeal of the two colleagues to the attention of the two directors.
