ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the members, in particular the members of the temporary committee, which I find to be men only. It's special if you're allowed to sit in "K." The committee's colleagues can sit there today, and probably again next week. I would also like to welcome the staff members who have assisted the committee. It concerns Mr Becker, Mr Van Haeften, Mrs Haveman, Mr Israel, Mr Hoekstra and Mrs Van Zeijts. We're discussing the report of this temporary committee today. That's always a special moment. It shall account for the work carried out, the conclusions it has drawn and the recommendations made. Today we keep the first term of the Chamber. The committee is expected to respond next week. I call Mrs Agnes Mulder from the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the committee on behalf of the CDA Group. It's always a lot of work. It is very nice that you can come out with such a good result. I would also like to thank the staff for this fine report. It contains a number of useful recommendations. Gross domestic product (GDP) is an omnipotent figure in public and political debate: how is your economy, even with you as a person? Many other issues, such as the EU contribution and the danger zone of 3%, have also been addressed. GDP alone does not measure how the country is doing, nor even how the economy is doing. It measures only the volume of market production. In politics, there is a need for figures that say more than this, namely figures that say something about broad prosperity. Broad prosperity is, the Committee notes, more than GDP alone. The committee assumes that broad prosperity covers all kinds of things that meet people's needs. This concerns material aspects, but also aspects such as education, sustainability, safety, health, the environment, the informal economy, and innovation. This is why, in addition to GDP, the Committee believes that more indicators are needed on the so-called dashboard in order to establish broad prosperity. In the world, there are more than 800 initiatives to achieve the broad welfare indicators, but none of them appear to be authoritative. This is due to cultural differences and differences in values that are behind them. GDP has been the uniform standard in almost the world for decades. An international standard is being developed, including by our own CBS. At the same time, countries with their broad welfare indicators are not in line with each other. For example, in Germany and France, parliamentary committees and government committees have been in the process for years, showing that there is no agreement. Unfortunately, it doesn't come out very much. The CDA Group welcomes the committee's recommendations to pursue this broad welfare indicator. The Committee recommends that the Monitor Brede Prosperity be published annually. The CDA Group wonders why the committee is enthusiastic about the OECD initiative of the Better Life Index. It's called. Then why was it chosen to develop the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor to the Broad Prosperity Monitor? We would like some more background information on this point. The CDA believes it is important that we join the international consensus and that the Netherlands might be able to play a leading role in this harmonisation. For example, in the field of development cooperation, our country is among the forerunners in the world. We also think it is important to establish a relationship with the Sustainable Development Goals or the global goals. The committee recommends that there should be a fixed time to discuss these matters with each other and opts for the debate on responsibility. The CDA Group wonders why, in the Committee's view, this is the best time to discuss this. Is that wide enough, too? After all, we are having this debate with the Minister of Finance and perhaps also with the Prime Minister, but when discussing the Sustainable Development Goals we may also need a coordinating minister. What is the opinion of the committee on this? The CDA does not like doing this on its own and therefore believes that we should join international movements. The Committee calls on the national statistical institutes and international organisations to give real shape to the recommendations on measuring sustainable development of the CES for the Acts and for the people who follow the debate at home: "CES" stands for "Conference for European Statisticians" "in the publications and instruments on broad prosperity." According to the CDA, we as a parliament only have something authoritative and can build it for the sake of international harmonisation. Once again, I would like to thank the committee very much for its extensive work. We are very curious about the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	Following the recommendation to pay particular attention to this in the debate on accountability with the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, Mrs Mulder asked the committee whether there should be a coordinating minister. I wonder what the CDA's answer to that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	Yesterday we had the debate with Mrs Ploumen, the Minister for Development Cooperation. She is coordinating minister for the Sustainable Development Goals or the world goals. We also have the climate targets. We know that, in any case, we will have to meet those targets towards 2030. Now we are mapping out exactly what those targets are, in which budgets you find them, how you think about them and what measures you need to take to achieve those targets towards 2030. Wide prosperity is not only prosperity for us, here in the Netherlands, but also for the poorest in the world. If you know that, the coordinating minister for development cooperation should also be asked, because this aspect also comes back in all these budgets. That's my way of thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	In itself, I follow that line of thinking, but I think it is precisely because the financial statements are now looking at how money is going to be spent and whether we have all spent it well, and that attention should also be paid to climate objectives, but also, for example, to aspects of care and education. It's about broad prosperity, so it's not just about the money side. GroenLinks, of course, also thinks the climate side is very important, but it is also about all kinds of social aspects. If you were to say that the Minister for Development and Cooperation should be included, so should the Minister for Social Affairs, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Education. I think the idea is right that we should address the Prime Minister, the Minister of General Affairs. The committee will have to state this later, but I think that is what the committee means by recommending that this be discussed in the debate on responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u6	Yeah, that's right. That's how I read it. I recognize that, but at the same time we see that these Sustainable Development Goals are going to be an important part of our different budgets. I simply wonder how the committee has thought about this and whether it sees a role for the coordinating minister on that point, without me saying here today that it must and will do so. I'm just curious how the committee weighed this. Thank you for the fact that in this way extra attention can be generated for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u7	I am pleased to hear that the CDA wants the government to take the measure of more than just economic growth. The Christian Union can only wholeheartedly support this. I wonder if the CDA also dares to take the measure itself and has the courage to pass on its own plans over several axes. Does she dare to assume that responsibility as a political party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr Bruins chooses the words 'take the measure'. We are talking about a broader debate than just the figures. Then you have to look at how those numbers are connected and what they're saying. For example, in the CPB transfer of election programmes, little attention is paid to innovation. I have mentioned this in my contribution one of the important points. That is a shortcoming of such a model. Then you can ask the question whether you should use that model that way. We are still faced with this question, but it will undoubtedly be answered in the run-up to the elections. When you say that you want to look at it in conjunction, you also have to look at the effects of it. I have noticed that there are always subjective aspects to this, but you do want to have a sound good story of which all aspects are correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u9	Do I have the right to point out to Mrs Mulder that the idea of allowing electoral programmes, for example, to be carried out more broadly than only by the CPB is a positive fundamental point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u10	I certainly do not rule that out at the moment, but you have to be able to see that coherence and it must have added value. Otherwise, it will be a paperwork that we will not be able to go any further and perhaps even get bogged down in. That cannot be the intention given the goals we set ourselves and want to achieve for our beautiful country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u11	I too am very pleased with the suggestion of the temporary committee to look more broadly at the concept of prosperity once a year. I share that with Mrs Mulder, but I do wonder why this should be done in the context of the debate on accountability. She suggests that we have a coordinating minister. Does she agree with me that it makes much more sense to discuss this during the General Political Reviews? We can therefore look at the impact of policies in the areas of sustainability, care and education. Would that be the right time to debate with the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u12	I like the fact that day of accountability offers the opportunity to see how far you are and whether you still have an influence on the budgets that are coming. That is why I am charmed by the committee's suggestion that the matter should be included in the debate on a day of accountability. Then you can make other choices for the budgetary treatment. The CDA thinks it's important that you get a good look at it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u13	It is precisely if you want to make other choices for the budgets that you could further develop these indicators during the autumn budget discussions, i.e. after the general political reflections. Does Mrs Mulder agree with me that it is important not only to take macro-economic explorations as a guide during general political reflections and budgets, but also to take the broad pallet of welfare indicators with a view to getting a good idea of the significance of government policy for sustainability, care and education? Otherwise, we will know it every time afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u14	I can follow Mrs Thieme's line. We have to start somewhere. Let us begin with accountability and then we can take the step towards budgetary treatment. It is, of course, a growth process, because these indicators have not yet been fully established either. The question is which way we want to go with it. The sustainable development goals are still under development. Can you bring a footprint or not? Are there sufficient objective figures available for this? This is all under development and we will take these steps in the years to come. I certainly do not exclude that the broad concept of prosperity will become established in the future and that you will see it again when dealing with budgets. However, you have to start somewhere and I think this is a very logical place. The Sustainable Netherlands Monitor is then further developed. Let us start with that, then, is my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. "Two thirds of the goods now shipped via the Suez Canal can be transported more quickly in the long term via the Northern Sea Route along the northern coast of Siberia. It accounts for 8% of total world trade in goods. That's in a calculation from the Central Planning Bureau. It saves a third in both distance and time. For the Netherlands, trade with Northeast Asia would increase by more than 10% as a result of the new route, says the Central Planning Bureau. Gross domestic product would increase by almost 0.2%." This is a quote from my colleague Jesse Klaver's book. He quotes a message from the NOS with the bizarre title "Canses for the Netherlands by melting Arctic ice cream." It shows how the emphasis is placed on economic growth, without taking into account the negative effects that the melting of Arctic ice causes for nature, animals and humans. This isn't on its own. Because gross domestic product only shows what all goods and services are added together, growth in gross domestic product is not always good at all. For example, car accidents are good for gross domestic product, and thus good for the economy. In the event of a natural disaster, gross domestic product increases as a result of expenditure on repair work. War is good for economic growth, because it causes production and damage, and thus a demand for production again. Just from the bnp's point of view, all these things would therefore be desirable. That is the absurd conclusion if we are merely putting the growth of gross domestic product at the forefront. And that's what economics does. Economic growth rates do not say anything about welfare, social relations or sustainability. What does that gross domestic product actually say? Do we know how wealth is divided, how sustainable that prosperity is, how much damage our prosperity is doing elsewhere and how much well-being it brings? No. In calculating gross domestic product, prosperity is equal to the sum of all goods and services produced in our country. That's all it is. The founder of the forerunner of gross domestic product, Simon Kuznets, said it himself: what I'm measuring doesn't correspond to prosperity. But in our daily use we strive for the growth of gross domestic product and the gross domestic product is used as the indicator that shows how well things are with the Netherlands. For GroenLinks, prosperity is quite different from economic growth. For us prosperity is about how society is doing, with us as inhabitants of the Netherlands. It is about equality, health, education and, not least, nature and the environment. It is about protecting the dunes from entrepreneurs who want to make a living from that nature. Prosperity is about values that cannot always be expressed in money; values that we all cherish as people and that we know are important. So we need to make a better weighting of what we think is important. Not only the hardest euros count, but everything that is of value. Gross domestic product and economic growth are now too leading in political decisions. That's wrong. The melting of the Arctic ice has no price of itself, but as a result of that a lot of value is lost. We should take that into account. We also need to think about what developments and policies mean for the well-being of people, for social relations, for voluntary policies, for nature, and for the accessibility of education. If we want the future to be more closely involved in our current decisions, we need to make the trade-out between the short and long term clear. That is why the previous group chairman of GroenLinks, Bram van Ojik, and his colleague from D66 have tabled a motion for the establishment of this temporary committee Breed welfare concept. We are discussing the outcome today. The Temporary Committee on Wide Prosperity has examined whether and how we can apply a broader concept of prosperity. The committee has examined whether we can use more indicators than gross domestic product and how the Court could use these instruments. GroenLinks welcomes this report and welcomes the recognition of the broad values in life with this report. We see this as a turning point. Finally, we're gonna take a broader look. As representatives of the people and inspectors of the government, we should not just look at what is meant by economic capital. We must also look at human capital, socio-cultural capital and, of course, at ecological capital. That's what the conversation in the Chamber should be about. It must be a broad discussion, not just about finance, but about all aspects that are important to the people of this country. The Committee concludes that a lot of information is already available and that there should be a Monitor Brede Prosperity. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, that monitor will be there as soon as possible. Making invisible what the effects are because of the wide prosperity is one. It is now about how we can use this knowledge for policy and political choices. GroenLinks therefore embraces the committee's recommendation to discuss the monitor annually during the accountability debate. The committee rightly concludes that there should be a reaction of the cabinet to this monitor broad prosperity. A next step would be to use the results of the monitor's wide prosperity also in subsequent policies. GroenLinks therefore wants the cabinet to indicate in its annual response to the monitor how the conclusions are involved in future policies. That will then be part of the debate on accountability. Does the committee share this view? In addition, the monitor should also be involved in Prinsjesdag. GroenLinks would like to see the Millions Note indicate how the results of the monitor have been placed in the government's policy and the annual Millions Note. Then the monitor gives broad prosperity not only insight into the state of the country, but also really work on prosperity in the broad sense. The next, and ultimate step, would of course be that we can also pass on policy ideas to other things than gross domestic product. Of course, there are already nice international examples of monitors trying to take this in one number, so that countries can compare. Look at the World Happiness Report, or the United Nations Human Development Index. GroenLinks is not in favour of going to one new, comprehensive measure of broad prosperity. After all, the question remains what you weigh how heavy you are. In doing so, for example, our party's environment weighs a lot more heavily than other parties in this Chamber might do. So we should not again make the mistake of trying to put everything back into one absolute number. GroenLinks is in favour of keeping different indicators side by side. Then people and political parties can themselves consider which indicator is important to them. We can't do that yet, but who knows what the future will bring. The temporary committee Breed welfare concept has done a good job. On behalf of my group, I congratulate all the members of this committee. We hope that this report will be a turning point, which will also give us a broader vision of prosperity in this house and not just stare blindly at the growth of gross domestic product. The broad concept of prosperity must now also take shape in policy making. There is more to life than economic growth and the ability to buy stuff. There's more to life than money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u16	I understand that Mr Verhoeven wishes to speak later. Mr Bruins has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. The indicators you want to measure your country's success are indicators of what you think is important. We've already heard. So it starts with a vision and then you know what you want to send. My message for today is: that does not have to be a shared vision, just not. That is why I would like to turn today's debate to: let us not wait for international harmonisation, precisely not. If, as Mr Voortman said, we actually develop several indicators, then the differences in weighting make visible precisely the differences between the parties and between the different conceptions of life and different societal visions. For example, I can imagine that the SP wants to push the button of the indicator that says something about income differences in this country, because a country where income differences are not too large is a country where happiness is generally experienced. For example, I can imagine that the VVD wants to turn the button on the indicator that shows how easily entrepreneurs can start their business, because people who have ambition and freedom to make their dreams come true make a country happy. I can also imagine that Christian parties, such as CDA, SGP or Christian Union, want to turn the button of local community spirit. Do you feel safe where you live? Do you feel seen? Are you moving into a community of values with like-minded people? Depending on the society you advocate, you can choose to turn one button higher than the other. I therefore urge that we not wait for international harmonisation but get to work. As Mr Voortman said, we should not pursue a single number. We can learn from Bhutan after all. That country is briefly mentioned in the committee's replies. Bhutan controls 33 factors. They don't add them up, they just look at the 33. They all think they're important, but some are more important than others. I can easily imagine that we in this country can agree on 30 indicators, where we make one more important than the other, but with which we can work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u18	When you read the report and the answers to the questions, the committee pleads for a dashboard and also pleads for a start immediately. However, the Christian Union's plea now gives the impression that there are parties in this Chamber and perhaps also in the committee, who do not want to start immediately or argue for such a dashboard. Did I read the same report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u19	I refer to the answers to the questions. I do not have the number of the question ready, but it says somewhere on two thirds that there are all kinds of things that cannot be done because there is no international harmonisation. I am in favour of not waiting for this international harmonisation but for us to make our own choices. I may have misunderstood that, but I would also like to hear it in the committee's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u20	I have also studied these answers very carefully and what emerges from them is that because of all kinds of cultural differences, especially in Bhutan where there are many religious aspects and where religion may be a little different than here, you come to other indicators. I can imagine you can't copy that one-on-one to our country. That's how I read the committee's answers. In my view, however, this committee clearly advocates a dashboard of indicators. That leaves of course all the space to do the things that we in the Netherlands think are important and at the same time to find out how to strive for international comparison. In this way we can also learn from other countries, which will make our country better with our well-being. How does the Christian Union view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u21	I also read the conclusion that we cannot simply accept Bhutan's indicators. I think we can say that we can learn a lot from Bhutan, precisely about the factor of religion that is being taken there. In Bhutan, there are actually indicators at three levels, namely at national level, at a personal level and between them at the level of the community, the level of the community. The latter is about how generous people are, how they experience the sense of community, how much participation in culture there is. There is also something called "driglam namzha"; we would call it "citizenship." Of course, there is another religion there; driglam namzha is something other than what we mean by citizenship. But we can certainly learn from these 33 indicators and translate them into the Dutch situation. I'm sure the extent to which you believe anything can be a button. There are also studies that show that people who believe in something are generally just a bit happier than people who don't believe in anything. The Christian parties can turn that button a little higher. And with D66, the neoliberal party where one really wants to abolish all the expressions of religion in the public domain, one can then set that button to zero when that party enters the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u22	All right, Mr Bruins is continuing his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u23	The Christian Union welcomes the conclusions of the Temporary Commission on Wide Prosperity, because prosperity is now defined far too narrowly. Economic growth is not the most important, but a valuable society, the Christian Union believes. The problem is that we do not see the value of good care, the best education for our children, the reception of refugees and clean energy in the figures. This has a major impact on choices in the budget. We must therefore move towards a situation where GDP becomes one of the weighting factors, not the weighting factor as it is today. Roel Kuiper's committee found that in the 1980s market belief led to unbridled privatisation. The argument was also that privatisation would lead to greater efficiency and innovation, which would ultimately be better for citizens. That turned out to be a myth and a cover for a neoliberal austerity operation. Market forces, efficiency and competition were often not in favour of citizens. In fact, sometimes things went sideways. Look at the railways in the nineties and at the beginning of this century. Look at the near bankruptcy of KPN. But the business and cold approach of citizens as consumers also plays a role in this. Kuiper therefore advocates the return of the public interest. I plead with him for that. The Committee calls GDP a robust indicator for measuring the size of the economy. Is that right? Is it a robust indicator? Is GDP robust because of its comparability, or is it also a robust indicator of substance? My view is that GDP is robust in terms of comparability, but not in terms of content. I refer, for example, to the comments of the WRR. It also shows the shortcomings in the substance of GDP. I quote: "It is important that the concept of GDP is increasingly less and less suited to the structure of the modern economy. For example, determining GDP is a bad reflection of what the modern ICT revolution has resulted in, because many electronic assets cannot be linked to a good price. I would like to say that, in fact, this applies to all know-how which cannot be expressed in money. Patenting is becoming less and more widespread and investment in know-how is increasing. So we have more and more capital that we can't actually express in money. But the criticism of GDP is broader, as the committee also notes. The WRR also writes that societies differ widely in the extent to which activities are measured. Think of domestic activities or volunteering. The latter is also present to an important extent in the Netherlands, but it does not occur in all numbers. How can you dissect that? Banks have been in GDP since the mid-1990s. That is perhaps the biggest mistake of economists in the last century. They do not create real economic added value. Banks only shift money, usually from poor to rich. Since then, GDP has increased mainly by increasing debt. The real economy has hardly grown. Banks need to get out of GDP so that only the real economy counts. Interestingly, many companies measure a bit more widely, and are therefore actually a precursor of the government. In 2009, the Stiglitz Commission already advised to look more at well-being, health, education, social relations and the environment. This committee also came up with the capital approach, as Mrs Voortman said. That committee talks about economic capital, human capital, natural capital and social capital. We already see companies like Unilever, DSM and Mars measuring and directing on these broader capitals. In Oxford, there is even an interesting research programme in collaboration with Mars to rely on the economics of mutuality models based on reciprocity. Should we not use the idea of a broader measurement of prosperity and profitability much more in business and support such research programmes that make this visible and demonstrable? I come to a few concrete things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u24	Before you proceed, Mrs Thieme has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u25	I'm very excited about the story, so I don't want to take anything away from it, but I'd like to take a step down when it comes to natural capital. There was a jungle in Costa Rica that was estimated to be worth a few tons of euros, because there was a bee people living there and there was a coffee plantation. The coffee prices fell, the coffee plantation disappeared and instead came a pineapple plantation. Pineapples do not need bees, so the value of the jungle was suddenly zero euros. I think it's a dangerous trend to capitalize nature, to add a sum of money to it, because then you're going to get these kinds of fluctuations. Does Mr Bruins agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u26	I agree with Mrs Thieme that this is very difficult and that you should be careful. These are indeed effects you do not want. That is why I call for more research to be carried out on this and also for research programmes to be started on the possible pitfalls. Mrs Thieme is now setting a very good example. Not all the green is the same green. Other green does something with the surroundings again. There are indeed risks of capitalization. There is a danger that your "to use" Mr. Klaver's words might fall into some kind of new economics. At the same time, I am realistic enough to know that policy is determined by numbers. If we can quantify something in a good and safe way, taking into account such cases, to give policy a positive spin, I would argue for that. But we do have to agree well with each other what we mean by valuable before we start linking numbers to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u27	In my view, therefore, Mr Bruins believes that nature has an inherent value, regardless of its usefulness to man? We need to shift the focus that everything that is useful to man has a certain value, so we need to look much more planet-wide, focusing not on man but on the whole planet. I would like to share that with you in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you. Everything of value is defenseless, but maybe we can quantify it a little bit. I will continue my speech. The Christian Union considers the proposal to have the CBS set up a Monitor Brede Prosperity, a good step, but the application is really too limited. As long as the Macro Economic Recognition of the CPB continues to play the dominant role in the Millions Note, little will change. Other colleagues have already said that. So we should use the monitor not only when looking back, but also when looking forward. Just when you're making policy and setting the budget, you have to look at it widely. What is the impact on society? The Christian Union, like GroenLinks, wants to use the Monitor Brede Welvaart not only in the Responsible debate but also in Prinsjesdag. In this way, we can look much wider in the budgetary treatment than just at economic growth on the basis of a dashboard. The Millions note also needs to account for the impact on broad prosperity. The Court should be able to decide on this on the basis of comprehensive information. I refer to the motion by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Tongeren, which has been held on a Macro-Economic Recognition plus, which is also based on the dashboard approach. We wish to put this motion to the vote. I would like to hear a reaction from the committee. If we want to look more broadly at impacts in the General Financial Reviews and the budgetary treatment, then it is also important to have all current monitors and explorations available. But precisely an important monitor of the SCP, The social state of the Netherlands, will not be released until December. That is too late for the important decision-making. Should we not plan the publication of important monitors for important decision-making moments and, among other things, get the social state of the Netherlands in August or September? Let's synchronize those reports. The Christian Union would also find it interesting to measure the wide prosperity by region or province. For example, we know that a region such as North-East Groningen is suffering from earthquakes and soil decline, but also unemployment, shrinkage, and falling house prices. That is a very different situation from, for example, in Amsterdam. We must be able to take account of regional differences when dealing with budgets. What about the well-being and living environment in certain provinces? Does the committee agree that we should be able and willing to measure more widely by region? Finally, we believe that political parties should also look at themselves. The election programmes are in full development. What is the impact on society, the climate, social relations, security? Are we gonna go through with that, too? I would like to put that question to the other parties in the Chamber. Are they, like the Christian Union, prepared to extend the electoral programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u29	We accept that last challenge. I listened with great agreement to Mr Bruins' speech. I recognized a great deal of what I also mentioned. I was wondering what the Christian Union now expects of the cabinet. The cabinet's gonna write another comment. Does the Christian Union also think it would be good if the government responded in this way to how the conclusions of such a Monitor Brede Prosperity could be involved in future policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u30	Full-bodied, yes. We believe that we should look forward to this, not only on a day of accountability, future policies and plans for the future, on all aspects, on environmental aspects, on the impact on social cohesion, as far as possible. I challenge the other planning agencies in this respect to use and make available their instruments. I call on the government to create space for this in the planning agencies. Then we may be able to get more credit, so that what is also of value outside GDP can be seen for our election programmes and the government's plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u31	That's interesting. I believe that you should not only look at the current position, but also at how you can use it for future policy. That's where we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u32	Totally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins said in his fine contribution that D66 would put the buttons on faith in certain things to nothing. That's not entirely true, for D66, for example, would be the button to have the freedom to be yourself, to think about things for yourself, to open up tolerance to other people and other people. Mr Bruins was right when he said that different things were important to each party. It is therefore a good thing that this committee has been able to do its job. I also think that there are a number of buttons that each party would like to turn on. This is also reflected in the report. There are a number of indicators that are always reflected in all measurements on a broader concept of prosperity. When a contractor builds a house this month, the Dutch economy grows. Everyone understands that. If that house is demolished next month, the Dutch economy will grow even harder. If the house is then rebuilt, then there is even more growth. You get that crazy effect when the gross domestic product is synonymous with growth. GDP also increases when more gas is pumped up in Groningen. Is that good for our prosperity? No, the Groningen think, and rightly so. However, growth is important. Growth is necessary to pay for our education. Growth is necessary to finance our care and pensions. Growth is needed to improve purchasing power, so that people improve on it. Above all, growth gives people, individuals, the space to make choices, pursue their dreams and live up to their ambitions. However, this growth does not necessarily mean higher GDP. Growth that exhausts the earth, growth that creates bubbles, growth that increases inequality between people, is not sustainable growth. That is why D66 has always said that real growth must add value. Real growth shouldn't be fake growth either, based on financial constructions that a small group of people earns a lot in a short period of time and which later turn out to lose a very large group of people very hard. Real growth is also not a growth that demolishes the earth in a way that makes subsequent generations not equally pleasant, equally good, equally long and equally comfortable to live on that earth. In the long term, of course, we have no use for that kind of growth, which is disruptive. It is therefore a good thing that the temporary committee on the broad concept of prosperity, which is sitting here in box K, has bowed down after the Van Ojik/Pechtold motion, I might add, very expertly and very well considered a broader, other way of measuring our prosperity. I thank the committee for the work. There is a thorough report; a readable study. The committee has made it clear which methods are already available. The committee has made useful recommendations to increase the political effectiveness of the issues that are already there. That has been very useful work. The most striking recommendation is the annual wide welfare monitor on Accountability Day. That annual monitor at a fixed time seems to my group to be a very good idea, but I would ask the committee why it is linking this to Accountability Day, and hence the Accountability debate. I think others have already asked this. Isn't the monitor snowing down on Accountability Day, given the huge amount of accountability we're supposed to take? Doesn't broad prosperity just deserve its own annual debate? If, after all, the committee and the majority of this Chamber are driving a combination with an already existing debate, is it not better to deal with the broad welfare monitor during Princesday and the General Political Reviews? I think that is something others have said before. I say it myself, because this is the moment in the political year when political policy and the budget for the coming year are being adjusted. That might also be the best time to put on the broad welfare glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u34	I understand Mr Verhoeven's question on his own: shouldn't you have a very separate debate about the Monitor Brede Prosperity? On the other hand, I think that the moment you do it in the Accountability debate, you will also make sure that you also look more broadly in accountability and not only at the financial side, but also at all the other aspects of prosperity. I would like to know from Mr Verhoeven how he looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u35	I think that as a political party in every debate, you are responsible for the way in which you contribute, what you involve and how you look at the matter. Each political party already has the opportunity in any debate to look at prosperity in a broader way. Mrs Voortman, for example, is a spokesperson for care, if I am not mistaken. It can look at this subject in a different way in any care debate than, for example, the VVD might do. In any debate, there is already the possibility of using the perspective of broad prosperity. I think the nice thing about a separate debate is that you will all be forced to look at the state of the country in this way. Then much more is being discussed in this way about the issues that then lie ahead, rather than everyone doing so in their own way during the Accountability debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u36	You could also say that we want to change the debate on accountability. If we want it not only to be about the financial side of the matter, it is right to broaden the debate and look at broad prosperity. That might as well put you against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u37	I do not want to sound uninterested, but I think that the technique, the structure and the moments of debate on which we are dealing with this matter are less important than we are dealing with it. I would like to take a good look at any proposal to bring this issue, in whatever form, to the House of Representatives in a good way. What I fear is that parties who consider this to be less important will let it snow in the Accountability debate, because they want to bring other points out of high piles of paper. Perhaps a separate debate is a catalyst that forces us all to look at the matter in this way. The establishment of a separate committee for this purpose has also had this catalyzing effect. We have not added this issue to an existing chamber committee. Excuse me, Mr President, if I am long-winded, but I am very enthusiastic about this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u38	I would like to move on to what Mrs Voortman's interrupting debate was about. Isn't it a great danger that if you have a separate debate on this, you're just going to philosophize with each other about what prosperity is according to the different parties? What we really want is to test and adjust government policy, because it needs to be linked much more to the policy objectives and to the future effects of policy on, for example, sustainability, care, education and that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u39	I think you want both. In the past, a long time ago, the debates at the General Political Reviews were much more philosopheric and wider in nature than they are today. A lot of people look back at that with a lot of desire. You used to hear a very nice, half-hour contribution from group chairmen, who put their world view in a certain way. That's happening less and less. So that political parties are philosophizing each other about a way you should look at the world, I think is very good. For example, I am very curious about what Mrs Thieme is going to say on this subject. In addition, what Mrs Thieme says is absolutely true: you want to keep a close eye on government policy on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u40	Sure. That seems to me to be a good thing, even if the question arises when. Precisely in the General Political Reviews, a debate in which Macro Economic Recognitions are leading, such a dashboard with broad welfare indicators could be an additional pallet to actually deepen that debate. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u41	I agree largely with Mrs Thieme, but I would like to say once again that I want to ensure that there is a structural solution in this Chamber. We always tend to choose a structural solution in this House of Representatives, in the vein of: we have a committee, we have an annual debate, we have a monitor, we have solved. It often doesn't work that way. On the contrary, I would like to call on all parties to choose the broad concept of prosperity as one of the points of view in the many debates we have with each other. Then we'll really have a better world, Mr. Chairman. I need a little more time than I said, but not much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u42	I hear you say not much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u43	A minute perhaps, with my apology for that. I would like to say one more thing about one point that I am missing. The Committee is very consciously recommending that no new indicators should be developed, but that they should be consistent with existing international developments. However, I would like to see whether the current indicators say enough about future prosperity. I know that the committee has philosophized about elsewhere and later, but the indicators seem to be somewhat twentieth-century. Information on, for example, technology is lacking, while technology is a factor that can lead to great prosperity increases and changes, provided that we are not afraid of technology. For example, the PvdA is still suffering from robotic anxiety and GroenLinks would like to work with a robotic load. Apart from these proposals, if we embrace technological progress and dare to choose the opportunities that technology has to offer, we must also ensure that benefits are better shared. In addition, it would be useful to increase the involvement of technology and technological progress indicators in the monitor. I would like to put to the committee whether it would be an idea to have a little more eye for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mrs. Voortman, briefly, because it will be your fourth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u45	Because I'm being addressed here, it's necessary. GroenLinks' proposal for a robot dividend was about putting the benefits of robotisation into practice for others as well. It is not just about companies, it is also about employees. If we are talking about a broad concept of prosperity, it would be a good thing for a party like D66 to look at it as well. It is not just about economic benefits, but also about benefits that others can have. That's what the proposal was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u46	I fully agree with Mrs Voortman. That is why I also said that we need to embrace technological progress, but we also need to distribute the benefits of technology much better. What I'm afraid of is that first we're going to tax everything that tends to GroenLinks so that earning doesn't happen at all, after which the distribution also gets much tighter. I thought that a robotic load by GroenLinks went a little too far, but in the better distribution of the benefits of robotisation we are very much in favour of each other, albeit not through a tax. I may have misunderstood GroenLinks' plan, but I think Mrs Voortman's explanation is very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u47	If you tax labour by people, why not share the proceeds of robotization with those same people? That was the idea of the tax. I am glad that Mr Verhoeven now understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u48	Now I'm not too happy, because you just said it was a dividend, whereas you think it's a tax again. I just don't want that tax. I don't want us to tax robots, because then we're going to make the technological side of robots and other forms of automation more expensive than necessary. That would make less money for the people who could benefit from it. We need to take another look at these plans through the glasses of broad prosperity. There are already indicators for broad prosperity, including in the field of technology. For example, the number of Internet connections, the number of YouTube videos downloaded, the number of patents applied for and the number of start-ups. Such indicators can be valuable information for future prosperity. I therefore ask the committee how they can give it a place. That monitor will be there. That is very good, but ultimately, of course, it is about politicians not staring blindly at economic growth, at gross domestic product and at the economic aspects of the CPB. Politics is about people and not about numbers. I really hope that this report, which is the good work of this committee and the integrated way of working that all parties will apply in all debates, will contribute to a better realization of the fact that politics is about people and not about numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr Bruins has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u50	Would D66 be willing to pass on their own plans, for example by the Planning Office for the Environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u51	That's a bit of a scary question, because one of my party's financial watchdogs happens to be listening in this business. So a little gratuitous can't be answered right now. But I dare make that promise, Mr Bruins. We are certainly prepared to have our plans calculated more broadly than just by the CPB. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u53	The committee's listening today. That's a lot for MPs! I see Mr Grashoff nodding: he can only listen today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the committee and, in particular, the staff for the research that has been carried out. It is a clear and clear report. The large number of sources consulted shows that a lot of work has been put into this. But all this work was completely superfluous in relation to the PVV. In fact, it is an insult to one's own population, because it seeks to determine what prosperity is for every Dutchman. According to this committee, prosperity is much more than the ability to meet one's own needs. For example, account should also be taken of the impact of our domestic consumption on forest logging elsewhere or the impact on food supplies elsewhere, or the response to climate change or the energy consumption of our transport or the election turnout or the self-reported victimisation or the biodiversity impression and, of course, the feeling of discrimination. If you submit this list to the ordinary people on the street, nine out of ten people will label it madness. Where did this come from, I wondered when reading the report. Have the committee members been at the top of Maslow's need pyramid for so long that they really think that this is decisive for how ordinary Dutch people experience prosperity? Do they really think that any nurse, agent or street maker would consider it important to take account of such matters? Would it not be of primary importance to them what they have left per month to meet the needs of their own family? What these needs are next to food, health and a roof over your head, is something personal. One doesn't need a government to determine that. So why do you think this should happen, so I ask the committee. What political importance is involved in replacing objective concepts, such as gross national product, with a subjective left ideal image? I believe that there are other intentions behind this, namely to cover up the damage they themselves have caused to our prosperity by the policy of years of austerity. Indeed, figures can show that the number of unemployed is barely falling and that the number of long-term unemployed is even historically high, or that, if you do work, you have to give up 57.5% of your income on taxes and contributions, or that as a retired person you have been turning in purchasing power for eight years. But what difference does it make if the carbon footprint has only decreased or the quality of surface water has only increased, because according to this committee this must also be taken into account as prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u55	I see there are questions. First of all, Mr Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u56	I hear this story with amazement. I understand that we have to go all the way back to GDP as a measure and that incomes should be as high as possible. But the PVV will also recognise that things like health, safety and well-being are indeed affected by the policies we conduct. You can appreciate that, can't you? When I hear the PVV like that, apparently those cases don't matter anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u57	Of course, health and safety are important, but if you want to realize it, you have to ask yourself how we're going to pay for it. In order to pay for that, you need to have a gross domestic product and see which part of that gross domestic product you want to use for our security, our care, our education and so on. That is precisely a political balance. Everyone, every political party makes their own choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u58	The PVV makes a caricature of the Committee's speech. Of course, the money for health has to come from the tax revenues. But with such a broad index it is measured how well health, education and safety are doing, for example. Those are sensible measurements, aren't they? You can't just serve it this way, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u59	It is precisely the ideas on health, education and that sort of thing that are reflected in election programmes of political parties that are reflected in debates. It always comes back to the question of how we're going to pay for it. For that you need growth and for that you need a gross domestic product. However, this committee proposes that the turnout in elections or the biodiversity footprint should be regarded as prosperity. Then I think: that's all nice and nice, but the average Dutchman is more concerned about how he can pay the high bill for the care premium, the own risk and the high rent than he is worried about the forests in Costa Rica.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u60	Perhaps Mrs Klever is not concerned about the forests in Costa Rica, but there are many people who are concerned about that. There are also people who are concerned about how the community is doing and about all kinds of immaterial things. Those are things that aren't in that gross domestic product. This committee is proposing a broader view. That's the whole idea. I really do not see why Mrs Klever has such a problem with that. A lot of people want us to look beyond just money. The PVV isn't just about money, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u61	It's everyone's right to look beyond money. But who are we to determine for the people of the land what they are looking at, except that they should be able to pay their bills, their roofs over their heads and their food? The Green Left picker may be worried about the forests in Costa Rica. That's their right. Then they choose GroenLinks and go there a bit of our prosperity. The PVV voter has other concerns. He's worried about paying his bills. If you step away from an objectively measurable concept, such as gross domestic product, and include all kinds of subjective concepts, then the average citizen will soon read that prosperity has increased, while gross domestic product may not have risen at all, but all those subjective concepts, which you all consider so important, may have just improved slightly. Then I say, let us stick to objectively measurable concepts. That's gross domestic product. Leave all these subjective things to the electoral programmes and let the politicians make the weightings. But please, let's keep those things out of all the reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mrs. Klever, would you like to speak through the chairman from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u63	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u64	You have a difference of opinion with Mrs. Voortman. You may, but you speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u65	There's no one who's forcing people to look at anything. However, we can conclude that the gross domestic product is only a very limited part. I have just given a number of examples myself. The moment war breaks out, gross domestic product rises. That's a very strange reasoning, isn't it? Prosperity is about much more than money, isn't it? I am sorry that the PVV, which I thought was looking a little further, does not have an eye for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u66	It is not for nothing that all economists throughout the world have identified gross domestic product as an objective measure of prosperity. That's the only objective thing. Everything else is subjective. That's all fine. If that's what your constituents think, they'll vote for your party. If my constituents don't agree, they'll vote for my party. I say that through the chairman to Mrs Voortman. In short, the truth is masked. Under the guise of sustainability and other left-wing hobbies, paper reality is presented a little more colourful. We often see that reflex from the left. For example, a motion by the PvdA and the SP has recently been adopted to remove the concept of "allochtoon" from policy documents because this would have a negative connotation. But fortunately the Dutchman is not crazy. For the average nurse or agent who works 40 hours a week and sees more and more of his tax dollars lost, nothing changes the concept of "welfare," because such a person simply looks at what he is left with a month in his wallet for free use. The PVV therefore does not see anything to broaden the term "welfare." So don't let the CBS deal with this nonsense. Let the CBS confine itself to calculating objective figures, such as calculating purchasing power figures. I would advise the members of the committee to get a little more out of this Haagse cheese stall to see what is really going on with our prosperity. Perhaps they will come to the understanding that, thanks to their left-wing ideals, prosperity has been declining for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr. Chairman. And now there's a whole different channel. Gross domestic product consists of the result of economic activities. It has already been said that economic activities are also being taken into account, which in themselves do not make a positive contribution to well-being at all. Think of road accidents, air pollution, animal suffering, animal diseases crises and the complete burning of forests in power plants. Even these things contribute to GDP. Fortunately, we will not be out of it, at least not for long. Why are we caught up in economic figures that say nothing about the strength of our community spirit, caring for each other, caring for the vulnerable or the opportunities to develop your talents? Why do we want to measure everything or express it in money, except for what makes life really worthwhile? Robert Kennedy's 1968 speech, in which he advocated developing indicators for the state of the economy, is more topical than ever. We cling to 2% economic growth as an indicator of the state of the Dutch economy. We're experiencing a level of prosperity our grandparents couldn't even dream of. At the same time, however, we feel that there is a serious dilemma: we need to grow to maintain economic stability, because shrinking means boosting unemployment, falling house prices, shaky financial institutions and political instability. The European Central Bank therefore prints monthly notes with a value of EUR 80 billion in order to feel the illusion of prosperity recovery. At the same time, however, we know that permanent growth is an impossible scenario in the case of a rapidly growing world population on a planet that does not grow. It is high time to realise that nature, environment and happiness are not like money, and that we urgently need other indicators for our policies. We therefore thank the members of the Temporary Committee on Wide Prosperity for their search for indicators that can help to define our prosperity more broadly. Responsible policies, by definition, remain within the capacity of the earth. And that definition is now violent: we consume as if we have several orbs at our disposal, at the expense of other earthlings and future generations. Our love for growth is actually that for money is blinding us to the fact that we live on a planet with rapidly declining soil and nutrients. The financial deficit in our country is about 3% per year, while our environmental deficit is more than 30%. Every year we consume more than 30% too much in raw materials such as water and wood. So we use more than that that Earth can provide annually. Every year we run out of raw materials. They also have an indicator under the name Earth Overshoot Day. It fell in 1980 on December 14th. Then we made up everything that the Earth can produce every year. This year Earth Overshoot Day has already moved to August 8th. So the last four and a half months of this year we actually live on the puff, we use raw materials that cannot be replenished at the rate we use them. The review of the indicators of this temporary committee is very valuable to start with a different way of life. It is also important to ask the Cabinet to reflect on this and to make a request to the Planning Offices to take a broader look at the policy. Finally, attention is paid to the limitations of GDP and to the need to develop policies for human, animal, nature and the environment. The Sustainable Netherlands Monitor and the Balance of the Environment already map many effects on this size, raw materials and biodiversity. They are effects caused by Dutch policy, Dutch production, Dutch trade and, of course, by our consumption. But these monitors are not directly related to policy decisions and they are also not exploring future impacts of policy, production and consumption. In short, they are not yet fully-fledged indicators to really test the policy. Many policy makers and politicians look at the Macro Economic Recognitions and are trapped in one-sided economic logic. The question of what we can afford is answered by the state finances rather than by what is morally and ecologically acceptable. So we need indicators that focus on intangible value, well-being, indicators for levels of education, quality of health care, the impact society has on animals and on the environment and nature. There is much to be said for the dashboard of indicators of economic development, which this temporary committee is talking about. For example, we force ourselves to come up with a long-term vision of what policies are trying to achieve in terms of prosperity and well-being. The policy must be able to be assessed in advance. That's hardly possible right now. The Committee recommends having an annual debate on the impact of government policy on our broad prosperity. That is what the Animal Party wholeheartedly supports, but why does the Committee believe that we should only do so in the debate on responsibility? The consequence is that the Millions' Note, the General Political Reviews and budgetary policy remain focused on GDP. Indicators of broad prosperity should play a leading role in these debates. GDP is at most supportive. Isn't this how the committee honours GDP as the most important indicator? Or do I misunderstand that? At present, labour taxation is the largest source of revenue for the government. The tax on labour is very expensive. So it's not surprising that a lot of people are unemployed at home. It is completely illogical to tax what we have in abundance, labour, and to make what is scarce and of which we have very little as cheap as possible. As early as 1994, Eckart Wintzen proposed not to burden people's good behavior, but the bad behavior. That's what he called "tax-deprecated value." Recently, the organisation Ex'tax, together with the four major consultancy firms in our country, calculated that shifting from 33 billion euros from payroll taxes to taxes on raw materials and pollution, mainly CO, can be budget-neutral and that this can not only potentially create 650,000 jobs, but can also make climate goals feasible in one blow. We must say goodbye to the sacred paradigm that economic growth is a solution. Instead, we must recognise that growth is appropriate for young people and no longer necessary in an adult society. We've grown. Instead, let us move towards a green, sustainable society. That is to say, a society that can be sustained, including for future generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mrs Thieme and I have talked about this before. I think we are closer to each other on this point than we sometimes think, but Mrs Thieme is saying again that economic growth is not good. We need economic growth to give people more opportunities and more space to pursue their dreams and better education and to ensure that people can get their pensions paid at a normal level. Isn't that what economic growth is for? Or does the Party deny that for the Animals, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u69	Development is taking place, a shift in the sectors in which we work, live or complete education. That changes every time. We will see that very much in the future, because we simply have a growing world population. However, economic growth is directed towards more production. You can try to green them by looking for recyclable materials or other greening, but we must be aware that economic growth is a problem, because the earth is not growing. There is only a limited amount of raw materials per year at our disposal. We can recycle them, but in that sense we will also have to shape the economy of enough, which the Club of Rome has already mentioned. This means that we are not going to move forward with GDP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u70	I'll stay away from the Club of Rome, who hasn't been right in everything. The earth is not growing, says Mrs Thieme. In fact, she is absolutely right about that, but there is, of course, enormous progress with regard to the crops on the earth and the ways in which we can use certain land and better protect certain crops from all kinds of pests. Those steps have led to growth again. This growth has given more people on this earth a chance to live a normal human life without uncertainty whether they make it the next day. That's what we need growth for, right? Why does the Party for Animals always say that growth is bad, when I think it means that excess is bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u71	Excessiveness is certainly bad, but I refer to the way in which we produce food. A lot of growth has been achieved in this area. The Netherlands is a large exporting country of all kinds of products, but this is at the expense of biodiversity. There is a phosphate crisis and we have almost no fertilizer left to sustain that growth. We will therefore have to make other choices. It may seem like a one issue when I talk about animal eating, for example, but that has everything to do with the fact that there are so many people in this world and that half of all the cereals produced in the world are destined for animals in the bio-industry and not for humans. We will have to change that in such a way that we no longer need fertilizer or agricultural poison. Then you don't grow, but you use the land in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u72	You're gonna finish up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u73	We must say goodbye to GDP as the most important indicator of our well-being. This can only be done if, at the beginning of the policy cycle, we guide the maintenance and enhancement of the broad understanding of well-being. Indicators for this policy belong to any budget and will lead to insight into which forms of policy are no longer sustainable. Mr. Chairman. Finally, you will not be surprised if I say that all these indicators will show that we need to put an end to the bio-industry as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to start with Lucebert's quote, but Mr Bruins has already done so. I would point out that there are still the rules: "become rich from touchability, and equal to everything, like the heart of time." That fits in well with this debate, because we recognise that we must go along with our time with the use of economic indicators and the designation of prosperity in our country. I am very grateful to the committee for its great commitment. The committee has done a great job with a complete overview of backgrounds and opportunities to look at prosperity. It has made good use of what was already available in other countries. In the investigation, the Committee focused in particular on the report of the Stiglitz Committee, to its famous American chairman, which was drawn up in 2008 at the request of Sarkozy. The mandate to this committee was similar to the mandate of the Temporary Commission on Wide Prosperity: to investigate the limitations of GDP as an indicator of economic performance and social progress and to identify additional information that can better reflect social progress. For example, on today's statistics, the Stiglitz Committee writes that it is better to use household income and consumption, gross national income, than production, GDP. This way you map the income of the residents instead of the output of companies. Bbp is often misleading because production within the service sector does not always lead to material prosperity in the country itself. I am thinking, for example, of the letterbox companies. However, in the committee's report, I do not see why, for example, politics should not place much more emphasis on this important distinction. My group asked a question about this in the written round. Would it not be wise to make that appeal, including to us here in the Chamber and to our political leaders? It is a good thing that the committee has opted for an economic approach to the concept of prosperity. Prosperity is about satisfying needs with scarce goods and services. It is now important that, in addition to GDP, these other welfare indicators also play a role in discussions on how well things are going with the Netherlands, what is our impact on people in other countries and on the environment, and how we can ensure that prosperity will continue to exist in the future. The Committee has taken a good first step in its proposal to extend the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor, to make it appear more often and to make it more up-to-date. I do wonder whether this monitor, by presenting it during the debate, can indeed play the role envisaged by the committee. The state of the country is now often determined by GDP and Macro Economic Recognitions. Has the committee considered how GDP can be supplemented as it wishes? The question is whether the data currently available at the planning offices and the Central Statistical Office are sufficient. The Committee recommends that data that are not up-to-date or can easily be made up-to-date should still be processed in the monitor via nowcasting. Is this nowcasting, according to the committee, a good substitute for the collection of data on topicality? I also wonder to what extent this is not going to impose additional burdens on the Central Statistical Office. I am also very curious to see how the Minister for Economic Affairs looks at the case of the CBS. In January we discussed with him the way in which the CBS was set up. When it appeared that the cuts have accumulated considerably at this agency in recent years. The committee's proposal also looks at inequality and the way prosperity is divided. I have to say to Mr Bruins, who had already given me this in his contribution, that it is crucial for the SP to incorporate this well into the new Monitor Brede Prosperity. Only then can it be properly assessed whether government policy ensures that citizens have equal access to public services such as education and care. Let me immediately throw a stone in the pond: of course that is not the case. It is very nice to know how we stand internationally in terms of material prosperity, but if the abolition of the basic grant reduces the number of students and if the elderly only retain their home care if they pay a large part of it themselves, you have to wonder how much it is worth and whether it is worth anything. The same applies to the distribution of income and wealth. We know that the Netherlands is one of the richest countries in the world, yet more than 400,000 children are growing up in poverty. If the Monitor Brede Prosperity provides insight into this, he certainly gets the support of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. Dutch people love lists. We give everything a figure: the holiday destination, our work, our relationships, the quality of our lives and food, the value of our lives. Personally, I always enjoy these lists. "Benchmark" may not be a Dutch word, but we could have just invented it. The Dutch also want to be the best. This year's football is a bit off, but if we win, we'll be more united than ever. We always look at who's doing worse, but also who's doing better. We'll find an explanation for the fact that we score lower than any other country. We Dutch are even very indignant when we are lower than countries that we actually find and think are far less smart, socially safe or prosperous. International analyses lead to very interesting reports and, for the Netherlands, report figures. The committee itself may have given a random Google search for report figures. It is a fact that the Netherlands often does well in those comparison lists. But what does that actually say? The interpretation of these figures is always the beauty of those lists. It always gives sufficient cause for political debate, but also for discussions at parties, when people mirror their personal situation to those international lists. That is why the Chamber also regularly discusses lists; for almost a year, a majority debate on the fifth place on the Global Competitiveness Report of the World Economic Forum has been planned. I would just like to point out that there is enough inspiration for the political debate. I therefore ask the committee whether it agrees with me that there are enough possibilities for the Chamber to debate and do so at any time on independent comparative lists on various economic and social issues. I would also like to ask the committee what conclusions it has drawn from the Google mission and whether it considered that there are many interpretations of international comparison lists. Fortunately, the Committee of Inquiry recognises the unique role of the Central Bureau of Statistics. I have already said in previous debates that I would like to make use of the wealth of information provided by the Central Statistical Office. For example, I know that today analyses are being presented on the experiences of Dutch people with their health and on the suspects of crimes. Later this month, two more reports will follow, one on the amount of freight traffic in the Netherlands and one on men and women on their way to work or hobby. Asked and unsolicited, we get information on all kinds of relevant topics that say something about the state of our society. We can use that information for debates in the Chamber and for quantifying the gut feeling. The data are freely available to everyone, for any application, whether for television, articles or graduation papers. The committee states that the Netherlands is leading the way with the CBS. Can the committee also give an appreciation for this? Does the committee conclude that the Netherlands is at the forefront of independent research data? With the Welvaart report in map, the committee tries to give an extra dimension to the broad concept of prosperity. That is a difficult task, because the committee has also found that broad prosperity is not easy to measure. The Committee rightly concludes that hundreds of attempts have been made to achieve international clarity. These all died in beauty. However, the data in the Netherlands are very reliable, because of the money we can and want to spend on this research. The CBS also determines our gross domestic product. I share the conclusion that gross domestic product is not sufficiently useful as an indicator of broad prosperity. It only says something numerically about the size of our economy. However, I also share the conclusion that this is the best available alternative to the determination of prosperity and the international comparison. I am glad that we have this indicator because it says something at national level about the size of the economy and has a predictable value for tax revenue, employment and perspective and because it says something about our country at international level. I also note that people at work, at home or on the streets have nothing to do with GDP. People look at themselves at first. They realize that money doesn't necessarily make happy, but it helps. More and more people have the freedom to make their own choices with our prosperity and, for example, make the level of their salary subordinate to happiness at home. They can take parental leave, care leave or unpaid leave when life demands it. They can direct their own housing choices and vacation choices. They can be free to care about someone else. I regularly speak in my role as economic spokesperson with people of start-ups who consider shareholder values to be totally irrelevant. They are generally ambitious people who include sustainable goals in their business models and use our prosperity to improve the world in other places through study or companies. We in politics make this possible, not only by talking about it, but also by creating conditions that enable people to make a difference. I believe that we cannot impose our prosperity on other countries, and I think that the committee has less regard for that. I therefore ask the committee whether it shares that view. We can't impose our prosperity. We can only save other countries from the mistakes we have made in the past, allowing other countries that seem to be less prosperous to take greater steps. The VVD is always open to a debate about prosperity, about wider prosperity, and in that sense I would like to address the recommendations of the committee. Does the Committee have a clear map of whether the CBS is able to present, with existing techniques and at no extra cost, a monitor of broad prosperity that, like the Global Competitiveness Index, enables international comparison? Why does the committee's recommendation put so much emphasis on measuring inequality? Does the committee agree with me that our own CBS is already trend-setting in the world of statistical comparisons and that the call for greater harmonisation is unnecessary encouragement for a professionally independent institution? These were a number of questions for the committee and the staff, which I would like to thank for the pleasant reading report. It is a product of broad prosperity. It is a luxury that we as the Netherlands have to be able to worry about and debate these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations on this report. It's very clear and very readable. It was a refresher course for me, too. I am still from the generation raised with the work of Roefie Hueting, the spiritual father of environmental statistics at the CBS. I have learned from this report that in the meantime a lot has happened in this field. All this is explained in a table of 83 pages. I think that's really good. Thank you also for not becoming 844 pages, like a committee in the Bundestag did. That was a committee consisting of 62 German parliamentarians. And they say the Germans are so efficient. This report is about how to measure real prosperity and once you know it, how to translate it into political practice. How do you measure prosperity? Is it about prosperity now or about prosperity in the future and how do the two relate to each other? Then it matters whether today's production is at the expense of tomorrow's prosperity because, for example, we are exhausting natural resources or spending a lot of money on education so that today's GDP is also an investment in the GDP of the future. We do not yet agree on the third dimension of the measurement of prosperity in the broad sense, namely the impact on other countries and, in particular, on developing countries. These are important issues which, unfortunately, our Parliament rarely deals with. We spend many hours here on Chicken receipts from fifteen years ago or on whether motion sister or so was executed to the letter or not, but when it comes to what is sustainable prosperity in the broad sense and how you achieve it, there is hardly any interest. I understand that Mrs Thieme is here, because she is very interested in this subject, but I am a little surprised that Jesse Klaver is not here today, because this is his subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u77	I am now giving Mrs Voortman a chance to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u78	Unfortunately, Mr Klaver had other, very urgent obligations, but I can assure Mr Groot that I too think this issue is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u79	This shows where the priorities seem to lie. It is clear that the gross domestic product is not blissful. GDP measures transactions in the market carried out either through the market or through the public sector. It is therefore a good measure of value creation through economic activity, but that is not necessarily the same as prosperity. Examples have already been mentioned. If you pump gas out of the field in Groningen, there's houses sinking and then you repair those houses again, then that prosperity goes up twice while it's actually dropped. So there is every reason to look for broader measuring instruments. The committee found it, too. To be precise, the Commission's inventory shows a number of 900. It is right that the committee did not risk an attempt at No. 901 to find out. Instead, the committee opts for a pragmatic approach. Which measuring instruments are best developed and, following that, what is the right advice? From this search, the OECD's so-called Better Life Index is the most promising one. The Labour Party finds the committee's argument convincing on this point and therefore supports Recommendation 1. It says that the CBS must be inspired by this index and on that basis the Monitor Sustainable Netherlands can develop into a Monitor Brede Welvaart. The second recommendation is to make that monitor an important topic in the annual accounting debate. Then the question immediately arises: why not on Prince's Day? I understand very well that the committee considers the likelihood that that indicator will be snowed down on Princess Day. But on the other hand: on Accountability Day one looks back. Just when it comes to broad prosperity, you have to look forward. I ask the committee to reflect once again on how it could get a place in a more forward-looking debate. I would also like to join Mrs Thieme in saying that, for example, dashboard could not be included in the documents for Prinsjesdag. It should also indicate the direction in which the various components of the Broad Prosperity Monitor are developing as a result of planned policies. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. So instead of Accountability Day, you get more of an en-and-approach. I also have a question about page 48 of the committee's report. It states that the United Nations, the European Commission and the OECD have developed measuring instruments to monitor over time whether countries meet the objectives of sustainable growth. The committee then states that these measurements are not covering enough to measure the wide prosperity in the Netherlands and that they are therefore useless for the Dutch political debate. I understand that reasoning of not being supportive, but I wonder how the political debate on whether or not to achieve sustainable growth objectives will get a place in this debate. How does the committee see that? I have two more points and then I finish. First of all, I would like to mention the link between broad prosperity and the CPB overdrafts. There is a lot of complaints in this country about the dominance of the CPB. The Committee rightly points out that many other institutions are also assessing policies, planned policies and their impact on prosperity in the broad sense. So that dominance isn't so bad. I think it is right for the committee to point this out. Finally, I mention the balance between prosperity now and prosperity later. You can have a high level of GDP at the expense of the future, for example if you drill too much gas, or you can have a high level of GDP that also leads to greater prosperity in the future, for example as a result of spending on education, roads, rail etc. I would like to congratulate the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on its consideration of the fact that the existing national accounts already provide a great deal of insight into this and that the so-called capital approach is very helpful in this respect. However, my final point is that the analysis is incomplete. We all know that the Netherlands, and not just the Netherlands, is facing the huge challenge of moving towards a sustainable economy. This requires substantial investment, including public investment. This is a highly topical debate; see also VNO-NCW's pleas for NL Next Level. In my opinion, the committee does not escape a reflection on the discount rate for public investment, for example in renewable energy, but it can also be about roads, or public transport. It is precisely in the choice of discount rate that you express how you weigh the importance of today against the importance of the future. The CPB now calculates social cost-benefit analyses with required returns of up to 5%. This is because large financial risk premiums are charged. On the other hand, you may take away other, non-financial risks for the future as a result of these investments. An example. Why, for example, is investment in health in SMEs included with a risk premium of 3%? It would be a welcome addition if the committee had another reflection on this in the second term. That would make this further excellent report even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u80	Thank you. We are thus at the end of this first term on the part of the Chamber, but those who listen and reply next week are also Members of Parliament, united in our temporary committee on the concept of prosperity. We'll continue at 1.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u81	There's a list of incoming items on the Registrar's table. That list contains proposals for the examination of these documents. If there is no objection to this before the end of the sitting, I assume that it will be accepted.
