ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. Speaking time is fixed at four minutes per spokesperson. I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Gesthuizen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have, of course, had a very frequent debate with the Chamber over the last ten years on the situation in the postal market. I will make no secret of it.... I have never done so.... that I have been a fervent opponent of the liberalisation of the postal market. The fact that the Netherlands has been so far ahead of this is perhaps very expensive for us now, looking at the recent developments in which bpost tries to take over PostNL. We were already told in the newspapers that there are different sounds from the cabinet. The Minister for Economic Affairs is here today, and I am not happy with it, but we cannot do so much. The Minister did point out that there is still a protection structure in PostNL. But then the Prime Minister said in a more fervent way that this would be an undesirable course of action. In other words, the Prime Minister does not want, if I understand correctly, a current state-owned company, which is what we are talking about: bpost is a state-owned company now that our fully privatised PostNL operates on a liberal market gets its hands on it. Can I ask the cabinet today, through the Minister for Economic Affairs, what exactly is the cabinet position regarding the possible takeover of PostNL, in particular by the possible acquisition partner bpost? How does the Minister for Economic Affairs indicate that, although a company has private characteristics, most of it is still in state hands and has very many privileges, in conjunction with the fact that the market in Belgium has not yet been fully liberalised? An inter-group procedure has been initiated against the Belgian State. How does the Minister for Economic Affairs assess the fact that a company that still has those benefits and operates with state aid in a protected market at the moment says: well, that's very nice; the Netherlands has already completely released that market? PostNL must compete fairly sharply. There are also many discussions about this between newcomers on the market and the former state-owned company. This is closely monitored by the Authority for Consumer & Market (ACM). It ensures that it all happens fairly, that there is no false competition and that there is no cross-subsidisation. How does the Minister weigh this difference: on the one hand, a state-owned company that has the advantages of a protected market, a protected construction and grant conditions, and on the other hand, a company that is in a fighting market, that is what I can call it at the moment? must be able to stand up? How does the Minister see a possible acquisition of............................................................................................................................................................................... Mr President, I can leave it at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u3	Mr. Chairman. I will take over from my colleague Kees Verhoeven, who had to be on another occasion. That's why you see me in your midst. I must say that this is a very interesting subject to discuss with you and to ask the Minister a number of questions. We have all read in the media that bpost is engaged in a friendly takeover of PostNL. It's been negotiated for months, with the Minister's knowledge. The Minister and the Prime Minister have expressed a negative opinion on this matter and have intensive contacts with their Belgian colleagues. PostNL also said not to see anything in the takeover. Does the Minister consider that bpost is considering a hostile takeover? We would also like to know why the cabinet is acting like this. The Minister writes in his letter that this is not a vital process or a threat to national security. PostNL is a private company. The Dutch State is not a shareholder. Then why the cabinet's resistance? I understand that the Minister is concerned about employment, working conditions and pensions. So do we. It is not nothing; it is right that we should also be concerned about this. Is that why the Minister can open things up? Can he send the letter of bidding to the Chamber? Then we can also check to see if these things are in danger. What does the cabinet intend to do if bpost still makes an offer for a hostile takeover? D66 also has reservations, but that is not because a foreign company wants to take over a Dutch company; we have reservations about the impact on competition on the Dutch postal market. What impact does this potential acquisition have on that competition? What role is the Authority's Consumer & Market playing in this regard? Indeed, it controls takeovers and mergers on the competitive effects. I would also like an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u4	Mr. Chairman. No matter how friendly the offer of bpost is, and no matter how much we appreciate our southern neighbours, the PvdA-group finds it very undesirable if PostNL would fall into the hands of bpost. In De Telegraaf last Saturday I would have talked about "capitalist dogs," but I was talking about "capitalist hurdles." I then tried to explain why you can defend yourself against grasshopper capitalism. Now there is no grasshopper capitalism here; absolutely not. We appreciate the southern neighbours and we also appreciate bpost, but still we have several arguments why PostNL or at least the board of directors and the head office should stay here in the Netherlands. This is firstly with a view to a vital communication infrastructure. In this respect, we disagree with the government. After all, the medical post, the mourning post, the ordinary post and a lot of things that we have to deal with in relation to the government still go through the postal network. Last week or two weeks ago, a man received community service because he had shut down almost the entire Internet for a whole week. It was a DDoS attack, but of course the power could also fail. As long as we have no alternative, we need the postal infrastructure. The PvdA sees this as a vital infrastructure. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to that. Secondly, we think it is important to keep PostNL in the Netherlands because of the control. It's not just a law that keeps control. It's said, you have an UPD law, right? That's what the FD said. However, I believe that the idea that you can only control this public service by law is evidence of a rather close economic and legal thinking. In the case of state participations, we are so keen on the preservation of a number of crucial companies, because you can steer much stronger by possession. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. How does he see that? If the board of directors goes to Brussels and we want to say something about the UPD or about the parcel delivery companies at PostNL, then the company that is not under Dutch law can simply say: well, we do not. Especially in view of the developments in the postal market and the pressure to reduce the UPD, it will be very difficult for this Chamber to say something about that. That is why it is important to keep PostNL in the Netherlands. One last reason is employment. Many scientific studies show that a merger will lead to fewer jobs. So I'm afraid bpost can't live up to this promise either. However, it is important that it does. It's a big employer. We have several possibilities to prevent this. A first way is that PostNL could have the Stichting Continuiteit PostNL buy up shares and thus create a protection structure, as happened in 2013, when KPN threatened to be taken over by América Móvil. I suspect the Chamber will support a protection structure. A second way to maintain PostNL in the Netherlands is to adapt the Postal Act as a matter of urgency. Two additional provisions should then be included. It's a bit like the notification in the Electricity Act. One provision then stipulates that the Minister's consent is necessary if control is to be changed. The other provision then lays down that the Minister has the right to impose rules on consent or refusal of consent in the event of harm to the public interest. I have just indicated that, in our view, there are enough reasons to see a general interest of the Netherlands in this. In the long term, the bill could also be amended to include unwanted control of telecommunications. This brings me back to the discussion that I started with: we believe that the postal network does belong to the vital infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u5	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few days there has been a lot of unrest about the possible acquisition of PostNL by bpost. For the CDA, this debate is not on its own. We need to see it in a broader perspective. In 2013, a foreign party wanted to take over KPN. Other parties were just talking about that. KPN, like PostNL, is co-responsible for our public infrastructure. This makes takeovers by foreign parties something that the Dutch Parliament has great difficulty with. In the 2013 debates, it emerged that Parliament has relatively little resources to safeguard public interests in such takeovers or even to stop them. Minister Kamp promised the Chamber in 2013 to issue a bill to protect Dutch companies with a strategic national interest. It is now at the end of 2016 and there is still no concrete proposal. In the meantime, a new acquisition of a Dutch company, PostNL, by a foreign party is also taking place. PostNL serves a public interest for us in the Netherlands: the universal postal service. In the media, the Prime Minister and Minister Kamp speak firm language about the takeover of PostNL by bpost. But in concrete terms, they may be relatively few. That's because of them, too. In his letter to the House of Representatives, Minister Kamp wrote that he merely uses the criterion that he wants to take action when national security is at stake. The fact that the postal infrastructure is of strategic national importance does not seem to him to be an issue. The CDA thinks that's a bad thing. We would like to hear from the Minister why he does not think that is the case. The Minister has considered introducing a declaration of no objection in situations where more than 30% of the shares of companies with a strategic public interest would be held abroad. Why has the House of Representatives still not received a proposal? If the Minister had made such a proposal, we would have had something in our hands. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Why is this relevant? The Belgian Deputy Prime Minister said that, with a 40% stake, no decision will pass the board with which the Belgian State disagrees. This should give us some thought. In fact, the foreman of bpost has already hinted at a reorganisation at PostNL in De Telegraaf. That is quite strange, if you think about it, because the liberal attitude of the Minister and of the Prime Minister is that no strobe is being put in the way. For the CDA, PostNL's national strategic importance is an important issue. There is already a strong cut in the number of mailboxes. We have had a lot of critical debates on this. Access to the postal network for the elderly and the disabled should simply be guaranteed as long as not everyone is working digitally. Simply put, we want to keep the mailboxes close to the people and apply an affordable rate for that. The possible takeover by bpost can throw soot in the food at this point. In Belgium, digital developments are still somewhat slower than in the Netherlands. It is likely that there will still need to be a firm reorganisation. How do we prevent this expected reorganisation from being at the expense of PostNL's employees and services in the Netherlands? I'm genuinely worried about this. We really need to avoid getting KLM-like scenes here with PostNL. So our question to the Minister is what lessons he learns from the acquisition of KLM by Air France and the snowing of Dutch interests. If PostNL were to be taken over by bpost, what would be the impact on employment, pensions, the Dutch postal services, PostNL's strategy, the investments and growth of PostNL? The government doesn't seem excited about Bpost's takeover bid. Is that because of the bid or would the Minister receive any takeover attempt with little enthusiasm? PostNL rejected the bid from bpost. Will the Minister soon expect a new bid from bpost or other providers? If so, will the Minister take steps in the short term to stop this takeover and, if so, which one? To what extent does the Minister see the possibility of including in the Postal Act an authorisation requirement in the event of a change of control? I'd like to get an answer to all these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have been sworn in at about the same time as Mrs Gesthuizen of the Socialist Party. We have really warned about these things since 2006, but we have not been taken seriously by anyone. We've filed a motion for a motion. We've warned you. I am also opposed, on behalf of the PVV, to the privatisation of such companies, whether they are energy companies, KLM and so on. Now we're talking about another postal company. That just shouldn't have happened. But now that it is, we have tried to stop the further liberalisation of the postal market, a completely unequal market. However, Mrs Gesthuizen and I failed to do so. We were the only ones. We've really been the only ones. What we can do now is only second best. That is a very sad thing. I wonder what we should do in the future. I really think that one day there should be a parliamentary survey on how to prevent the sale of Dutch companies in the future. All the countries around us have to do with state aid: the Germans, the Belgians, the English and you name it. I can't do this. This should never have been liberalised. It's completely impossible. You're actually hanging blocks from a company. You can also say: with a pony you always lose it against the racehorses with state aid around you. There's just no way to do that. We want this week to see what the government can do to safeguard PostNL's Dutch interests. We understand that there is a protection structure in the form of a foundation, but it is unknown what that means. This foundation can take action if the continuity, independence and identity of PostNL are compromised. But when does the foundation take action and how often? What's the Minister gonna do? There must be a plan for all crucial Dutch companies. Those are the companies of national interest that the BV Netherlands serves. Those companies must be protected from unwanted foreign takeovers. This concerns Schiphol, KLM, PostNL, energy companies and so on. In fact, I believe that banks should remain in the hands of the state, because they concern every citizen. I want the Minister and the rest of the cabinet together to take advantage of all their ministerial capabilities and responsibilities. I'd like to know exactly what possibilities there are. What's the Minister gonna do? He's gonna have a conversation tomorrow. What's he gonna say to the Belgians? What's gonna happen? Can he give anything up? It is one of the largest private employers in our country. We've been there before. We've been standing here for the past two weeks talking about KLM. Mr President, you know that better than anyone. KLM is another major private employer of national interest. Now we're back here. That has to end. How does the Minister view the whole situation? Does the Minister also see that a takeover is de facto a hollowing-out or perhaps a sale by PostNL and that this will cost a lot of Dutch jobs and also pensions? Can he respond to that? According to PostNL, the Dutch market has experienced the largest volume reductions. In Belgium these volume reductions are still to come. Does the Minister also see that bpost might want to transfer the consequences to PostNL? Mr Mulder of the CDA has already mentioned this. I really see similarities here with Air France-KLM. I don't think the minister's gonna see it, but I can see it. Is it possible for the Minister to amend the Postal Act in such a way that a transfer cannot take place without the government's consent and without it being submitted to the Chamber? In the end, we decide what needs to be done here. I'm also concerned about what's about to happen to the shareholders. Does the minister have a picture of that yet? I don't know what they're getting into the milk, or what influence they have. I would like to know that from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u7	Mr. Chairman. A few more weeks and most people get their Christmas cards back on the bus. A lot of people look forward to that. The discussion about the takeover of PostNL by bpost raises questions for many people. Are those Christmas cards gonna be on time in the future? Is the birth post or the grieving card still coming at the right time? Sending and receiving mail is still an important way for many people to get in touch with family and friends, but also with government. The postal market has changed enormously. This has been shrinking for years in a row and the end is not yet in sight. This is precisely why PostNL deserves a great deal of praise, because the company has been efficiently reorganized in these difficult circumstances. The situation in 2006, when PostNL's last shares were sold, is not comparable to the current situation in which most of the mail is sent digitally. To put it simply: the smartphone and the iPad didn't exist at the time. As has been said, the post still plays an important role in our society and will do so for some time to come. The big question is how to maintain the level of provision without drawing this directly to us as a government. A few years ago, we took the step towards privatisation of our postal market. We are therefore at the forefront of this compared to many other European countries. This choice was made because we provided the shrinking postal market. The alignment with market needs should be made much more explicit. We are proud that this has been done in the Netherlands. The universal postal service stands and is profitable. Following the first attempt to acquire PostNL, it was noted that there was an unfair playing field on the European market and unfair competition. The VVD therefore asked the Minister at the beginning of July whether there was a free, liberal European postal market. The Minister's replies gave the VVD the impression that this was the case in Belgium. As regards the reaction of our Prime Minister and our Minister at the beginning of this month, the VVD has a clear question. What information does the Minister now have to make a more explicit statement on a possible takeover? Does he want to share it with us? There were also two questions at the VVD when the interest of bpost became known. First of all, what is the benefit of this acquisition? What is the efficiency advantage of the new company? Postmen who do their work on Ameland do not move to Zaventem. The universal postal service is a locational, labour-intensive sector. Where's the advantage? Of course, this question is also relevant to the shareholders of PostNL. Secondly, the universal postal service in the Netherlands is just profitable. What's that like in Belgium? If the volume reductions in Belgium are also beginning to become noticeable, will there be cuts in the least-neighbourly jobs? Is it possible to distinguish between individual markets in regulation, so that there are challenges wherever they are? Can the Minister guarantee that this will be prevented by the 2009 Postal Act at all times, in order to protect our jobs? It's about something. It's about 50,000 jobs. PostNL is the largest private employer in the Netherlands. In the media, it is emphasised that the Belgian government participates in the decision on business choices. This suggests that a different reality is being introduced at PostNL, with all the risks involved. Are these risks sufficiently visible and manageable to protect the public interest? This concerns an acquisition of a listed company by another listed company. That's what official rules are for. The Dutch government has not owned any shares since 2006. Can she play a role at all? If the government stirs itself enormously in this dossier, this could lead to a disruption if Dutch companies take over a foreign company next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u8	Mr. Chairman. In 2011, the First Chamber decided to launch a parliamentary investigation into privatisation and de-determination of public services in the period 1990-2010. The initiative for this research was taken by Professor Egbert Schuurman, at the time group chairman of the Christian Union in the Upper Chamber. It was the first time that the First Chamber conducted such an investigation. Chairman of the committee became ChristianUnion senator Roel Kuiper. In 2012, this parliamentary committee of inquiry concluded: "We need to learn lessons from privatisation and independence of public services. Citizens' interests have been viewed unilaterally." Today we have another example in which we see that when we think about splitting up and going internationally, companies that have a strong connection with the public interest have dealt with ideologically and carelessly. There was no coherence in policy, there were no decision-making or review frameworks and there was no state-wide approach to arrive at a reasoned ordering of forms of private and public performance of public tasks, Kuiper concluded. This way of ad hoc political companies continues to this day, including site-related services, as we see at the moment in the ideological reverse decision to nationalise ProRail, without proper prior examination of all scenarios. It is important for politics to keep a grip on public interests in order to safeguard the general Dutch interest. There is no point in saying anything about PostNL, because it is now entirely owned by huge international investment companies. That is something we, as representatives of the people, have not been discussing for a long time. Is it fair, I ask the Minister, that a Belgian state-owned company does such a takeover? Public interest is secured through the universal postal service. Koninklijke PostNL carries out the universal postal service in the Netherlands and in postal transport abroad as provided for in the Postal Act and the regulations based on it. In the universal postal service we are dealing with a shrinking market. Especially in shrinking regions such as Groningen, Drenthe and Zeeland, the viability is under pressure. Also in shrinking regions residents are entitled to a mailbox nearby and a mailman who knows the neighborhood and who can contribute to social security. This is a public interest that the Dutch government must continue to take responsibility for. To what extent can the Dutch government monitor the public interest when PostNL is taken over by bpost? What guarantees can the Minister give?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u9	I think this is a good time to give Mr Graus the opportunity to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u10	I regret that Mr Bruins did not arrive in the Chamber until this late. He says very sensible things. I would have liked him to have been with Mrs Gesthuizen and me since 2006. I do have one comment. Mr Bruins says that we are not about it, but we are about everything. It's about one of our country's largest private employers. That's what we're about. It's about tens of thousands of people. That's what the room's about! The government is the shepherd, the keeper of the sheep. We're checking and we're allowed to break into anything. We're allowed to interfere with anything. I'd like to say that. We do have something to say about it. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u11	The government is not basically about private companies, but of course about private companies representing a public interest. That's what we're talking about here. Through the Postal Act and the Universal Postal Service, this Chamber is indeed about ordering letters by PostNL, or by any company that is behind it. In this respect, I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Graus. In 2015, the requirements for the universal postal service, the UPD, were removed from the law and put into an AMvB. This has already created more distance in securing the public interest. The Christian Union was then the only party in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber voting against. Now another step is being taken which threatens to increase the distance from the citizen. How does the Minister look back on this decision in 2015 in the light of the latest developments? In 2012, Mr Kuiper concluded: "Anno 2012 has shown that the liberalisation of the postal market is not as successful as, for example, the liberalisation of the telephony market. PostNL has a dominant position, but has to reorganise a lot due to disappointing returns. Services to citizens are also expected to decrease." Finally, I would like to draw attention to the position of PostNL staff. The postal market needs a hard lower limit in terms of working conditions. What's the Minister gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u12	We came here at the end of the first term of office. Let me give the Minister an opportunity to prepare his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u13	Mr. Chairman. Let's see which Dutch company we're talking about first. PostNL originated from the PTT. We decided at a very early stage, in 1989, that the State-owned company PTT had to be converted into an NV, a public limited company. It was then named KPN. From 1989 onwards, a process was initiated which transformed the state-owned company into a company which would operate entirely on the free market. That process meant, among other things, that there was a split between the postal part and the telephone part. In the period between 1994 and 2007, the sale of all shares took place, both from KPN, the telephone part, and from TPG, as the postal part was called at the time. The whole process was completed in 2007. This means that we are talking about a company whose privatisation started in 1989 and which was completely completed in 2007, nine years ago. That means that all the shares have been sold, that there is no gold stock left and that there is no government commissioner. The company has become completely private. We are talking about that situation right now. Of course, it is always possible to buy shares from this company. This can happen in picks, but a large package can also be bought. An offer can also be made. On 6 November, Bpost, the Belgian postal company, proposed to PostNL to combine both companies, bpost and PostNL. PostNL subsequently examined this proposal in detail and discussed it in the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. PostNL then decided, after consideration, to reject that unsolicited and conditional proposal. This decision was taken by the board of directors and the supervisory board of PostNL and was supported by the works council. The company's organs have given a number of arguments for this, some of which were price and others terms. Another argument was that the company has confidence in an independent future. The company considers that it has made the necessary adjustments and that it is ready for the future, without being dependent on an acquisition by another. The company also considers that the Belgian government's control of the company is undesirable. It is good to note that on the same day that bpost made a proposal to PostNL, 6 November, the Belgian minister De Croo in an interview on Belgian television said that if both companies merged, 40% of the shares would remain in the hands of the Belgian State. He said that with 40% there is no decision that can be taken without the Belgian State agreeing. So no decision can be taken without the Belgian State agreeing. That ruling supported, in the view of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, the considerations they made. They rejected the offer then. I myself have been involved in what has been playing around PostNL over the years. That makes sense. It is a company with a total of 25,000 formation sites. A lot of people work part-time there, but together they are about 25,000 formation sites. For that reason alone, the company has my attention. Moreover, we have imposed the universal postal service on this company. The company is therefore obliged to collect and deliver mail. That's why I have a special interest in this company. In addition, it is a former state-owned company. We have deliberately started the process of letting this company go out of state hands and putting it into the market. When this happened, I said that it was primarily up to the shareholders to decide what they want to do with their shares. They'll make the decision eventually. This applies to the shareholders of all companies, including the shareholders of this company, which was privatised nine years ago without any further restrictions. So the shareholders have to decide what they think. As a general rule, it is very important for the shareholders what the board of directors and the supervisory board of the company think. That's what they'll take into account. It is therefore primarily up to the shareholders. However, I have also said the following. It used to be a Dutch state company. This has now been privatised by the Netherlands. The possible merger with bpost would now create a company of which 40% of the shares would be owned and maintained by the Belgian State. This represents 40% of the shares of the total company. The Belgian Minister said that no decision could be taken without the Belgian State agreeing. That led me and the Prime Minister to the statement, which I shall now repeat, that it is in our view a step backwards from the process initiated in the Netherlands, whereby the Dutch State is replaced by the Belgian State. We wonder what the effect of this would be on the functioning of the Dutch postal market, thinking of ensuring employment and ensuring the UPD (universal postal service). If the Belgian State is to take decisions as a major shareholder that are primarily in the interest of the Belgian State, one cannot exclude that important discussions about reorganisations, redundancies and investments will be mixed with Belgian political arguments. Then there is a risk that the importance of the Netherlands will snow under. That is why we believe that the supervisory board and the PostNL board should have taken the position they have taken. It is also in line with the analysis we have made. In our view, it is a step backwards if the end result of a process that we have deliberately initiated is that the Dutch State is being replaced by the Belgian State. That is what we must follow and we must also give our opinion on this. I have already done so in several conversations I have had with my Belgian colleague. At that time, it was a first step towards what is now going on. This did not lead to a situation in which a formal response from PostNL had to be given. Now, six months later, this has repeated itself. There is now a concrete proposal, on which PostNL has also given a concrete response. In view of the interests that I have just mentioned, it is logical that the Dutch government should have an opinion on this too and that it should do so in the exchange of views with the Belgian authorities. That does not alter the fact that the shareholders are the ones who make the decision. That's what I started and that's how I'm gonna stay. We will have to wait and see how the decision will turn out, but I also think that the Dutch government's view is significant, given the constructive understanding that must be found with the Dutch government. Such an understanding is necessary. I believe that the views of the PostNL board and the supervisory board are particularly important for the shareholders. That is the situation that is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u14	I would like to make the following point, although I believe that the last words of the Minister are to explain how he intended his speech. The Minister concludes that the Dutch government should have a view on this. I understand that this view is important for the shareholders, but to what extent is it also important for the Belgian authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u15	We'll have to wait and see. An initiative has been taken in Belgium. I had conversations about that when it was on the rise. Now it's happening again. I will have another discussion on this with my colleague shortly. I will tell you how it is viewed from the Dutch point of view. I will also listen to him when he makes it clear what is being looked at in Belgium. We both know that the shareholders must make the decision, but we have also understood that the Belgian authorities consider it important to keep the 40% share package in their hands. The Belgian authorities will also have to agree to all important decisions to be taken. We'll talk about that. I will make it clear how we look at this from the Dutch point of view and how we see its effects on the Dutch interest, including the importance of the employees, the importance of the UPD and the importance of the proper functioning of the Dutch postal market. Those consultations are ongoing. We give our views, we listen to others and discuss them. But we all realize that the decisions are ultimately taken by the shareholders of the private company PostNL.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u16	That's clear. I do not want to run in front of the troops, but may I ask the Minister whether he can tell us here whether his statements to the Belgian authorities were a clear 'no, we do not want to do so; we do not think this is desirable'?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u17	Yes, you can ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u18	A conditional proposal has been made. It has been said: it can be discussed. PostNL's leadership concluded that the conditional proposal was also an unsolicited proposal. The company itself believes that it is ready for the future and that it can continue independently. The company does not consider it desirable if the Belgian government plays an important role in the decision-making process in the Netherlands. On this basis, PostNL has reached a conclusion. My first reaction was that we deliberately started a process in the Netherlands and that it is a step backwards if the process leads to the disappearance of the Dutch government being replaced by the Belgian government, which is primarily responsible for Belgian interests. Those views live and are exchanged. In the end, we will have to look at what conclusions the shareholders draw and what conclusions the Belgian State draws as a major shareholder in terms of whether or not to pursue what they are doing. We must realise that the decision is not taken by the Dutch cabinet, nor by the Dutch parliament, but that the decision is taken by the shareholders of the private company. The decision is taken in Belgium by the shareholders of bpost. At present 51% of the shares are held by the Belgian State. That is my response to what Mrs Gesthuizen said in her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u19	Mrs Mulders, is this the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u20	Yes. I am pleased that the Minister is very critical of this takeover. We also hear what we have heard in the media here in the House of Representatives. I was wondering if the Minister regretted that he had not already sent a bill to the House of Representatives to put forward this kind of infrastructure as being of national strategic importance. If we had dealt with that bill in the Lower House, we might have had a better position now. I say this in response to the discussion on KPN in 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u21	No, but I'll go into it in a little more detail. In this case, it is a part of business activities in the Netherlands that has been repeatedly identified, up to four times, as not being vital in the sense of which Mrs Mulder refers. This means that what was and applies to the telecommunications market, for which a law was first envisaged, but for which an amended form of that law is now being considered, does not necessarily apply to the postal market because, as I said, it has been repeatedly identified as non-vital.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u22	I suggest, if the Minister comes back to it later, that I give you the floor afterwards, Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u23	Let me turn to the previous point and the Minister's comments on the takeover plans. He said it was a step backwards, but I also think I read that the Minister said PostNL was a public interest. What does the Minister mean by that, also in relation to Mrs Mulder's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u24	I said two things. My message contained two elements. The first was that decisions are taken by the shareholders and that we must realise this. The second element was that this would be a step backwards, given the process we have been going through in the Netherlands since 1989. That was my message. Of course, a company with 25,000 formation sites, dedicated to the UPD and formerly a state-owned company, has special attention, because such a company plays a special role in Dutch society, as other companies do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u25	This means that, according to this minister, the definition of public interest means only the interests of employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u26	I'll go into that public interest straight away. When an offer came from Mexico on KPN, we realized that this would cover a large part of the Dutch telecommunications infrastructure under the control of a company in another country. It was a question of whether that was an acceptable situation. We've been talking about it. I concluded at that time that it was wise to establish in terms of telecommunications infrastructure that it was of such importance to the Netherlands that, if there were major distortions there, this would pose a risk to national security or to public order. These are also the margins within the agreements we have made in Europe: you can intervene in a market if public order or national security is at stake there. In my view, this could be the case with the telecommunications market. I therefore wanted to come up with a legislative proposal with a provision to prevent undesirable developments. I worked out that bill, but it wasn't enough to submit it to the Chamber. I wrote to the Chamber on this issue that we would focus mainly on KPN, but there are also other companies that manage important telecommunications infrastructure. These are companies that are often not based in the Netherlands, but have a daughter who is active here. This requires legislation that applies not only to companies in the Netherlands but also to parent companies abroad. This also brings with it restrictions for these companies. They again have an impact on the location climate in the Netherlands. All in all, that bill wasn't a very good one. We then reset it. We are now working on a new proposal, in which we do not designate companies in advance. However, we indicate which interests should be protected and which criteria are applied to assess whether or not these interests are at issue. Action can be taken by the public authorities at the moment of concrete action. There is no prior request on the part of the companies. There is no pressure on companies in the sense that they have to come up with information, that they have to have people checked and that they have to have things assessed by the Dutch State. None of that has yet been discussed. Only when there is a concrete situation and there is a need to intervene can we intervene. That's the way I work it and try to turn it into the law. The intention is for this to lead to a conclusion within the cabinet in spring and then to proceed in procedure. What we are doing does not apply to the postal sector. The postal sector has been assessed several times, and it has been assessed whether it is a sector of vital importance, quite translated, i.e. if that interest is harmed, national security or public order is affected. We looked at this for the first time in 2006, when it was investigated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. A report was drawn up at the time. It has been concluded that, in view of the situation in that market and the activities undertaken by companies in that sector, the sector cannot be considered vital. In 2009, we repeated that session, which also involved the NCTV, the national coordinator. That is when that conclusion was drawn again. If anything happens at the point of mail at one company, there are other companies left. In addition, you can work with couriers and with satellite communication. There are also Internet options. The conclusion has been drawn that the postal sector is not a vital business within the meaning of European agreements on national security and public order. In 2015, we had another look at this by the NCTV, the national coordinator. He's come to the same conclusion again. This year we have looked at the current situation in interdepartmental terms. What about the European agreements? Is it true that we now have to come to a different conclusion? We have come to the conclusion that this is not the case. This means that at the moment I have no point of reference to say that this sector can be regarded as a vital sector in terms of national security and public order and that it could therefore also be regulated in the same way as the one I am currently working on for the telecommunications sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u27	To some extent, I can go along with the Minister's analysis. God forbid, I would say, but when you think of possible terrorist attacks, you think of other things in the Netherlands rather than a sorting centre of a postal company. But of national importance, of course, is the UPD. It is not for nothing that we have laid down these laws. It is not for nothing that every time something threatens to change in that UPD, in the Chamber and also in the public, outside this Chamber, there is a fierce debate about whether it is about the disappearance of a delivery day, the disappearance of a number of mailboxes or changing the pick-up days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u28	Can I also ask to speak about the universal postal service? There are also people who follow us at home, and they don't know those abbreviations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u29	Sure. We're gonna miss you, Mr. Chairman. The universal postal service is laid down by law. I can imagine that not the entire postal market is considered to be a matter of national interest, but can the Minister state very specifically what he thinks about the UPD, the universal postal service?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u30	I wanted to give Mrs Gesthuizen, and with her the Chamber, factual information. I have indicated that there has been four assessments of whether or not to be vital. Four times the conclusion has been drawn that this is not the case. The UPD is being imposed by us on a company. That could be a company like PostNL. If PostNL is taken over by another company, we can still impose the UPD on that company. If we didn't want to impose that on that company, we could charge another company with the UPD. So that possibility remains. Only the fact that PostNL is entrusted with the UPD does not mean that it should be regarded as a vital infrastructure within the meaning of the European framework for national security and public order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u31	I'm gonna make this very simple. We can, of course, look at this very technically, but I just want to talk about the practice. The Chamber, the government and the government consider the universal postal service important enough to legally anchor it. Then I find it a bit harsh when the Minister for Economic Affairs, who has a special responsibility for the UPD, says: that's right, but that doesn't mean that the company that carries him out, apart from the fact that, of course, the company does a lot more than just carry out the UPD, it also has a special position. Of course it is. If the Chamber and the government consider it important enough to legally anchor a particular service, then I think they clearly indicate that it is a very special part of the market, which cannot simply be dealt in without a hitch. I therefore ask the Minister whether it would not be wise to look at what he is now saying a little more specifically in relation to the UPD. Perhaps he will come to the conclusion that our government must have a much heavier voice in dealing with the UPD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u32	There will certainly be no sudden change in the UPD, because we have laid down very specifically in the law what the UPD means. This is also the subject of regular consultations between the government...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u33	Dealing. I didn't say "change," I said "trade."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u34	I'd just like the Minister to answer for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u35	There is a discussion between the government and the Chamber on the precise implementation of the UPD. But the fact that the UPD is so well described in the law does not prevent us from imposing the UPD on PostNL, but that we can also impose it on Sandd. We can also impose it on Sandd after it's taken over by a foreign company. We can impose it on PostNL after it has been taken over by a foreign company. Maybe PostNL will take over a foreign company. None of that matters. The UPD is legally defined in terms of content. A company can then be entrusted with this task. However, the fact that PostNL is entrusted with the UPD does not mean that PostNL should therefore be regarded as a vital infrastructure within the meaning of the European framework for public policy and national security. Above all, I wanted to provide factual information here. We have looked at this important point four times, twice with the involvement of the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator. We've come to the same conclusion each time. That's factual information I'm giving to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u36	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u37	I would like to add my voice to what Mr Gesthuizen said. After all, it is vital infrastructure for the Netherlands. We do have a special law for that. The Minister himself stated that he was concerned about employment and about the influence of a foreign state on our UPD. Somewhere there might be room for the Minister to consider again, in the direction of spring, the possibilities for identifying PostNL as a vital infrastructure. It is simply of strategic national importance that we settle this well with each other. That's the same concern I see in the Minister's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u38	I believe that the UPD is an important provision, although its importance is decreasing every year because there is less and less mail being sent. The amount of mail is reduced by 10% each year. It shifts all the way to the Internet, to digital data exchange. So there's a big change going on, but I still think the UPD is very important. That is why I think it is important that, at a time when the UPD existed and was therefore a fact, we have considered four times whether it should be regarded as a vital infrastructure, as we have done with the telecommunications infrastructure. Four times the conclusion has been drawn that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u39	The Minister makes it very clear that it is not a vital process and that security is not at stake either. Then the next question is: can the takeover process be stopped at all? PostNL is a private company. Eventually, the shareholders go over it. What does this mean for competitiveness and employment? Has the Minister precisely identified the advantages and disadvantages? If it's unstoppable, I'll ask what bets will be shown. This governance is very important for the Dutch sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u40	We do not decide whether or not there will be cooperation, in whatever form, between bpost and PostNL. A letter was sent by bpost to PostNL. This has been discussed internally at PostNL. That letter has been studied. We have come to the conclusion that we are not going to accept it. People aren't up for it. This applies both to the Management Board and to the Supervisory Board. It is also supported by the works council. In doing so, that position has been taken in the management of the company. This will then be taken into account by the shareholders, who will make their choice, on the basis of a wide range of considerations, to be positive or not. The Dutch State is not a shareholder and therefore has no view as such. We also believe that this is not a vital infrastructure. For this reason, too, we have no opinion on it. For a number of considerations which I have just mentioned, we do of course note that it is a step backwards compared to a process that we have been going through since 1989. We think it is a remarkable step if you see the involvement of the Dutch government replaced by the involvement of the Belgian government, with the Belgian minister saying that all important decisions must be taken in accordance with the Belgian government. Then it seems logical to me that the Belgian government should first look at the company as a whole in the interest of the Belgian government. We in the Netherlands believe that such a large company that can handle the future independently and whose leadership says it wants to continue independently can continue independently. We also think it is a step backwards in a process which we ourselves initiated in 1989. We can have that view as a government and communicate it. I have spoken with my Belgian colleague a few times about all the ins and outs and ifs and buts. As far as I'm concerned, that conversation will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u41	Before I give Mrs Koşer Kaya the opportunity to interrupt again, I would like to give room for debate, but we must be careful not to repeat ourselves. We run the same pirouette all the time. If you have a question, we need to see if it does not lead to repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u42	I think I asked a question that didn't have a lot to do with previous questions. It's very simple. The minister says today: PostNL has indicated that this party is not going to happen, so that's it. Then there won't be a hostile takeover, will there? Do I understand the Minister correctly? If the Minister does not completely rule that out, while he says in so many words that it is important to show a good commitment to the Belgian government, to his colleague, then he must also have an idea of what this minister's commitment will be, especially when it comes to governance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u43	It is not that it is ready if the board of directors, the supervisory board and the works council of PostNL have taken a position, but I think that is a very important fact. I take it that it is also an important fact for the shareholders. In the end, shareholders have to decide. It seems to me that it is possible for the Dutch Government to have an opinion on this. We have to deal intensively with PostNL. It's a former state company with 25,000 formation sites. We've ordered it from the U.P.D. The company itself says that it can proceed independently according to its own belief. I've known the company a long time, in all kinds of ways. I also believe that the company can continue on its own. So I agree. Since we started a process from 1989 onwards, we completed it nine years ago, in order to allow the Dutch State to withdraw and to allow it to be a private company, it is not surprising that we find it a step backwards when the position of the Dutch State is taken over by the Belgian State. That is our view. All in all, these will be considerations that weigh the shareholders. Those shareholders will then have to make a decision, because they will ultimately have to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u44	We have just discussed the definition of this infrastructure. I understand that NCTV does not consider it a vital infrastructure for security, but it is an important infrastructure. I tried to tell you why it's important. A lot of medical mail and government communications go through this network. The Chamber is very curious about the following. I say this also in response to the interruption debate between the Minister and Mrs Koşer Kaya just now: should we allow a shareholder to sell a company and that the important company is not vital; I understand that communication network could fall into the hands of another? Then we can transfer it to another company, Sandd for example, but that can also be sold again. If we consider this to be so important and far from being rid of the need for the entire network of PostNL, should we not ensure, for example by amending the Postal Act, that the Minister still has something to say about any sale? After all, it is important, not vital but important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u45	I very much agree with Mrs Vos that it is important what this company is doing and that its services are an important service, but I also think that a service such as the supply of gas to Dutch companies and households is important. I also think the supply of electricity is important. We have also left this to private companies. That also has positive effects. In the field of electricity and gas, there is great competition between suppliers. They benefit from this in the form of low prices. The company PostNL has been privatised. It is left to the discipline of the market. The result is that the company is really ready for the future. It is an efficient company, which has a very well-designed distribution network. The post is taken, processed very professionally and then distributed. The company still stands in a shrinking market of letters and similar mail. The company also has a strong position in the growth market of parcel delivery in the Netherlands and Belgium. As a result of privatisation, a strong company has emerged which itself believes that it is strong enough for the future. I share that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u46	There's an agreement and a difference with the Electricity Act. The Electricity Act states that the Minister has the power of consent if, for example, the control structure is changed; read: shares are sold. The difference between the postal market and the electricity and gas market is that the electricity and gas market is a growth market which is for the time being at least not shrinking and that of the postal service is not, although we think it is an important network. Is it not therefore important that we should also write, similar to the Electricity Act, some kind of protection or permission requirement of the Minister in the Postal Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u47	I must always look at the views of the Chamber and its suggestions. I need to see if there are any elements in that that I need to include in the proposals. That applies to proposals on my part. I will therefore take every suggestion made and made by the Chamber seriously and study it carefully. Right now, I have to report to the Chamber the following about intervention in shareholder ownership. Shareholders have shares; that is their property. We may intervene in this by making certain things impossible, but we have agreed on European law that we should do so in the event of a threat to national security or public order. We have assessed this four times as not being on the agenda for the postal market. That's factual information. However, I will examine and involve suggestions and views that emerge from the Chamber in possible further discussions on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u48	I would like to respond to a statement made by the Minister before that. Does the 2009 Postal Act adequately protect the universal postal service, even in the case of a foreign takeover? I believe that this question, the basic question, remains above the debate. Can the Minister answer that instantly? Then I have two other questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u49	No, we'll do one question at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u50	In my opinion, that is the case. We've captured the U.P.D. We also ensure that the UPD can be carried out profitably in the Netherlands. PostNL has suffered considerable losses for a number of years, but I myself have ensured that the maximum yield of 10%, 11% can be achieved on the possibility we have legally laid down. Indeed, returns were then achieved and they remained within those margins. So I think the UPD is an important provision. It is a provision imposed on a company, but with which it can then earn money. At the moment, PostNL is on that occasion. As far as I am concerned, PostNL remains on that occasion if it takes over other companies or if it would be taken over. If I do not want to do business with PostNL as far as the UPD is concerned, I have the opportunity to charge another company, which can then earn money from it. I do not therefore believe that the UPD is directly affected, but this element is involved. PostNL is a special company. The UPD is one of the elements that makes the company special. It is also about the functioning of the Dutch postal market, in which PostNL is an important player. The large number of jobs involved also plays a role. It is also about the fact that it is the result of a carefully implemented privatisation process. All these considerations were taken into account in the discussions I had with my Belgian colleague. I will also include them in the discussions I will have with my Belgian colleague. In that I will put forward the Dutch interests and the Dutch views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u51	We are now dealing with this situation surrounding the imminent takeover of PostNL. Does the Minister include these developments in the forthcoming future vision for the postal market, which we would receive this quarter? When are we gonna get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u52	I believe that the development that is now taking place in the postal market is a relevant development which should not be overlooked in such an analysis. This will also be addressed, but that will be in line with what I have said on previous occasions and now. But it is indeed a relevant fact. The mail market is on the move. The fact that this Belgian company, which is 51% owned by the State, is interested in this Dutch privatised company is a relevant development that it deserves to be named in that analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u53	How does the Minister reconcile the results of the discussion he is having tomorrow with his colleague in Belgium?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u54	I have had discussions with my Belgian colleague before, and I will now have them again. Such a consultation goes as follows. He tells us how the Belgian Government is looking at the subject and I will tell you how we are looking at it from the Netherlands. We'll see what we can and can't agree on. Then we both have to take our own responsibility for that. I cannot assume the responsibility of the Belgian State, nor can I assume the responsibility of the shareholders of PostNL, but I do have the opportunity to express the view of the Netherlands in consultation with anyone who wants to listen. The Dutch Government is a party to which it is supposed to be listened; that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u55	The Minister continues his speech. I have a feeling he's dealt with quite a lot in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u56	You are right, Mr President. I would like to say something in response to what Mr Bosma has just said. He said I'm coming up with that vision of the future this year. I have promised the Chamber that I will come forward with this in the first quarter of 2017, and I will do so. Mrs Gesthuizen asked about a number of points that I have already been able to address. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked me if I see the bid from bpost as a hostile takeover. It's not so much about how I see it. It's about how PostNL sees it. PostNL did not choose those terms. It has said that it has received an unsolicited and conditional offer. It responded to that. I would not like to choose any other wording than PostNL has chosen. I have already put forward my arguments for the critical attitude I have chosen. Mrs. Koşer Kaya asked me to send the letter of bidding to the Chamber. I assume she means the letter with which bpost made a conditional and unsolicited offer to PostNL. I don't have that letter. It wasn't sent to me. It was sent to PostNL. I can't share letters I don't have, letters sent by one to the other, with the Chamber. So I have to answer the question in the negative. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked what would happen if an offer was made. I assume she means an unconditional offer. There may be all kinds of situations. I do not want to anticipate all possible situations and then have an opinion on them in advance. I believe that it is the shareholders who decide and that it is primarily the bodies of the company, namely the board of directors and the supervisory board, that have to have views on things that are submitted to them. For days we were a bit shocked by the fact that Mrs Vos spoke of "capitalist dogs." I now understand from her that these are capitalist hurdles. In the words of Mrs Vos, that is a little more friendly, I understand. We've already gone over the vital infrastructure. I cannot say anything about the use of protection structures, because in this respect a foundation is involved that is not controlled by me. I'm not supposed to take initiatives or give directions to that foundation either. That foundation has its own responsibility and its own statutes. She will have to act on her own and will have to do things herself or not. I'd like to leave that to the foundation itself. Mrs Vos also mentioned the urgent amendment of the Postal Act. I have indicated what I do not think are the possibilities and why they are not. However, if there are any concrete suggestions from the Chamber, I will be happy to respond directly to them, as far as possible. Otherwise, I will examine them further and then take a position on them on the basis of that investigation. I'll just wait and see. Right now, I don't see what we could do on top of what we've already started. If there are certain developments that need to be addressed on an ad hoc basis, we will, of course, look at them again. This could also be the case here. Ms Mulder asked about the bill I announced in 2013 following what Mr Slim did to his company towards KPN. I also referred to the statement made by my Belgian colleague De Croo. Mrs Mulder also asked us what lessons we learn from the merger of Air France and KLM. This is a successful partnership. At a time of scaling up, this merger was deliberately chosen. This merger has had positive effects for Air France as well as for KLM for some ten years. If concrete things occur, also as a result of developments in the market, then it is primarily up to these companies to find a solution. I think it is best if companies that have chosen for each other jointly look for jointly experienced problems. So I do not think that we should say that something has happened there, which means that we must now do something different than I have just presented to the Chamber. Mr Graus felt that the banks should also be state-owned. We don't think so. We don't think it's better if banks are in state hands. Nor do we think it would be better if the energy supply were in the hands of the state. Nor do I think it would be better if telecommunications or postal services were in the hands of the state. If we can provide things with an orderly legal framework, I think it is very good to ensure that the market functions optimally. I would point out to Mr Graus that the end result of the way in which we have dealt with these matters in the Netherlands is that we are the most competitive economy in Europe. We are the fourth competitive economy in the world. At the moment, our economic growth is two and a half times greater than that of the rest of the European Union. So, yeah, we do a lot of things not wrong. I think responsible privatisation is one of the things that we have not done wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u57	Mr Graus, you will have the floor if we do not then have a separate structural debate on economic planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u58	The last thing the minister said, I totally agree. I read that, too, and I keep track of that. I'll just share that with the minister. I must honestly say that it has worked in the telecommunications sector. That's what I always say. In the past, I have always said this in my speeches. We disagree on the other. I believe that we should keep everything related to a primary need for life, such as energy, heat and so on, in state hands, because it can also be strategically used against us immediately. But that's a difference of opinion we'll never get out of. I don't want to have that discussion with the Minister anymore either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u59	For my part, I am always prepared to enter into the discussion with Mr Graus. Mr Bosma asked what information I had to take a strong position on the takeover. I hope that he will now have insight into the information I had and how I dealt with it. He also asked if I saw any benefits in a merger. I always see advantages and disadvantages of all kinds of things, and I can also imagine. I can imagine that, from the Dutch point of view, it would be a point of interest if the Belgian State, as a major shareholder, was primarily responsible for the decision-making of a large Dutch-Belgian company. The Belgian State is first and foremost accountable to the Belgian parliament. He will therefore look at Belgian interests. That is a remarkable point if, like Mr Bosma, the House of Representatives and myself, you are responsible for the Dutch interest. That is really a point that I think we should take into account and take into account. I have gone into the role that the Dutch government could play and what the government can or cannot do to prevent things. The main line is that it is a privatised company and the shareholders make a decision. Mr Bruins referred to the UPD and privatisation. He had a number of views about this which he linked, among other things, to some more general reflections that the Upper House held in a very valuable way. Mr Bruins will understand that there is simply a fact, if something was deployed in 1989 and completed in 2007, nine years ago. That is why we must act as responsibly as possible. We are therefore also acting as responsibly as possible with regard to PostNL staff and the importance of Dutch society. He wants to see UPD implemented in a good way and also that the Dutch postal market operates in a good way. In this context, I have taken action in the way I have taken them in recent times. I have had intensive consultations with PostNL and also with my Belgian colleague. I will continue to do so in the future. I think it is possible for this issue to come to a good conclusion on the basis of the responsibilities that lie ahead and on the basis of the positions taken by the PostNL bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u60	I see there is one final question from Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u61	In my speech, I specifically asked how the Minister qualified this. I regret that he does not go into that, because I believe that three quarters of my input was about that. A Dutch company that was a state-owned company, we privatized. That is what we have decided to do. That company is moving on a liberalised market and must stand there. This is now in danger of being taken over by a company which is able to be very profitable with a large amount of state aid and a partially protected market. How does the Minister qualify that our Dutch company might be taken over by such a company?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u62	I see this as a step backwards in a process that we have carefully and carefully initiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u63	It's going to be a repeat of moves, Mrs. Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u64	Yeah, I know, but this isn't a very unique discussion we're having with the minister. In a way, it is about when to conclude that there is protectionism or state aid. We also had this discussion about steel coming from China and being dumped here. I would like the Minister to be able to take a broader view of the position of the Dutch Government when it comes to this kind of totally unequal playing fields and thus unfair competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u65	It is a listed company in which the Dutch government not only has no government commissioner and no gold stock, but also no shares at all. This company has been deliberately privatized. The decision on these matters has been taken by the shareholders. That fact is just there. We can act within the European framework with regard to those shareholders if there is a breach of public order and a threat to national security. If that is not the case, we cannot act in the way Mrs Gesthuizen may think desirable. Mrs Gesthuizen also spoke about the threat to the steel market in the Netherlands. I think we have two interests to defend there: firstly, the interests of the Dutch steel-producing companies and secondly, the interests of the Dutch steel-processing companies. In both markets we must ensure that unfair competition is prevented. This is also what the government's policy is aimed at. In short, within clear frameworks, we as a government try to act consistently. We are clear in our view. We consult with those involved in an important case, in this case with PostNL and with the Belgian government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u66	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I note that the Chamber feels a need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u67	Mr. Chairman. I have to say that I have some difficulty with the unconsistent approach of the cabinet in my view. Every time we make a proposal in the Chamber which the cabinet fears will result in an accusation of protectionism or state aid, it is said that this cannot, should not, et cetera. I see that there is another attitude on issues in which the Netherlands must defend itself against protectionism and state aid from other countries. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in Belgium bpost benefits from a very favourable legal and regulatory environment, including public subsidy for public tasks, while PostNL carries out its public tasks without a subsidy;]] [[noting furthermore that the pensions of bpost are state pensions, to which bpost pays only a contribution but is not at risk, where PostNL pays the pensions of its (ex-) employees entirely independently;]] [[further noted that due to the fact that the Netherlands has taken the lead in the liberalisation of the postal market in Europe and that Belgium, on the other hand, does not yet have a fully liberalised market, bpost operates in a much more favourable environment and is therefore far more profitable than PostNL, which can be too easily preyed in a hostile or not hostile takeover;]] [[In conclusion, therefore, there is no level playing field which neither is fair competition;]] [[calls on the Government to block the acquisition of PostNL by bpost or any other foreign party as long as there is no level playing field,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Mei Li Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u68	Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions for the Minister. He says that there is no vital importance and that there is no danger to national security. The only public interest the Minister can therefore look at is the result of a possible takeover on competition in the Dutch postal market. Then the question is whether the UPD is in question. What is the consequence of the business market? What is the result of the package market? Has the Authority also looked at this? I would like answers to these questions. I would like to receive a letter from the Minister specifically addressing the fact that this is a takeover of a private company by a state-owned company and also involving governance. I believe that we need to know very well what the advantages and disadvantages are for the future, what this means for competition and how to strengthen governance in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u69	Mr. Chairman. We are having a debate here that should simply be held, also because the Minister is going to speak tomorrow with his colleague De Croo in Belgium. We would like to send the Minister a message from this Chamber and, I presume, also from many people in the Netherlands, certainly from the staff of the post office. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for the second time this year bpost is making an attempt to take over PostNL;]] [[whereas PostNL manages an important communication infrastructure, which is not in vain embedded in sector-specific laws and regulations regulating universal postal services;]] [[Considering that, in certain cases, the internet may still be vulnerable as an alternative communication infrastructure, not only in the event of a power failure, but also, for example, in the event of a massive ddos attack, as demonstrated in 2013;]] [[whereas it is very important that control of the universal postal service provider remains in Dutch hands, since a foreign postal service provider cannot ultimately be forced to implement the UPD, since the Dutch Postal Act does not apply outside the Netherlands;]] [[whereas PostNL, with approximately 50,000 employees, is still the largest employer in the Netherlands, which represents a major Dutch public interest, which could otherwise be weighed in a combination of companies dominated by Belgium;]] [[Calls on the Government to amend the Postal Act in 2016 by means of an emergency law in such a way that a transfer of substantial equity packages requires the consent of the Minister of EZ, and that these rules and limitations may impose upon it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Bruins and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u70	You've run out of time. If your colleagues have no objection, you can read your motion as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u71	Thank you. Then I'll skip a few things. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for the second time this year bpost is making an attempt to take over PostNL;]] [[whereas PostNL, with approximately 50,000 employees, is still the largest employer in the Netherlands, which represents a major Dutch public interest, which could otherwise be weighed in a combination of companies dominated by Belgium;]] [[calls on the Foundation to ensure continuity in the operation of the protection structure in order to place a large proportion of the shares in the hands of a related foundation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u72	Mr. Chairman. I have signed Mr Vos' motion because I would like to hear from the Minister to what extent there are still possibilities in the Postal Act to include an authorisation requirement for control. I hope there are still opportunities for this. I am tabling a motion which is a little in line with the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber last Friday. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas measures are necessary to protect Dutch companies serving a strategic national interest, including national security;]] [[Whereas the cabinet has still not submitted a proposal, which makes it difficult for the Dutch government to prevent unwanted foreign acquisitions;]] [[calls on the Government to quickly submit to the Chamber an Unwanted Control Act and to appoint the postal infrastructure as a strategic infrastructure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Graus, Mr Bruins and Mr Dijkgraaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-129]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u73	I think this is very much in line with the last paragraph of the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber last Friday, in which he wrote that if necessary, the Cabinet will explore additional measures to safeguard interests. I hope that will be the case for the Minister to make a positive assessment of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u74	Mr. Chairman. I trust that the Minister, while he is still here, will do everything possible, with all his ministerial capabilities and responsibilities, to defend the interests of the BV Netherlands together with the cabinet. I do not make a motion myself, because I have the motion-Mei Li Vos c.s. in piece No. 127 co-signed, in which the Government is requested to amend the Postal Act by an emergency law in such a way that a transfer cannot take place without the government's consent. I also have the Agnes Mulder c.s. motion. in piece No. 129 which calls on the government to prevent unwanted takeovers, to sum it up briefly. I want to leave it at that. I wish everyone a blessed evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u75	Blessed even, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u76	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answer that the UPD can be secured. I have three more questions on that. First of all, can the influence of the Belgian authorities actually be that great under EU law? I hear that there are concerns about that, so I'm actually asking very simply if that's really the right way to do it. A number of protection structures are now being discussed, but the Minister spoke a little less about this in July. My second question is: to what extent can that really not be done? My final question is: how does the Minister keep the Chamber further informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u77	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. The English sometimes say: it's no use crying about spilled milk. There is no point looking back, but if we have made decisions in the past that may have been a little unhappy, we can at least do it better in the future. I have therefore co-signed the motions tabled by my colleagues Agnes Mulder and Mei Li Vos. We must ensure that important infrastructure, such as mail, is maintained in the Netherlands. In my contribution in the first period, I particularly drew attention to the shrinking regions, to the viability, to social security and to the role of the postman in them. I'm still not convinced they're gonna stand up. The universal postal service must remain under strong control of the Dutch government and therefore I have decided to put my name under those motions. So much for my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u78	We have come here at the end of the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u79	The minister's back a little early, so we're starting a little early. Because all the spokesmen are there. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u80	Mr. Chairman. Four motions have been tabled and a number of questions have been put, to which I have the right to reply. I'll start with the motions. In the Gershuizen/Mei Li Vos motion in part No. 126 the government is asked to block the acquisition of PostNL by bpost or another foreign party as long as there is no level playing field. I can't block that. I don't have the options right now. For this reason, I must 'dissuade' the request made by the Chamber, set out in this motion, with the opinion. I advise the Chamber to ask me something I can't. I cannot block that at the moment. I will deal with the questions put by Mrs Koşer Kaya and Mr Bosma. In the motion-Mei Li Vos c.s. in piece No. 127 is requested by the Government to amend the Postal Act very quickly in 2016, which is the result of an emergency law in such a way that a transfer of substantial equity packages requires the consent of the Minister of EZ and that these rules and limitations may impose on it. I understand from the contributions of the various spokesmen, including Mrs Vos, what the background to this motion is and what the considerations are. I think I should look into this proposal in more detail on the legal and other aspects of it. I cannot say at the moment whether and, if so, how this is possible, but I am prepared to find out as soon as possible and to inform the Chamber. I would therefore like to suggest to the authors that they hold the motion until I have sorted it out. On the basis of the information I can then share with the Chamber, it can assess whether it should make this decision. At the moment I am asking the Chamber to give me the opportunity to find out more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u81	But would you like to give an opinion on the motion in case it were put to the vote? We always do that before any negotiations take place here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u82	I don't know if this is possible. I have no idea of all the aspects involved. Mrs. Vos says I have to come up with an emergency bill immediately. I understand what the background is and I want to do justice to it, but I cannot say at the moment that it is possible and I cannot say that I do not want to. I can only say that I would like to find out more, so I defy your suggestion, Mr President, and first ask if the proposers are prepared to hold the motion. If they are not prepared to do so, I will have to do what you asked me to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u83	I've seen non-verbal expressions with Mrs. Vos, so I'm giving her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u84	How long would it take the Minister to send that letter to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u85	I'll do that as soon as I can. For this, I must consult with my Belgian colleague and with PostNL. I will also have to do my own legal homework and perhaps have to consult with the European Commission. I'll try to do all this as soon as possible. I cannot give a timetable now, but I can assure Mrs Vos that I will deal with this as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u86	I'll hold the motion, but I'll get back to you soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u87	Thus she spoke menacingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u88	In the motion-Mei Li Vos c.s. in piece No. 128 The Court requests that the foundation continue to operate the protection structure in order to place a large part of the shares in the hands of a related foundation. This concerns the Chamber itself. It is the responsibility of the Chamber itself to have an opinion on this. It is not for me to express an opinion on this on behalf of the government. I am therefore awaiting the ruling of the Court on this matter. I have no further opinion on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u89	May I translate that as the usual "judge chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u90	I say 'judge chamber' if I may have an opinion on it, but if the Chamber itself decides to express a view to others and not ask me anything, then I am not directly involved. I'd like to leave it all to the Chamber. So I do not want to give a view on it. I'll wait and see what the Chamber comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u91	That's exactly what we were supposed to do. The Minister also did not have to respond to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u92	Well, it's common in this house to ask for advice. Anyway, if you can live with it, that's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u93	In the motion in part No. 129 Mrs Mulder and a number of co-signatories, namely Mrs Vos, Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Graus, Mr Bruins and Mr Dijkgraaf, have asked the government to submit to the Chamber a law on unwanted control as soon as possible and to appoint the postal infrastructure as a strategic infrastructure. I intend to submit that law to the Chamber as soon as possible. I'm heading for spring 2017. I haven't finished my homework yet. There's still some research going on. Then we need to discuss it in the Council of Ministers. Then it has to go to the Council of State and then it comes to the House of Representatives. But I explained why I cannot name the postal infrastructure as a strategic infrastructure. We have looked at it carefully four times and four times we have come to the conclusion that this is not possible. That is why I advise against the Mulder c.s. motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u94	I'm one of the c.s. In Poland, a law was passed on 1 May 2016 giving the Polish government the right to block the purchase of agricultural land above 3,000 m. That's a little analogous to the discussion we've had about the Unwanted Control Act. So it's okay. No inter-group procedure has been initiated against Poland. To protect private property, that law was passed. So it's possible. Therefore, the argument that it should not be subject to European rules does not seem to me to be a valid argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u95	That seems to me to be a valid argument. What is the European framework in this respect is well known to us. We have also helped to establish this framework. We know that this is about whether national security or public order is at stake. We have assessed that four times in substance. We have done this carefully each time. Each time we have come to the conclusion that national security and public order are not at stake. We believe that we cannot do this within the European framework. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u96	I would nevertheless like the government to look at how the Polish Government has applied a similar procedure, even though it is not a matter of vital infrastructure or security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u97	I don't know what the Polish case is like. I do not know what the possible connection is with the case we are talking about. But if Mrs Vos asks me to look into a case and inform the Chamber about it, I would be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u98	Should that ultimately affect this case, I would like to inform the Minister that we, the Netherlands, should not be the goodest in the European class, and certainly not in view of the arguments put forward by Mrs Gesthuizen in her second term. In Belgium, everything can be protected. We get an uneven playing field and PostNL is ultimately the child of the account. I believe that the House's motion demands the utmost from the Minister. We ask him to see what else he can do. If necessary, European legislation needs to be adapted. At least we are making this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u99	Adapting European legislation is a circus that will have no impact whatsoever on the issue that is currently under way. I ask the Chamber to be careful to pretend that we are a bunch of dumbasses here in the Netherlands who are constantly trying to be the best boy in the class and who let themselves eat the cheese from the bread. The Netherlands has the most competitive economy in the world. The Netherlands currently has an average of 2.5 times Europe's growth. The Netherlands has a very strong export position. The Netherlands is also investing heavily in the future. I think we're doing a lot of good. The Court might ask whether the way in which we have dealt with the privatisation of companies has not been a substantial contribution to that Dutch success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u100	Mrs Gesthuizen, but only if we avoid a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u101	Sure. I find it outrageous that the Minister has dared to say this, as if he has not seen how many people have suffered in recent years from, among other things, the odious liberalization drive of this cabinet and previous cabinets, which has caused them to lose their jobs. In view of the Minister's commitment to Mr Vos that he will continue to investigate the issue in Poland, I also take my motion. I would first like to ask you, Mr President, whether you would like to organise a vote on this motion on Thursday, but I am now holding the motion because I can imagine that the opinion of colleagues here depends on the outcome of the Minister's investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u102	That's the first motion, the motion in part No. 126 for the sake of clarity. Mrs. Fox agrees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u103	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u104	At the request of Mrs Gesthuizen, I propose her motion (29502, No. 126). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u105	Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 128.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u106	I would like to put it to the vote on Thursday, because then we will be voting on the Tax Plan anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u107	Yes, I know, but that doesn't automatically mean we're going to vote on everything. I'll try to promote that. I don't have much influence on it myself, but we're gonna take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u108	The same applies to the motion tabled by me in respect of item No. 129.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u109	We're gonna try to do that seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u110	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Gesthuizen mentioned what I said about privatisation. I find it unheard of what Mrs Gesthuizen says about this, as if the privatisation that has been carried out in the Netherlands had turned out to be negative for Dutch society as a whole. I am convinced that this is not the case and that these have been careful processes that have contributed to the competitive strength of the Netherlands. We all benefit from that now. The number of jobs is currently growing faster than in ten years. Last year, 125,000 jobs were added. Unemployment is falling rapidly. I think this is the result of a careful policy across the board. This has included careful and responsible privatisation on parts. I would like to reply to the questions put by Mrs Koşer Kaya and Mr Bosma. Ms Koşer Kaya wondered how the consequences of this conditional and unsolicited bid from PostNL on competition, from PostNL, would be looked at. She mentioned several markets. If this offer is followed up, the European Commission must have an opinion on it. It is a large-scale merger, which is cross-border. The European Commission must assess this. She'll look into the matter carefully. Mrs Koşer Kaya's questions will be included. Mrs Koşer Kaya wondered whether the acquisition of a private company by a state company was permitted. The answer is yes, you can. She also wondered about the governance of this issue. There are indications of possible governance by the company bpost in the letter they sent PostNL, I understand. A view has been expressed on this point by the board of directors and the supervisory board of PostNL. That is what can be said about this at the moment, both from bpost and from PostNL.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u111	I am also aware of the fact that a public company can take over a private company, I can assure the Minister. The point is a level playing field. A state's got a big finger in the mouth of a government agency. For a private company, it could be negative in terms of competition, innovation or development. This isn't the first time, and it won't be the last time. Can the Minister send a letter to the Chamber stating exactly what this means for competition and governance, how to do this better and whether you should not look closely at ensuring the level playing field for the future and find out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u112	No, I wouldn't want to write a letter about that, even because this is something that occurs in many forms. We have a 100% state-owned company TenneT and a 100% state-owned company Gasunie, which made large purchases in Germany, for example. They thus influence the functioning of the German market. There are all kinds of variants in which this plays. There's no point in just writing a letter about that. What is relevant in the matter now before us has been discussed with each other. The information the Chamber asked for, I gave it to the Chamber. I have nothing else to add at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u113	All the more reason to map the competitive position very well and therefore to map out the commitment to governance very well, so that you do not end up in a situation where the acquiring public body has a far too high governance position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u114	I do not know what Mrs Koşer Kaya means by the commitment to governance. I know that all kinds of variants are possible, for example private companies that take over state-owned companies. That's what's gonna happen. It also happens that state companies take over private companies and that Dutch companies in Germany and other countries take over companies. Other countries also do things in the Netherlands. If a review is to be carried out, it will be done by the European Commission. If the scale is such that the ACM has to carry out a review, the ACM shall do so. If there are special circumstances, as we now believe there are with regard to PostNL and bpost, then we can talk about them in the Chamber, as we are doing now. In addition: I do not see the added value of sending letters. Mr Bosma has asked whether the influence of the Belgian government on bpost can be as great as it is at present. It's okay. There is no European rule that stands in the way of that. That's just something that can be done. Mr Bosma also asked to what extent protection can or cannot be protected. I think that is the discussion we have had with each other. A number of variants have been raised by the Chamber by way of motion, and I have said in one case that this needs to be examined in greater detail. I will. I have said that, in general terms, the protection we are now seeking to include in a legislative proposal specifically aimed at the telecoms market should not, in my opinion, also cover and may relate to the postal market. The Chamber has asked me to keep her informed of how I intend to do that. The House's interest in this subject is very clear to me. This is also apparent from the statements made on this subject during the debate and, possibly, in the case of a motion for a resolution. This means that I will report on the relevant developments to the Chamber so that the Court can have an opinion on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u115	One last short, factual question, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u116	My question about the protection structure was essentially about whether the Belgians have an unjustified protection structure. I asked if the Minister could point that out. That has been in the media in the past. In his letter of July, the Minister did not make it very clear that there is such a structure. I am now asking him, in the context of moving insight, how he looks at the way in which the Belgians organized it. Is there any construction that shouldn't be possible? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u117	I don't know about the Belgian protection structure. I do know that the Belgian State currently holds 51% of the shares. Then as a state you may not have a construction but you do have the shares and so you can actually put the case into your hands. Mr Bosma is probably referring to a situation in which there is a company in which the Belgian State does not have the majority of the shares and he wants to know if there is anything to protect it in Belgium. I don't know. I will see if there is any interesting information to be gathered by the Chamber. I will then possibly add it to one of the other information facilities that I will come to the Chamber with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u118	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
