ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u1	I would like to welcome the people in the public gallery. I assume you left your boots at home, except for Mr. Graus, I saw. I understand that this debate means a lot to you emotionally, but you are not supposed to show in any way that you agree or disagree with anything. I therefore hope that we will be able to conduct this debate in an orderly manner. I can see Mr Grashoff at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make the following point of order. We are at the beginning of an extremely important debate. It's 7:30 in the evening. We want to give this debate room; it must be conducted properly and carefully. A small calculation indicates that the first term of the Chamber alone will last until about twelve hours tonight. That means, if we want to finish the whole debate, it's gonna take him an hour or three tonight. Perhaps we can do that to ourselves, but I do not think it is a choice, either for the quality of the debate or for the people who want to follow the debate and who in this way force excessive night work. I would therefore like to propose that only the first term of the Chamber be used and that the rest of the debate be scheduled for next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u3	A lot of people want clarity. Today there are a lot of people in the public gallery who are coming to see this debate. We must retain this derogation, so we must conclude this debate this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u4	No support for postponement; this evening's debate. It keeps us sharp to be short, but above all concise. Again, no delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u5	Nor, for my part, is there any support for postponement. I think that the dairy farmers simply deserve clarity, and that is why we need to have the debate today. I think that some of those who follow the debate will just go into the milk well afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u6	No support, and I'll sign for three o'clock tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u7	This debate has long been awaited. It must be fed tonight and if necessary tonight. I think clarity is important and I do not support the proposal for postponement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u8	It's pretty clear to me. You can look at it differently. The argument was also that otherwise the people in the public gallery would not be able to follow the debate. They must, of course, remain seated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u9	At first I had a tendency to support the proposal, because it is a sympathetic proposal, for everyone here in the Chamber and also for the people in the public gallery. But I've talked to a lot of farmers and those people are used to doing it with very little sleep. It's always hard work and few hours of sleep. That's why I choose to move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u10	You brought your pajamas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u11	Anyone who pretends to be clear tonight is fooling farmers right now, even before the debate begins. I'd say care goes, especially now, for everything. I would therefore like to propose that the first deadline be set tonight. I seriously want a response from the Secretary of State to everything we have to say, including in the interests of farmers. So we would prefer to proceed carefully next week with the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u12	A majority in the Chamber, and I think the public too, wants the debate to take place tonight. I am certainly not going to oppose this, but I do insist that the debate be conducted carefully, that is to say that we also have time. It should not be the case that, because of the lateness of the debate, we cannot simply have an orderly and good debate. I'd like to emphasize that. And then we just go to work cheerful and fluks, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u13	Mr Grashoff, you have no majority in favour of your order. The Secretary of State, whom I would like to welcome, has asked me to make a brief procedural comment before the debate. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u14	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. This has to do with the fact that you will receive a letter from me during this debate. I thought it would be nice to inform you about that in advance. Many dairy farmers are in uncertainty about their future, but unfortunately there are also many poultry farmers in the Netherlands who are currently experiencing uncertain times. The highly pathogenic H5N8 avian influenza virus was found in several European countries in November in wild water birds and poultry holdings. The Netherlands has not been spared either. I have previously mentioned wild infected birds at a hobby farmer in Den Oever and an animal park in Rotterdam. Last Saturday, I informed you by letter that, unfortunately, highly pathogenic avian influenza was also detected at a duck farm in Biddinghuizen, in the Flevopolder. In addition to all the sites of the infected farms, a farm in the 1 kilometre area of Biddinghuizen has been cleared. Unfortunately, today I have to tell you that highly pathogenic avian influenza has again been detected in two duck farms in the same area. Both farms are located in the 3 km area around the outbreak found last Saturday. Once again, therefore, in accordance with European rules, we are re-establishing the 3 and 10 km zones. They largely overlap the areas set up on Saturday. Let me say that both the poultry sector and myself find these developments very worrying. The risks of further dissemination remain high. Tonight I will introduce a number of new measures to prevent the spread and introduction of ducks and turkey farms. Firstly, measures to reduce the risks of straw storage on the yard of duck farms and the transport of this straw to the stable, secondly, measures to allow the transport of ducks or turkeys to the slaughterhouse only after a clinical inspection and thirdly, measures to ensure that transport to or from holdings with ducks and turkeys is carried out directly and subject to compliance with the hygiene protocol. These measures are all designed to prevent further spread of the virus as far as possible. It is also important to ensure that the poultry sector is vigilant and that the measures imposed are properly implemented. The NVWA supervises this. So you will receive a letter about this in the course of this evening. I thought it would be appropriate to give you an oral statement on this matter. We are talking about the same spokesmen who are sitting here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u15	Thank you. It's a nasty announcement. Thank you for sharing this with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u16	Mr. Chairman. That was a sad announcement. I thank the Secretary of State for informing us about this. I think I speak on behalf of all my fellow Members when I say that we are very sorry for the people who have to do the work and that we very much hope that it will be allowed to continue. The public gallery is full. No one's missed that. That's not a good sign. These farmers should be either with their families or working on their farms. Of course, they're here for a reason. And: they are welcome. It does indicate that the discontent is great. How can it be that we have a sector to be proud of, when costs are constantly rising through government policies, there are increasing rules, prices are under pressure, the margin is falling and there is now a bill that only leads to high costs and large discounts, while the real problem, why it should be, so water quality, is not being solved? I will start with the package for 2017. Brussels wants us to come under the phosphate ceiling in 2017 and the Secretary of State has allowed it to come this far. I'll tell you more about that later. We can't lose the derogation. That is not in the interests of the sector. So, on behalf of the SGP, too, I say that we have little choice but to support this plan in general. With regard to the milk reduction plan, I would like to raise three major questions. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State on that. One: dairy companies disagree. Doesn't that lead to problems in implementation? Two: it is very uncertain whether it is legally sustainable. Will the Secretary of State take care of any claims? I'm afraid of unpleasant surprises. Three: there is no regulation for troubles. Why not? Why didn't the Secretary of State choose to simply introduce the system of rights in 2017 and not make it negotiable for one year? In my view, it could be done according to the Brussels rules, with a wide-ranging bottleneck regime. I'll get back to you on that. Then there is no need for the milk reduction measure at all. Will the Secretary of State at least send analyses to the Chamber for the votes with advantages and disadvantages, opportunities and risks of both this option and the milk reduction trail? In any case, we need to work on the proposed stopper regime and the transport track. Does the Secretary of State see any reason to discuss this with the pig sector as well? Then I come to the most important thing this evening, the phosphate rights, the law ahead. The SGP is against this law if it is not amended. That is why we first have three points to make clear how we are making our assessment. One is that all of us should be concerned with water quality, and phosphate rights do not improve anything about it. In large parts of the Netherlands there are no problems with water quality due to fertilization. I would say: take action on those plots where there really is a problem. Align the derogation accordingly. Take such a package to Brussels, and very quickly. Otherwise, whatever you take here tonight or Tuesday at the votes, you can forget about the derogation and you won't have any game space. The second focal point is to do justice to the diversity of dairy farming. I think that is what many people think, and I hope that we should at least prevent companies from playing against each other and certain companies from being cornered. Every dairy farmer wants to make the best of his farm; each in its own context. One can easily get grounded, the other can't. One is intensive, the other extensive and another organic. One invests in an innovative sustainable stable, the other invests in more land, but all of them have done what they have done legally until 2 July 2015. I don't think you can and should punish them for that. I refer specifically to the issue of ground-boundity. He's in the news a lot. There's no such thing as right or wrong as far as I'm concerned. For example, there are many companies that use land from companies in the area. That's what I think is ground-bound. It's about the regional cycle, isn't it? It can't be that companies that take their raw materials out of the area are suddenly the victims. How does the Secretary of State view that? The third pivot is the use of the cabinet. I believe that this Secretary of State should have travelled the European capitals himself over the past year to defend the interests of our dairy farming. This has not been done at all enough. Has this Secretary of State already shown the European Commission that abolishing the derogation is bad for the environment and for the climate? No one wins with that. What has the Secretary of State done since he stepped in? Who did he talk to about this? Why didn't he go to Europe with a total package? Looking ahead: will all those concerned, including Prime Minister Rutte, be proactive in the coming months in order to maintain the derogation and defend the interests of our dairy farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u17	I held back for almost five minutes; I got annoyed in the first five seconds. Surely the Secretary of State has done nothing but implement the law the SGP voted for? The Secretary of State has explained to the Chamber, and the SGP knows what the rules are for the derogation? The Animal Party doesn't exonerate the Secretary of State because he should've said "this is impossible and we're in big trouble," but the SGP was just for that, wasn't it? You have manure on your hands, Mr Dijkgraaf, large amounts of manure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u18	That is the difference between Mrs Ouwehand and me, I come in the manure sheds and I walk through that manure in my boots. If it is necessary, I do have manure in my hands, while Mrs Ouwehand is standing here with clean hands, she may think. What we agreed at the time, we agreed. We never denied that. However, we have only said that a great deal has happened since we made these agreements in 2003. I'll get back to you on that. There was every reason to discuss the following questions with Brussels after 2 July 2015. What do we do? How do we count? How do we deal with the export of phosphate to low-phosphate countries? Why don't we take care of the real problem? That real problem is not phosphate, Mrs Ouwehand. The real problem is water quality. As far as I am concerned, there was every reason to talk about this before 2 July 2015. If Mrs Ouwehand were to sign on a ticket from the Netherlands where there are problems with water quality, and she would then put the numbers of cows on it, she would see that those two things are not for a meter. We are here introducing a law that costs €500,000 per average company while not solving any environmental problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u19	This is a nice diversion. But the warnings that it was not wise to release the milk quota...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u20	Ah, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u21	... without linking a production restriction to it, has been given for a long time. The SGP has rejected motions on this matter. The SGP did ask questions. The SGP asked: is that wise? But that party has never said: we must regulate this production restriction in good time. Today is December 1, 2016. On December 1, 2010, the Animal Party already said that, in a motion. The SGP was against it. The SGP has deliberately and knowingly placed this sector in an impossible position. The SGP willingly and knowingly took the risk that what happened would happen. It's fine to call the Secretary of State to account. It's our role to do that. But the SGP is as responsible for this as the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u22	Mrs Ouwehand is talking about history forgery. I can still see myself, together with Mr Geurts, sitting in a room on the ground floor of this building. There we asked Secretary of State Dijksma very critical questions. Is it all right to abolish that milk quota? Doesn't that lead to major problems and unwanted growth? We have encouraged the Secretary of State to draw up a plan B, which should be up to you in case things go wrong. This cabinet said it's not necessary. This cabinet said that, not the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u24	What does the SGP think of this Phosphate Act? It won't surprise anyone that we don't like the law as it stands. That is why we have tabled amendments. The SGP is constructive. So we are also trying to put forward proposals on how it can be done. If this and some of the amendments tabled by my fellow Members succeed, and if the generic discount goes off the table, we will certainly support the law. The SGP is not against this law in principle. Mr President, time has passed during the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u25	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u26	Okay. In the first place, the SGP wants more phosphate space, in order to deal with more problems, for example companies that had empty stables on 2 July 2015 and are now in danger of falling apart. The Secretary of State doesn't do much for this. Also more phosphate space is needed to avoid a generic discount. Organic and fully land-based farms without surplus manure, and farms which have not grown at all in recent years, should not be reduced in our view. But that should not be at the expense of regular companies. It is also very much the question whether expropriation by discount can legally be accepted. The Secretary of State hasn't even carried out an expropriation test yet. You can't cut companies short if there's no trouble. In this proposal, the discount goes on, even if we are well below the phosphate ceiling. As far as we are concerned, the generic discount must be removed. Then where does the SGP get that phosphate chamber? I see possibilities to create 10 million kilos of space. I will outline these possibilities after Mr Graus's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u27	My party has been the only party against suffocating European laws and regulations since 2006, thus also against Natura 2000. All parties voted in favour, except the PVV. I'd like to ask Professor Dijkgraaf the following question. We know that in the future we will face a shortage of phosphates. The Chinese will no longer supply us with phosphates, because they will say: their own people first. The Moroccan mines are exhausted. Phosphate is needed to extract oxygen; a primary life requirement. So we need phosphates. So why not throw that whole phosphate right system in the trash?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u28	Ideally, I would. If you go back to where the problem comes from, you get to the water quality. If you solve that problem, you don't really need phosphate rights at all. I am so realistic that, given the history and the fact that there is not enough negotiation with Brussels, I think that you will need politics to get Brussels to grant that derogation. Quite frankly, that is more practical politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u29	We are members of the House of Representatives of the States-General. There's a secretary of state over there. We need to get out of the role of victim. We just need to get the fist on the table. We must send that message to the Secretary of State. That's what I'm asking Professor Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u30	I couldn't agree more. Not enough has happened lately. Not enough has been done with the fist, not enough has been negotiated. I said there's room for an extra 10 million kilos, so you don't need a generic discount and you have room for trouble. That's four things. One, raise the dairy phosphate ceiling. The Secretary of State assumes the dairy phosphate ceiling of 84.9 million kilos. But that won't be necessary. Figures show that this year's category of "other sectors" produces about 3 million kilos less phosphate than in 2002. Then that hole gets bigger rather than smaller. If the Secretary of State's plan continues, we would be 3 million kilos below the phosphate ceiling in 2018. That won't be necessary. Is the Secretary of State going to use this phosphate room for dairy farming? Two: pig rights. The SGP has already indicated earlier that it would be good to convert 5% to 10% of pig rights into phosphate rights by means of a buying-in or tender scheme. You can say that dairy farming has to solve its own problems, but I think that is shortsighted. Don't forget that many pig farmers want to stop now, but they can't. I'm asking the Secretary of State to make a choice on this point. Three: netting. The Secretary of State must ensure that from 2018 he will also be given more phosphate space from Brussels. Now settle the ceiling with the phosphate grains we export to low-phosphate countries. It is now at least 5 million kilos. Countries in Eastern Europe, for example, are jumping for phosphate. At European level, too, a great deal of attention is paid to global demand. I have tabled an amendment to strengthen this commitment. Further make sure that we do not have to take temporary phosphate peaks with growth again. Four: the SGP wants more phosphate space by allowing mixed farms to surrender pig rights or poultry rights and to keep more dairy cows. I have also tabled an amendment to this effect. That extra space must remain in business, just like the phosphate bank. In short: provide more phosphate space, drop the generic discount and ensure a wide bottleneck control. Then we can help the people who built the stables, which were not full on July 2, 2015. It's possible, but does the Secretary of State want it? The second important point is the end date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u31	I have heard Mr Dijkgraaf say a lot of sensible things; really only sensible things. I just agree with him. I shall try to indicate what Mr Dijkgraaf is proposing now, including in the gallery. I'm comparing the situation in dairy farming with a fire. Mr. Dijkgraaf points to the showroom, where there's a fire truck. That fire truck has no type approval, no license plate, no crew and no water. When does Mr Dijkgraaf think that this car will be put out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u32	I had four fire trucks. One is in the showroom and must be approved by Brussels. That's the netting. Of the other three, the keys are in the Secretary of State's pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u33	I'll be back on that key, but it'll be another time. I remember that in April 2014 the CDA Group opposed the outcome of the derogation negotiation. We had in mind that the European Commission sets the targets, but that the way a national competence is. We had a request to continue the negotiations on the 2014-2017 derogation period with the new Commission. Surprise: The SGP voted against. How are you now pleading to break the derogation negotiations, Mr Dijkgraaf? After all, you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u34	I am concerned about the new derogation. It is always interesting that colleagues have historical considerations. That is all very well, but I am concerned about the situation of 2 July 2015, when it turned out that we had a huge problem for this sector. Then you're gonna make a package, right? I will ask Mr Geurts later, because it is not good to ask a counter-question now. If the three keys are in the State Secretary's pocket, is Mr Geurts going to vote in favour of the amendments? That is not what we need these negotiations with Brussels for, and that is what we will decide ourselves, with Mr Graus, who is undoubtedly in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u35	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u36	I'll be on the end date. Secondly, we want the phosphate rights system to be abolished in principle by 2023. Not an infinite system. Analyses show that we have no structural problem at all. See the PBL report. Even without phosphate rights, phosphate production would return to below the ceiling after 2020. The system of rights can be removed from the table by 2023 at the latest, if you put on the table a solid overall package of area-oriented measures to improve water quality, with a good analysis of phosphate production in the longer term, with growth limits through soil-basedness and a processing obligation. Great advantage of an end date is that it becomes much cheaper. The price is getting lower, because it is the net present value of all those years and it is now only a very limited period. Moreover, it becomes tax deductible. See the amendment I have tabled on this. There are a number of bottlenecks. Several companies have been offering young cattle in 2015 and can whistle at these rights by the single date of 2 July. That's just not fair. I think the Secretary of State's legal argument is weak. The allocation of rights should always be based on a representative picture of phosphate production. That is not the case here. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to take care of this after all. Another bottleneck is the following. The Secretary of State wants to take away rights from the generic discount. If he wants to go through with the discount, why don't he just leave them in the freezer on the farmyard? Entrepreneurs will then be able to re-use these rights as soon as possible. So don't permanently abolish it. Why would you do that? You could be under the phosphate ceiling for the next year, right? You'll only have to turn in one year and resurrect them. Another amendment. The following bottleneck, or at least possible bottleneck: the KringloopWijzer. In addition, companies can show that in practice they produce less phosphate per cow. We have to count that. This gives the companies the necessary air to carry on well. Is this Secretary of State gonna take care of that? I'm rushing to the Law on Ground-Bound Growth. We support that law. I still have two points. First of all, I would like dairy farmers who use farmland in the area for fodder farming and manure disposal to be allowed to count this land for their land density. This is the subject of a wonderful amendment by CDA and Christian Union which we will certainly support. Secondly, I have taken the opportunity to table an amendment on administrative fines. We see too often that entrepreneurs who lose the derogation due to unintentional administrative errors, for example, are subject to a huge fine. This will only happen more often, now that there are also ground-based requirements. It has to do with the fact that the law provides that a fixed fine is to be imposed per kilogram of phosphate or nitrogen that has been broken. An entrepreneur has to wait and see if the total fine after submitting an objection is adjusted downwards. That's not how we treat entrepreneurs. They are entitled to fair fines. It shouldn't be necessary to enforce this through a court of law. The Secretary of State refuses to carry out an approved motion. That's impossible, isn't it? So we have tabled an amendment which, like the motion, will undoubtedly receive the broad support of this Chamber. Finally. This Secretary of State is on the wrong track. His plans are going to cost many family businesses unnecessarily. Once again, abolish the system of rights by 2023. Make work of an overall package in which improvement of water quality and soil density is paramount. Guarantee more phosphate space. Make sure there's a wide-ranging problem regulation. Keep the generic discount out of the door. And, of course, no phosphate rights if the derogation doesn't go through. It's time for the farmer, it's time. Anyone who claims here that all of these points require the agreement of Brussels should take a look at reality. Many of these things can be decided on our own, and for those other things the Secretary of State will, as far as I am concerned, be permanently in Brussels or in the other capitals of Europe if necessary. This will require lobbying, in order to have a real future for dairy farming, because that is what they deserve in that sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u37	I heard the Secretary of State say...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u38	Hey, Mrs. Lodders is already working on the new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u39	That was a small slip. I heard Mr Dijkgraaf say: no derogation means no phosphate rights. I therefore assume that Mr Dijkgraaf's party, the SGP, will support my amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u40	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u41	Thank you. That's important. Mr Dijkgraaf mentioned a number of sympathetic solutions to the question of how we should proceed in the coming period. Will Mr Dijkgraaf maintain these sympathetic solutions at all costs and thereby risk a possible derogation? If we come to the conclusion this evening or if it proves that the derogation is being threatened, I know that Mr Dijkgraaf does not feel the same way, but neither of us are in Brussels at the talks, will he stick to these solutions and to the amendments as he has tabled them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u42	I didn't hear Mrs Lodder mention any substance that couldn't be. I have said that the system of rights will be abolished by 2023. You can just decide that as the Netherlands. This is also beyond the period of the new derogation. I said work on the overall package. That's up to us. I said work on that water quality. Brussels will only be pleased with that. I said guarantee more phosphate space. For one piece, Brussels is needed, but for three quarters you can do it yourself. Then you can do much better and keep that generic discount out of the door. I therefore only expect the support of Mrs Lodders for my amendments. I don't know what she might have against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u43	Mr Dijkgraaf is well aware that a number of proposals he has made do not lead to such a reduction in 2017 that we are therefore below the phosphate ceiling. Mr Dijkgraaf referred to a number of measures concerning 2023. He mentioned that part of the phosphate room is available in pig farming. However, pig farming is not at all involved in this law and I would not like to change the rights in it. This does not lead to the effects we need to get below that phosphate ceiling in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u44	With all due respect, Mrs Lodder was already not paying attention during the second minute, because I simply said that I support the 2017 package. There is no difference between Mrs Lodder's and yours truly. I support that. At that point, we have exactly the same approach. As far as I am concerned, this law must be adopted as soon as possible. We are simply putting forward very concrete proposals, which concern improvements for the whole dairy farming sector and which do not call the derogation into question. I cannot understand why anyone is against it, unless it is perhaps higher politics and one holds the other prisoner. But if you judged the amendments on content, you would support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u45	Mr. Chairman. Normally, my colleague Graus has predictive powers. In this case, everyone knew, except for the VVD and the cabinet, that when you release milk quotas, you have to agree on the front that you are not growing larger or harder than the amount of land you have before. When releasing the milk quota came the Act responsible growth dairy farming. My group was co-signatory of amendments designed to preserve the soil-based nature of agriculture and to oblige grazing. That was not very successful, because the government discouraged the amendments. That is why my first question is how the Secretary of State looks back on the judgments of that time. Will he look more generously at future-oriented sustainable initiatives from the Chamber today? If not, I fear we will have a major crisis in the dairy sector in a few years' time. I'd like to avoid it. Our farmers are crying out for security. I'd like to give it to them. I wonder how many boots the Secretary of State has received in the meantime. The signal from the farmers, which was issued again today when the petition and the boots were handed over, was loud and clear. First of all, I'm going into the process. The history of this law is very messy. Clumsy, I'd almost say. For a long time, dairy farmers didn't know who they could go to the Ministry to report their troubles. They wanted to ensure that their situation was not overlooked. Why couldn't we do this directly? Why was it the Chamber that had to ask who the farmers could go to? Why did it have to be through industry representatives? That's not from this time of year, is it? The excess stairs came recently, when the Secretary of State suddenly announced that the European Commission did not agree with the proposed phosphate rights system. At first the plan was sent to the Chamber very late and there was no green light from Europe. Did the Secretary of State have a strategy in Brussels at all? When did he really get involved in this process? At least it doesn't deserve a beauty prize. Why didn't the Secretary of State see this judgment coming? The Commission's conclusion does not seem entirely illogical. The introduction of phosphate rights to achieve environmental objectives gives Dutch dairy farmers a competitive advantage over other Europeans. Surely it cannot be that no one in the Ministry provided this explanation from the Commission? When was this option first proposed? At what level was that? Why didn't anything happen to it? Where would the sector have been if the reduction of phosphate production had already started on 2 July? Would the package of measures that is now coming have been superfluous? Could it have been smoother? Could we have achieved the same thing with less intervention? What about the 23 million euros of crisis money? That money now seems to go entirely to agriculture, but wasn't that also meant for pig farming? Where's the extra money coming from? How exactly does this contribute to competitive and sustainable agriculture? I'm here to talk about the content of the law. There will be painful choices to be made. We'd have seen it differently, too. Many companies will have to shrink or go deep into the pocket to obtain sufficient rights for the current size of business. For me, one principle is paramount: the causer pays. The excess of the phosphate ceiling is mainly due to the non-land-based holdings. They grew too fast, while they couldn't plant the manure on their own soil. If we want to promote a natural balance and close the loops, we need to promote soil cohesion and grazing. That must also be reflected in this proposal. That is why, together with Mrs Dik-Faber, I tabled an amendment to exclude land-based companies from the generic discount. Reliving land-based businesses is a hard requirement for me. Earlier, the Secretary of State indicated that he could not guarantee that. The generic skimming rate could be up to 8 from him. But why? Didn't he also want to skim 10% when transferring businesses? Why should a viable business be transferred, but not on initial rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u46	Mrs Koşer Kaya is in favour of avoiding land-based livestock farming, and I very much agree with her. My commitment will also be strongly focused on this. There are many amendments to amend the law on this point. Let's hope we can make a move on that. At the same time, there is a legislative proposal that will start on 1 January 2018. In 2017, we will have to meet the phosphate ceiling. This means that this will be done on the basis of the sectoral agreement now before us. That sector agreement does not spare land-based companies. How does Mrs Koşer Kaya feel about that? Does she agree with me that we should put that right here tonight and that the Secretary of State should be on the move to take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u47	That's a nice question, because I had one, too. I will pass this on to the Secretary of State, because it is important to know exactly what is going on with that. I want to be able to make a good assessment of this, but I cannot do that for the time being. One thing is certain for me, namely that we will have to do it together if we want to succeed, even in 2017. It's five to twelve, and I want to keep that derogation. Otherwise, we're totally screwed, and that could go up to 1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u48	Mrs Koşer Kaya and I agree on maintaining the derogation. At the same time, this afternoon, I asked the Secretary of State for work to send a note very quickly, because there were signs that the sector agreement would be amended. We then received a nice note, very short and very easy to read. It says that it's a rumor, that it's not official and that we're just being sent into the woods. There is therefore no change to the sectoral agreement at the moment. That's what the letter says in so many words. Does Mrs Koşer Kaya agree with me that this is unacceptable and that we really need to send a very clear message to the Secretary of State on that point tonight if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u49	I think, above all, that we should keep this debate open. We are all mature MPs and these are questions that Mr Grashoff is asking. I've also asked the Secretary of State questions, and we'll get an answer to that later. Then we all make up our minds. That's how it's supposed to work and that's how it works. Again, I think it is important that 2017 should also be resolved jointly. I want us to feel that responsibility here, too. Again, if we don't, the risk is many times greater. I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u50	D66 makes a number of proposals that weaken the bill a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u51	"Improving," I'd say!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u52	Weaken the badness of it. In itself I am positive about that, but what it is about D66 is that she is easily dragged along by the liberal talk of the VVD. D66 also maintained for a long time that abolishing the milk quota was simply fine. My question is therefore whether she is finally moving to the responsible side. We are also proposing that organic farmers should be spared and that land-boundness should really be enforced. Will D66 support that, or does she think this repair is good enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u53	Organic farmers are also covered by the term "ground-based" because they usually work on land, so I wouldn't want to create a contradiction here. The abandonment of milk quotas was not the problem, but we tabled amendments together, in which we said it was fine to let go of the milk quota, but to ensure that there was no growth if there was no country on the other side. When you buy cows, you have to turn land against them, so you can drive out the manure on them. The problem was that the VVD kept the PvdA in check and those amendments did not get through. We sometimes differ, because we look very closely at what is possible and how we can take steps forward, while you often argue for everything to be brought back to the old. I'm not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u54	D66 always wants to serve two gentlemen; on the one hand a liberal profile and on the other green.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u55	Common sense is that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u56	In this case, that often goes wrong. We would have liked to have counted D66 on our side, when we said from 2010 that there should be something against it, if the milk quota were to expire in 2015. Now I want D66 to choose that sustainable profile. The way in which land binding is defined in the Act responsible growth dairy farming and in this bill, is not ground bound. You can expand if you have a megastal somewhere in North Holland and have bought some lily fields in Drenthe where you drive out your manure. Ground-bound must really be ground-bound. Organic farmers must be spared. Will D66 participate in repairing these areas or does she think her own proposal is good enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u57	I haven't even finished my input or any conclusions have been drawn. I think that's very short. The Secretary of State will answer those questions, which will undoubtedly be asked by you. The problem was not that the milk quota was released, as you know when you use your common sense, but that it was not agreed at the front that one could not just grow, but that this should be ground-bound. That's where we moved in together. That makes D66 so great; that we keep thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u59	Mr. Chairman. I've been thinking about whether there might be a shortcut in the proposal when it comes to transfer. A dairy farmer who wants to avoid future skimming and thereby depreciation of his farm is, in my opinion, a good idea to convert it quickly to a legal person. In the case of sale, the legal person does not have to change, but only the ownership or management of that legal person. In the written round, the Secretary of State had no idea to what extent this had occurred. Is that because it's not happening or because the Ministry has no idea? It's important to follow this closely. The phosphate bank, with which we pursue sustainable goals, depends on the skimming on transfer for filling. Can I trust that the Secretary of State will follow or use this shortcut, that he will inform the Chamber of the first signs of this and, if necessary, take additional measures? Today, the Law on land-based growth of dairy farming is also on the agenda. That title may be somewhat misleading. Indeed, under this system, growth can be partly absorbed by manure processing without soil? In conjunction with the phosphate rights system, I fear that farmers will buy cows instead of land. Weedgang will be under pressure in no time. That is why I have tabled an amendment which simply regulates the purchase of phosphate rights, which also requires sufficient land for the additional fertilisers to be disposed of. With each extension, the dairy farmer becomes more land bound. I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. How does he look at my amendment? Is the Law on land-based growth of dairy farming still necessary at all? For a dairy farmer there is another way to grow his farm: to call on the Phosphate Bank. The law says almost nothing about that, by the way. It merely states that exemptions can be granted to promote land-basedness, to promote sustainability and animal welfare or to encourage young farmers in the Netherlands. The law is mainly about pruning while this element is about blooming. That is why I want Parliament to be able to influence its final impact. That is why I am putting it out of my mind. Forty-seven. Finally. There is little left for me but to wish the Secretary of State success for the time to come. 'Cause that's what he's gonna need. I told you, it's five to twelve. If we want to maintain the derogation, we must act quickly. In order to convince the Commission that the package of measures is sufficient, steps must now be taken quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u60	I hear Mrs Koşer Kaya making a warm plea for land-based farming. We are very much in agreement on this. The Secretary of State also said and wrote that he would like to argue in Brussels for a higher phosphate ceiling. We have discussed this in detail. I have tabled a motion with the Animal Party on this matter. The Secretary of State was asked not to argue for a higher phosphate ceiling. After all, this is contrary to ground-boundness. That motion was not supported by D66. Can Mrs. Koşer Kaya tell me what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u61	I understand the question very well. You can have a discussion to know the ins and out to then have a discussion on that basis and then GroenLinks always chooses "something shouldn't." The world doesn't change, especially for the better, if you're not willing to have a discussion on a subject so you know exactly what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u62	I don't understand this answer at all. I hear all kinds of detours, but this answer simply does not address the question. I think one plus one is two: a higher phosphate ceiling is not synchronised with more ground-boundness. Then the soil is the measure and not the phosphate ceiling. That's too high. Can Mrs Koşer Kaya explain to me how, on the one hand, she is in favour of more ground-boundness on the other hand, we agree on this, but on the other hand, she does not seem to be responsible for the consequence, namely not arguing for a higher phosphate ceiling? I just don't think that's consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u63	I don't see a higher phosphate ceiling that easily either, but I do want to start the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u64	Mrs Koşer Kaya mentioned the biofarmers. The legislative proposal now before us means that a number of biofarmers are actually excluded by the rules of the Fertilisers Act. Does D66 like the SP think this shouldn't be? I have tabled an amendment aimed at protecting organic farmers and giving them some room. That gives you 0.2 million extra phosphate space. Is D66 going to support that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u65	That is a very interesting amendment. I've also said before that I'm open to that. I think that the Secretary of State will indicate in a moment whether that amendment has exactly the result that Mr Van Gerven is aiming at. Then we can talk about this again. I dare say that I have an answer to his question. Again, I think it is a very interesting amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u66	Good. We're all gonna see that at a later date. I would like to return to the motion tabled by the SP, GroenLinks and D66 on the relief and advance of organic farmers. That motion should be carried out. That's what we're all here for. This motion means, among other things, that organic farmers should not be the victims of the Phosphate Act. The definition of "groundboundness" is not now one-to-one in line with the definition of "organic farmer." 10% of organic farmers would be the victims. Does D66 agree that this should be resolved and repaired in the final bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u67	Of course, that motion has not been filed for nothing. It is an important motion and it must also be carried out. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u68	I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber. I see she has hairdressers with her, too. They are the same as Mr Graus's, only a smaller size.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u69	Sure. Just a size smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u70	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u71	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago I was in the IJsselhallen, where the Secretary of State was talking to hundreds of dairy farmers. The signal was clear: the dairy farmers feel cheated and abandoned, because maintaining the derogation is still uncertain. This puts the future of many family farms and of the entire dairy farming in our beautiful country at stake. This is very worrying and should not happen, firstly because of the importance of many families, but also because of the importance of the Dutch dairy sector as a whole. Last few weeks I received dozens, if not hundreds of emails from dairy farmers from all over the country. I've read them all and I'm going to answer them all. There's Jeroen, an organic dairy farmer. He wrote to me about the regulations. He doesn't see the forest through the trees anymore. Scraping the jungle with rules that have been added in recent years is his apple. Then there's Oege. He has a dairy farm that has grown in recent times and is now addressing the House of Representatives for the first time in his life. He writes that he does this mainly from a piece of emotion about the whole situation, from a sense of injustice and impotence. And then there's Harm, 15 years old. He wants to take over his parents' company later, but with the new law he fears the worst. It must not be the case that our cows will not be there in a year's time, he writes in his mail. Many e-mails were about cows that had been shaved at the time, which means companies have to buy up a lot of phosphate rights. Many e-mails were about stables that were only ready and could be filled after the measuring date due to unforeseen circumstances. I also received many emails from dairy farmers working with regional contracts with farmers and wondering what the new legislation means to them. I can go on like this for a while. Pain, uncertainty, fear and division paralyze the sector. The core today is: give us clarity; ensure a good future for dairy farming in our country. I'm asking the Secretary of State if boys like Harm still have a future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u72	I also got an e-mail from Harm. I am grateful that Mrs Dik-Faber said what was in that e-mail, because now I do not have to do so anymore. This is what I'm talking about. Yesterday, I spent ten years in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u73	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u74	Thank you. You can always give me a cake or flowers. Ten years ago, I kind of warned about this. For ten years, I have tabled motions to put the interests of farmers above that of the EU. I have always said: they are our own farmers; they are our own farmers first. As soon as the interests of our farmers get in the way, we must say to Brussels: fat nose, look at it, we are simply not going to do it. However, the Christian Union has never supported one of the motions I have tabled. I don't understand. Now the peasants have stumbled. In fact, the Chamber has tripped the peasants and now the Christian Union is playing the merciful Samaritan. Now the Christian Union reaches out to the peasants and says, "Come on, we'll pull you up." However, the question is whether the latter is still possible, because some farmers have already stopped doing so. I do not understand why no action has been taken before, not even by the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u75	I remember that this week, I think, was Tuesday, a similar motion by Mr Graus was put to the vote. That was a motion with a simple message: the Chamber expresses that the interests of Dutch farmers go beyond the interests of Brussels. With my heart I say: that is so; I totally agree with that. However, Mr Graus also saw that the motion was barely supported. Because it's a symbol motion. If we adopted that motion, there would be no change for our Dutch farmers. We are bound to Brussels with our hands and feet. We can find all kinds of things and we can fight them in our hearts, but we just do. That's a fact. The adoption of that motion would not change anything and would really be symbolic politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u76	That's not true. When I started here ten years ago, we had absolutely no popularity among farmers, gardeners and fishermen. However, it has grown tremendously. We're entrepreneurial party number one. In many farmer's magazines that have conducted a survey we are or never mentioned or bashed in it we were in third place, but in a lot we were in the first place. The farmers simply agree with us. Anything's possible. We clone sheep. We're flying in circles around the moon. We're-I don't know-how many light-years away. We do all kinds of things. Then why can't we help the farmers? We help the Greeks, we help refugees, but suddenly we can't do anything for our farmers; then suddenly it's symbolic politics. Yeah, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u77	I think the motion tabled by Mr Graus is symbolic. I think we're all standing here tonight... let me speak for myself: I'm here tonight to do the best for the farmers in our country. That will be the intention of all of us, with all the political differences that there will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u78	Mr Graus is all saying things that farmers want to hear, but the question is, of course, what are you actually doing to help farmers? I also ask Mrs Dik-Faber that question. She has received many emails from farmers, she says. I'm curious to hear the answer. Does the Christian Union honestly and fairly say that the cabinet is doing exactly what it has asked for and that it has supported it so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u79	I have indeed received a lot of emails from farmers. Every situation is different. I'll answer every one of those e-mails. Farmers are all given an answer as to their situation: what we have brought into the debates and what we have finally been able to change in the legislative proposal on the basis of the votes. So I will wait for my answer and then give a feedback. Indeed, in recent years we have had a lot of debates in the House of Representatives on the future of dairy farming. I see the inability of the Chamber, sometimes, to choose, divided as it is, the good. However, you can assume from me that the Christian Union has always, always, never, except for a moment, had the interest of Dutch farmers in this. That is how we have always voted and we have always put forward our proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u80	Well, always? We have been warned about the unbridled growth of dairy farming. In dealing with that bill, the Christian Union did make proposals to alleviate that, but when those amendments were not adopted, it voted in favour of the bill. So I think it is a little cheap to lay the blame on the Secretary of State and ask if he is doing enough for the sector we are so proud of, while the Christian Union has supported all these proposals. This distracts attention from the fact that the Christian Union itself is responsible for the growth of dairy farming while we have been warned that this would be the result. Mrs Dik-Faber herself is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u81	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u82	I'd still like to respond to it. The Christian Union has always said that it is in favour of abolishing the milk quota if it knew for sure that production growth could be controlled. We had doubts about that. This has also been discussed on a number of occasions. We have often spoken here about animal rights. They didn't come. It will be a system of phosphate rights, on a proposal from the Christian Union, which has tabled a motion on this matter with other parties, which has been adopted by the Chamber. All this has been done in view of the importance of farmers. In the end, we agreed to legislation at a few moments. Was that legislation perfect? No, she wasn't. Was this legislation exactly the way we wanted it to be? No, she wasn't. However, this legislation was necessary in order to maintain the derogation. Those moments have been there in recent years: if some legislation had not been passed, we would have lost the derogation. That would have been bad for our farmers and for the environment. I didn't want it to come to that. Then I will not take my responsibility and the Party for the Animals. Why did the Secretary of State let it get so out of hand? Is he even there for the farmers? I'll list the disappointments. The Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food (LNV) was dismantled. Not the minister, but an EZ Secretary of State had to do the job. Product shelves have been abolished and we now see how difficult it is to make sector plans. In 2015, the milk quota was deleted. You saw then from miles away that the dairy herd would grow and the derogation would be compromised. The Christian Union was against abolition, without instruments to control growth. A phosphate rights system was announced. It's only now, almost a year and a half later, that we're dealing with this bill. While it is already five to twelve, the Secretary of State finds that the European Commission does not approve the plan. I'm still perplexed. How is it possible that the Secretary of State got caught up in this? Why was the message that the transfer of rights is disguised state aid a complete surprise? Why has no State aid test been carried out before? The Secretary of State goes to Brussels over and over again. But what's he got in his bag? Why does he come back with an empty bag? The Secretary of State has messed up. He played with fire, and now the place is on fire. Does he realize how many family businesses are going to get into big trouble? Maintaining the derogation was apparently at the top of his list of priorities, but it is now very damaging. Is he going to fight in Brussels for the future of these family businesses? Is he taking control now? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, he must not come back empty-handed. Only maintaining the derogation counts, and nothing less. According to Wageningen Economic Research, the dairy complex would lose 20,700 jobs and 940 million euro in net value added without a derogation. Maintaining the derogation is important for the survival of family farms, but also for our food supply and our beautiful landscape, with grasslands and cows in the meadows, and for the environment. Manure has value. Phosphate is an important raw material. The alternative to fertilizer is much worse for the environment. In short, we must not lose the derogation. Today we are discussing two legislative proposals and a sector plan for next year, which are crucial for dairy farming. Today, the preservation of the derogation is central. At the same time, it is also important that we make the rules and agreements forward-looking. This also means cutting back on the accumulation of rules and laws. The Christian Union therefore chooses the following five starting points in today's debate. First of all... The future of dairy farming is land-based. Second. The regional loops of feed and manure should be central. Valuable organic matter should be used in regional cycles, including in arable crops. Third. We have to go to company-specific accountability, including by legal guarantee of the KringloopWijzer. Fourth. Young farmers should not be punished, but should be helped to continue farming. Without young farmers, we will no longer have a dairy sector left in the future. Fifth. Individual dairy farmers who are affected by an exceptional situation, for example because they had cut-off cattle at the reference date, should not be hit disproportionately hard. Before I go into the substance of the legislation, I would first like to comment on recent developments. First of all, on the debacle in Brussels: how did this happen? When did the Ministry first submit the phosphate rights system? Why hasn't a state aid test been requested before? Why has there been so long since the summer of 2015 with the concrete implementation and contact with Brussels? Why is there state aid? Why should there not be State aid when introduced in 2018 and when introduced in 2017? Why is there State aid, since companies will generally be subject to higher production costs? The cost per kilo of milk will increase as a result of the introduction of phosphate rights. I know few dairy farmers who will benefit from this bill. The Secretary of State has chosen to bring the bill into force on 1 January 2018 after the Brussels launch of the plans. Without measures in 2017, the generic discount will end up as a sledgehammer in dairy farming, as far as this is not already the case. Why did the Secretary of State no longer see opportunities for action in 2017? It is good that the sector has taken responsibility and has come up with a sectoral plan. It is a good thing that there is a system of cessation of operations and that measures are taken on the road. At the same time, I have many questions. First of all, how hard is this plan? Are the agreements sufficient to go with confidence towards 1 January 2018? Will the Secretary of State declare the plan universally binding? If there is a majority in the Chamber to spare land-based companies from 1 January 2018, why do they still have to participate in the reduction plan in 2017? Should land-based farmers be forced to shrink in 2017 and then regain development space in 2018? That seems very undesirable to me. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Does he want to solve this with the sector? Will the stopper scheme not mainly be used by smaller land-based companies? Is the pain being distributed fairly? How is it ensured that the pain of the measures does not end up too unilaterally with, for example, young farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u83	I hear Mrs Dik-Faber asking for a world. Does she have any views? She did before. She felt that land-based companies should be spared. Now I hear questions. Or should I take it as rhetorical questions? That answer could also be clear. Does Mrs Dik-Faber agree with me that these land-based companies should be spared, that this is not only true of the law that only applies after 1 January 2018 but that these companies should be spared even in 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u84	GroenLinks has seen the amendment tabled by my group to avoid land-based companies. This applies to the legislative proposal that will enter into force on 1 January 2018. For 2017, we have a sector plan. That plan has no legal status. So we can't send that as a room either. Mr Grashoff can ask me if I agree with anything. Yeah, I agree with him. But do I then have tools to send them? I don't have one. All I can do is ask the Secretary of State to make arrangements with the sector to bring the plan for next year into line with the bill as the Chamber will adopt. I am confident that the sector will take that step on the basis of what I have just read in the media about initial reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u85	That's a little weird. That was, of course, also what my particular interest was this afternoon and what I asked for that letter from the Secretary of State. It comes back with a meaningless answer that nothing has changed yet. Shouldn't Mrs Dik-Faber simply come to the conclusion with me that we are giving the Secretary of State a clear mandate? Or he'll take care of it by law in 2017. Of course, that's fine. Mrs Dik-Faber's questions on non-marketable rights are crystal clear. Or we could send the Secretary of State back to the negotiating table. Of course, he's got a position. There is, for Christ's sake, 25 million taxpayers' money involved. Surely it cannot be that we would not be in a position to reach a good agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u86	This is a repeat of last week's moves. Last week Mr Grashoff put exactly the same questions to me. I'm going to give you exactly the same answer now. The 23 million is indeed part of the agreement, but that amount is organized for the stopper scheme. That stopper arrangement is no longer under discussion. We are, however, calling into question the substance of the problem. There's no state money in that. As I said, the plan has no legal status whatsoever. The only thing we can do is to appeal to the Secretary of State to consult with the sector and an appeal to the sector to take responsibility here and align his plan with the law as we are going to adopt it. I'm confident you'll be okay. That makes the most sense to me. Otherwise, in 2017 farmers will be faced with a plan that is not in line with the law that will enter into force in 2018. I don't think that's appropriate either. I continue my speech and come to speak on both legislative proposals. The generic discount in the phosphate rights system will enter into force on 1 January 2018. Earlier, the Secretary of State reported that the discount would be 4% to 8%. Since the transfer of rights and thus the skimming is not possible in 2017, the discount will be higher. That's painful. Does the Secretary of State have an indication? Can we assume that the phosphate rights bill and a generic discount will only apply if there is a negotiated outcome on the derogation in Brussels? I have tabled an amendment to put the General Measure on the generic discount before the Chamber so that the Chamber can still discuss it. It's a crucial part of this law. I would like to hear a response to that amendment. I am surprised that land-based companies are not spared the generic discount. Land-based dairy farmers are not part of the situation that has arisen. They are farms which have continued to operate on their own land within the limits of manure disposal, even after the abolition of the milk quota. For many years, it has been clear, even for the sector itself, that the future of dairy farming is ground-bound. It is inconceivable for the Christian Union that these future-oriented companies should suffer from a reduction in their phosphate rights. I have therefore tabled an amendment together with Mrs Koşer Kaya to avoid land-based companies. This is a crucial amendment for my group. I hope for the support of the Secretary of State and of the Chamber. Today is also the legislative proposal for a law on land-based growth dairy farming. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, legislation is concerned with promoting regional cycles. Regional feed-fertiliser contracts can be a good solution, both for cooperating farmers and for the environment. It is important that manure disposal by farmers in the near vicinity can be deducted from the dairy phosphate surplus. However, the Secretary of State does not see any reason for this, according to the written questioning. He maintains the provision that the entrepreneur must exercise the power of disposal over the land. Why does he leave the opportunity to reward sustainable manure disposal in the region? Mr Geurts and I have tabled an amendment to legally secure feed-fertilizer contracts in the region, with a distance of 20 kilometres. Organic farms could benefit from an exception as they may only sell manure to other organic farms. I would like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u87	In my opinion, the world would look better for everyone, even here in the public gallery, if I and Professor Dijkgraaf were to be listened to a little more, because I and Professor Dijkgraaf tabled a motion last year, which said: 'calls the government, in consultation with the sector, to promote or make possible regional recycling of manure and feed for possible problems'. Who voted against it? The Christian Union. I find it incomprehensible. I'll get back to the other thing, 'cause I did my homework for a while. A motion on the effects of generic discount on milk companies: the Christian Union was against. Allowing the interests of agricultural entrepreneurs to prevail and taking into account their primary living needs and their major contribution to the Dutch gross national product: the Christian Union was against. Reverting the obligation of capital-intensive air conditioners: the Christian Union was against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u88	How many motions do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u89	I've got over 100, but I've only got a few on me. "Asks the government to refrain from further implementation of Natura 2000," you know, that neck-kick for the farmers: the Christian Union was against. I can get 100 in a minute. It's unbelievable, really. Considering the stool of farm animals as a very valuable building, soil and energy substance, rich in phosphates, already in 2014: the ChristianUnion was against. It's nice to put boots on your bench here, but those farmers really don't buy it, you know, sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u90	That was a very sad thing about motions. I'm not going to see them all. I do not remember why I voted against the motion on the cycle. It seems very strange to me that we have voted against it, because as long as I have been in the Chamber for four years now, I support the commitment to closing regional loops. For my part, this is why I have tabled amendments to the regional loops on the circular guide and manure feed contracts. I shall continue with my speech, which seems to me to be a good idea. We're probably gonna talk about this at our pie during the suspension because of the tenth anniversary. I'm coming up on the circular hand. In practice, it is an important part of dairy farmers' management and offers opportunities to account for and close loops in a responsible manner. In this way, companies within the phosphate rights system can produce less phosphate and still continue to produce enough milk. Mr Geurts and I have tabled an amendment aimed at legally guaranteeing the circular guide, so that it can be used at the same time as the introduction of phosphate rights. Then I'll get to the timeline. With the delay in the legislative proposal and the delay in the date of its entry into force, the July 2015 target date will continue to be in the past. This means that the measurement of the number of livestock on 2 July 2015 will have enormous consequences for the situation after two and a half years. This leads to many unfair situations. The measuring date falls down like a hatchet in the sector. Does the Secretary of State also see that the date of 2 July 2015 is very damaging for some companies, for example because they had a lower occupancy just on this date? For example, an annual average was maintained for the milk quota. I have therefore tabled an amendment to leave entrepreneurs the choice to make the average for a six-month period decisive if this is more favourable than the current reference date. This bill leads to many disproportionate situations in individual companies. We have heard and read many poignant stories through conversations, e-mails and also the hearing in the Chamber. About 20% of dairy farmers, for example, had cut off dairy cows or young cattle to third-party land during the grazing season. In these companies, the impact is the hardest. The owner of the animals does not get phosphate rights in the end. Why does the Secretary of State not opt for a one-off arrangement whereby a redistribution of rights can be agreed among themselves? This would also be a solution for land-based organisations that want to continue to cooperate with farmers who want to breed their livestock. I'd like a response to that. Many farmers who want to grow ground-bound and have invested in enlargement plans, for example in the six months preceding the announcement of the phosphate rights system, have seen their investments go up in smoke. These companies are getting a heavy financial blow. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, there is still too little trouble in the law. I have co-signed Mr Geurts' amendment to give more room for manoeuvre in the problem regulation, in particular by setting up an advisory committee looking at individual cases. The introduction of phosphate rights can lead to the benefit of all kinds of people, except family farms with a future. I call intermediaries, lawyers, stopping farmers and so on. How does the Secretary of State intend to prevent this? I also mention the loss of rights. Is the loser obliged to produce a minimum amount of phosphate himself? How does the Secretary of State intend to prevent companies from waiting years to sell phosphate rights, waiting for a favourable price? I'll be on the phosphate bank. The Christian Union believes it is important that the phosphate bank be focused on the main goals: land-boundness and thereby grazing, and young farmers. I tabled an amendment with Mr Geurts to delete the objectives of sustainability and animal welfare, not because they are insignificant, but because the phosphate rights system is not intended to pursue these objectives. Let me ask you a few questions about the ownership test. Is the law going to pass the proportionality test? Doesn't the generic discount lead to unwanted interference in property rights? Can entrepreneurs not call for excess burdens later on? Can the skimming even after we have reached the phosphate production ceiling pass the ownership test? Then we have the situation that the phosphate bank is only being used for purposes other than maintaining the derogation. My group has difficulty with that. The Christian Union considers the phosphate rights system to be a painful but necessary short-term solution to maintain the derogation. However, I would ask the Secretary of State to change the responsibility for the future. Is the Nitrates Directive actually being exceeded? Are we gonna be okay? Where did the overrun come from? Is that only agriculture or are other factors involved? The differences between regions in the Netherlands are large. According to the RIVM, nitrate concentrations in peat areas and in the clay region are already well in line with the target, as these land break down more nitrate. In sandy soils, nitrate concentration is already close to the target. In general, nitrate concentration in the Netherlands is falling. I would like to hear how the Secretary of State will bring this up in Brussels. In addition, I ask the Secretary of State to introduce an evaluation exercise in 2017, at the same time as the deadlines for the action programme on the nitrates directives. I'm rounding up. Dairy farming is a sector to be proud of. In the IJsselhallen, the Secretary of State told hundreds of dairy farmers: I'm going to fight for dairy farming. I hope he repeats those words today, and not just that. I hope he translates those words into action as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u91	The SP has tabled an amendment concerning the phosphate bank. We propose not to make the rights negotiable, but to grant them. We do that because such a right per cow can amount to €5,000 if we make it negotiable. If we import this and talk about dairy farming, all farms in total will be about 7 billion or even more expensive. That amount must be paid back somehow. What is the Christian Union's view of this problem and what does Mrs Dik-Faber think of the SP amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u92	I would like to look at the amendment very carefully. I have also raised this issue before in debates, because I do see that we are investing money in paper. What you invest in paper phosphate rights, you cannot invest in land or other things. I am therefore very keen that the price of phosphate rights should not be pushed too high and that not too much money should go to intermediaries. I asked that question today. However, in order not to put a price on it at all, I think it is a step too far. Then you do not join the entrepreneurship in dairy farming in the Netherlands. I want to look very closely at that amendment, but I do see a few bumps here. Let us look together at how we can ensure that this price does not become too high, because I understand the point Mr Van Gerven is raising here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u93	The interruptions must be short and the answers must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u94	We do have an important debate, and each Member does his or her interrupting in his or her own way and in his or her own style.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u95	It's in the Rules of Procedure. It really needs to be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u96	Certainly, Mr President, but I also think I have a certain view of my interruptions, let me put it this way. I'm gonna keep going on the subject. Mrs Dik-Faber is right not to invest in paper. Money must not disappear in paper, in wind trading. Otherwise, there's gonna be a lot of people making money, and who's gonna pay the bill? These are the farmers themselves who have to buy rights. In the end, it may be the consumer who has to pay more for his milk or whatever. That needs to be paid back. In view of the problems that exist, would it not also be better for the longer term for the public authorities to introduce a type of licensing system based on a number of criteria? Then we will not fall into unwanted trade, which will only lead to the farmers who have a lot of money growing, while farmers who have little money will suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u97	I do see the point, however, that you have to prevent those phosphate rights from having an enormous price. After all, everything you spend on it cannot be spent on other matters. But to run that all the way through the government now, with a phosphate bank managed by the government... Then you as an entrepreneur depend on the government, whether she allows you the space to develop your business. That really is a vision that I want to stay far away from. Perhaps it is a vision that the SP advocates: a major role for the government, and making companies dependent on the government when it comes to growth opportunities. That's not what the Christian Union wants. Then you'll come to the marketability of rights. Then there will indeed be a price attached to it. Let's look together at how we can prevent price increases as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u98	At the end, Mrs Dik-Faber rightly focuses on water quality. It's not really about phosphate, it's about the quality of the water. If those phosphate rights are needed to bring in that derogation, would it not be wise to work with temporary rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u99	Look, it's possible, a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u100	He was so short, I don't quite understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u101	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u102	I'll explain. If you say that it is about drinking water quality for the longer term, then you have to take action in this area. We know that phosphate rights do not really help the quality of drinking water, because where there are water problems, there are no cows. If you need those phosphate rights temporarily to bring in the derogation, hold those phosphate rights temporarily and do not opt for an infinite system, making them very expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u103	Indeed, I believe that there should be an evaluation in the law. I'm gonna look into it and see if it's gonna end. But I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf that we should eventually move towards a system that guides water quality. I want a system of phosphate rights now. I believe that such a system is important for maintaining the derogation. But in the meantime, let's not sit still and see how we can guarantee water quality for the future. This can also be done in a different way than with a system of phosphate rights. Mr Dijkgraaf is now asking me whether we should not come up with an end date. I'd like to check that out. I don't know yet. But I think we should be realistic in the end. I see the problem raised by Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u104	Yeah, because this is important. Whether those phosphate rights are going to cost €5,000 or €2,000, it does matter how long the period is. The size of the impact depends on the lifetime of those phosphate rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u105	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u106	There is no reason, in substance, to proceed with phosphate rights without an end. If I understand correctly, so does Mrs Dik-Faber. No, we have to do this for a certain period of time. After that we will focus on what really matters, namely water quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u107	I'm gonna take a look at it. I have heard what Mr Dijkgraaf said and I promise him I will look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u108	I hear Mrs Dik say that she believes that these phosphate rights should not be overpriced. If you opt for marketable rights, I think that simply implies that the price is determined by the market. If you don't want to, you shouldn't choose negotiable rights. If there is a trade, the price is determined on the market. That's the hallmark of trade. Does Mrs Dik-Faber therefore agree with me that she wants something impossible here? It wants rights which are negotiable, but at the same time it wants to control the price.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u109	I see the point Mr Grashoff is raising. Mr Van Gerven has also made this point. I also hear Mr Dijkgraaf say: let us work together to ensure that the price of these phosphate rights is not too high. That's my ambition, too. However, I do not support the SP proposal in which the public authorities have a major role to play in this. Let us look at how we can organise the phosphate rights system in such a way that it does not become too expensive and that it does not involve too many intermediaries. I've suggested a stock exchange system before. I regret that the Chamber did not accept that proposal. I would like to take this debate this evening with the Secretary of State and with other parties in order to find a solution to this problem. But I am not sure that Mr Grashoff's solution is mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u110	Experts have long predicted that this price could amount to about €5,000 or €6,000 per cow. I'm sure it will be. Then I will enter into the discussion with Mrs Dik-Faber and remind her of her words. 'Cause we're not gonna stop this. Another solution could be to opt for non-marketable rights. Mr Van Gerven has put forward a proposal for this. I myself tabled an amendment to make it possible to have legislation as early as 2017. So we know for sure that we comply with the rules around the phosphate ceiling. After all, the European Commission insists on this marketability. If we opt for non-marketable rights, we will be able to introduce a duty system in 2017. That would give much more certainty. Is Mrs Dik-Faber interested in that amendment? What does she think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u111	I think it is an illusion to now come up with legislation and regulations that should apply before 2017. I just don't think that can be a real option. Mr Grashoff also refers to non-marketable rights. A choice would mean that you would work with a phosphate bank and that there would be a major role for the government. Farmers then become too dependent on the government in terms of business development. And I don't want to. GroenLinks and the SP really have a different view on the system of phosphate rights than the Christian Union has.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u112	Mr. Chairman. The future of dairy farming is at stake. That is a very serious matter. It is not for nothing that the public gallery is full at the moment. There are people who are worried. They are right to worry, because the government has failed. She has not only failed well in the past one and a half years, but also in the years before. She's the one who let it go. Wrong decisions have been made. There's been a mistake stacked on it. In doing so, the government has created a situation in which many people have been in trouble. Now that government's gonna have to solve that. So we will have no choice but to use a lot of taxpayers' money. Let us be clear: the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance now believes that this tax money should be invested in it. We can't do it, otherwise the judge will call us to order, as a result of the necessary policy, to let people go through the pit financially. Yeah, we're gonna put that money in. As far as I am concerned, teeth-grabbing, but we will do so, also with the support of my group. The future of dairy farming is at stake in many other respects. It is not just about dairy farming, but also about the demand for dairy farming. The Secretary of State said in the budget treatment that he wants a spot on the horizon for nature-inclusive agriculture. Nature-inclusive agriculture is land-based agriculture. That's clip-and-ready. There is only one direction: if you want to be nature-inclusive, at least you have to close the loops. So if you want to close the loops, there's a limit to the livestock. That limit is determined by the soil, by the soil, both in terms of feed and manure. You're gonna come a little farther. What we are doing now, again, does not lead in that direction. Where the dot can never be reached at once even GroenLinks doesn't think that it can be done at all. You will have to take advantage of opportunities to move at least in that direction if there is a change or if you need to intervene. That's not gonna happen. The draft law before us does not provide for this. It does not regulate the protection of the soil-based and biological sectors. Nor is it regulated in the sector agreement before us. A piece of history: the milk quota. It's always really lame, but I can't say anything but "I told you so." I have repeatedly said in 2011 that the abolition of the milk quota would lead to a huge surplus of milk production. But I was a gloomy man, it all didn't add up and you name it. It was even harder than I thought. At the time the milk quota was formally abolished, 1 April 2015, the surplus on the phosphate ceiling was already there. It took a while before that got through to the government. Then Secretary of State Sharon Dijksma sent a letter in July: stop, stop, stop, because we have to take action! But everyone knew that it had long been anticipated with the construction of new stables and with young cattle and that it was just coming. If the Secretary of State says here, as in the budget debate, that we didn't know and that there were reports saying that it was all okay, then that's not true. Dairy farmers produced 4% more milk than was allowed in the last quota year alone, i.e. before abolition. They accepted a fine of 132 million. They took it for granted, because they thought, "Well, the quota's gonna go down and then the golden mountains come." I thought it was a little crazy that the Secretary of State said last week: we really didn't see it coming and the reports were all favourable. In 2010 the Planbureau voor de Leefenvironment proposed in What livestock in the Netherlands? all that an increase of 20% in milk production and 10% in manure production had to be taken into account. I think that's crystal clear. In 2011, the same PBL indicated that there were insufficient guarantees that the increase could be avoided with the current potential of government regulation, technical measures and market forces. There were indeed warnings. In 2014, we hear from one of our experts, Frits van der Schans of the CLM (Centre for Agriculture and the Environment), he warned the Ministry of I and M, but that information was not welcome there. I believe that the Secretary of State should now give an honest answer to the question of the forthcoming problem of milk surpluses and the exceeding of the phosphate ceiling. There's no way we're gonna get around the hot stuff here. We need to look forward, but we also need to look honestly at what happened. During the budget debate, I tabled a motion with Mr Dijkgraaf to at least have an evaluation study carried out. That makes sense to me. If it is really serious, we are going to resort to the means of the parliamentary inquiry. I don't want to go that far. But a little research is the least you can do. That motion was voted down. Is this the well-known political cynical logic, namely that the middle parties of VVD, CDA and Labour Party have a butterberg on their heads, to speak in dairy terms, when it comes to releasing the milk quota? My group believes that the process of exceeding the phosphate ceiling has been extremely sloppy. It was before that overrun too little, too late. We have even debated for a very long time a law on land-based growth in dairy farming. A powerless law, a law that didn't do what it had to do, but a law that imposed a lot of rules on the sector. Does the Secretary of State admit that this law was too little, too late? After determining the overrun, i.e. after 2 July 2015, the administrative process, I can't put it any different than a series of administrative blunders and a political stalemate between two coalition parties that occupied each other for almost a year and a half before they figured out how to send a bill to the Chamber. A year and a half! While the alarm clock was sounded in July 2015. Then they came to the Chamber with an incomplete bill. It was so incomplete that within three weeks the essence of the bill had to be removed from the table with a letter of amendment, because the European Commission considered it to be a state aid issue. Did that come like a thunderbolt in the clear sky? Of course not. The Secretary of State could of course have known that there was at least the risk that this could be classified as State aid. Then you consult at an early stage and make sure this doesn't happen to you. It is logical that the European Commission considers this to be state aid. It's also cynical, because it's an unwanted gift to the sector. It is only a gift at the start of the introduction of the system. The moment it has been introduced, there is a piece of dead money and as soon as farmers have to expand or start a business, it brings with it a huge cost item. This is just going to be €5,000 or €6,000 per cow; mind you, Mrs Dik-Faber, it just happens so that money has to be borrowed from the bank on which interest has to be paid. This reduces farmers' income further. Then it will only help those who quit for the old age provision. Happy awarded, but not good for the sector. There is therefore a link between the introduction of a new lead load in this sector and the reports that say that there are no successors. Of course there's a relationship, that's obvious. I haven't heard from the Secretary of State so far. He has sailed around it quite a bit, also in the budget debate, namely that it was actually a bit forgotten to address it to the European Commission in good time. Can the Secretary of State go into that again in detail? How did that process go? Why is it not up to him and his official organization that this catastrophic mistake came to light, five to twelve? If the Secretary of State has to withdraw half his bill with his letter of amendment, the next step is to postpone it until 2018, because I am not allowed to introduce a phosphate rights system by the European Commission. That's not true. The marketability was not allowed. It would therefore have been perfectly possible to introduce the system by 2017. And if we don't make it to January 1st, we'll make it April 1st. In any event, the phosphate rights system will ensure, with certainty, that we meet that phosphate ceiling by the end of 2017. Of course, that's what we're all about. We really want to work on that with each other. I think everyone agrees with that, whether we're in favour or against. Let's at least do this. However, the choice has now been made to call back on the polder and to settle the decline in livestock in a voluntary sectoral agreement for 2017. If anything has become clear in recent years, it is that sector agreements have little value. Was it not the same agricultural sector under the leadership of all of us LTO who said at the time of the abolition of the milk quota that all will be fine; we in the sector ensure that the phosphate ceiling is not exceeded and that production growth is limited? None of that worked out. Why is that? That is quite clear: a sector organisation cannot bind its members at all and a sector organisation does not want to bind its members at all. That all leads to very annoying discussions and what do we do now? The moment it is really necessary, we say: we are doing it with a voluntary agreement with the sector. I have big, big concerns about that. I'm really worried about whether it's actually gonna happen in the end. We don't know. It's an uncertain situation. Why does the Secretary of State choose to restore confidence in the sector, by the way, in part of the sector, with an agreement that you know from experience that it is extremely tricky? Whether it was agricultural poison, imidacloprid, or grazing or a phosphate ceiling, how many agreements have we made with the agricultural sector? They are not being complied with. It is not the individual farmers who make their own decisions with their own businesses; it is a system in which lobby clubs, lobbyists, not really stand for the interests of their constituents, have a big mouth, but ultimately do not deliver. On 18 November we received the letter in which that agreement was settled. The agreement should lead to a reduction of 6.6 million kilograms of phosphate. We see that the genuinely promising farmers of the future, organic and land-based farmers, are not spared in that agreement and that they massively do not support this agreement. And rightly so. They have no part in this problem, but they can take the fall for it. I imagine that would lead to great, great anger. How is it possible that this is happening in the Netherlands? Nature-inclusive agriculture is a mark on the Secretary of State's horizon, but when it comes to it, there is no exception for land-based and organic farmers. For the organic sector, there is a shortage of production. There is more demand for organic products in the Netherlands than is delivered. But no, it's equal monks, equal hoods. But they are not equal monks; they are very unequal monks, fortunately. My group strongly supports the fact that, as early as 2017, we will have legislation to ensure that we meet the phosphate ceiling with certainty. I have amendments to simply introduce them, but in view of the contributions made by the previous speakers, I can imagine that it might not even reach a majority. That's not wise, but it could be. If, however, there is an approach to an agreement with the sector, you should at least want that agreement to be drawn up in such a way that it is in line with the desire expressed by many different groups in this Chamber to avoid organic and land-based farmers. I'm doing something unusual, Mr. Chairman. I shall now table a motion in the first term. I do that because I want to make sure that it plays a role and because I also want to make sure that those who do not really want to sit here until 3:00 a.m. tonight know in any case what the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance's commitment is. The motion reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u113	No, there's got to be a majority for that. It is common practice for a debate to take place first, because a motion always starts with 'hear the debate'. Motions will be tabled after the government has responded. But if a majority of the Chamber so wishes...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u114	I think it's just my right to file a motion. I don't see why you shouldn't. Then the political groups can have an opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u115	No, it's in the Rules of Procedure. I'm sure you do, but we'll look it up. Yeah, I think so! I shall give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand and, in the meantime, it will be examined in what article.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u116	I think you were right. I had already come forward to express my support. I think that Mr Grashoff should be given the opportunity to table his motion now, because I think he will have a good reason for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u117	I think we have agreed that we want to have an orderly debate here, so as far as I am concerned, motions will simply be tabled in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u118	It is not quite clear to me what the content of the motion is. Is it a motion of censure? If not, file in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u119	I also attach great importance to an orderly debate. The motion is 'heard the debate'. Let's take our time. Submit her in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u120	I've been there several times. It is true that we need the assent of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u121	Assent from a majority. It's in the Rules of Procedure, so I'm right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u122	It's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u123	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u124	Exceptionally, I've allowed it sometimes because there was a very good reason for it. I don't hear that good reason yet. If Mr Grashoff really has a particular reason, there has been a motion of censure in the past in the first term. But we're not doing it with just an important motion. We'll file it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u125	Professor Dijkgraaf, I know that reason. Mr Grashoff also tried to postpone the second term. Because people from GroenLinks, they travel by train!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u126	There won't be a train after midnight. By the time Mr Grashoff can table the motion, the trains will no longer run! But I'd be happy to give him a ride in a very polluting BMW. So if he wants to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u127	Mr Grashoff, you cannot table a motion. I refer you to Rule 66 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u128	I have not heard an opinion on this from all the political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u129	Oh. Who hasn't been? Let's see. Mr Leenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u130	I prefer the second term for motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u131	It is used that we submit motions in second term, unless there is such a special exception that you would like to do so in the first term. It's like a fashion phenomenon. I see this every time in the room these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u132	Who haven't I heard? Mr Van Gerven, a majority does not want the motion to be tabled, but I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u133	I can't believe you missed me! Or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u134	No. I wouldn't dare!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u135	Okay. I propose that the motion should simply be tabled in second place, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There must be a special reason to do it in the first term, but I haven't heard it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u136	Thank you. Please continue with your speech, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u137	Mr. Chairman. This is extremely disappointing, but it is clear. Of course, I accept what the majority of the Chamber wants, because that is how the game works here. But I find it very disappointing. If the spokesmen say that they have not yet heard a convincing argument, they may have forgotten some of my interruptions with a few speakers who gave me unclear answers and perhaps they have not yet fully understood my story. This is the essence of what this debate should be about. If you don't set rules for 2017, you'll have to settle it through the agreement in a good, decent way. I will not read the motion, but in any case the government will be asked to renegotiate it with all relevant parties in the agricultural sector in order to adapt this agreement in such a way that land-based and organic dairy farmers are spared the necessary reduction of the dairy herd in 2017. In any case, that is the operative part of the motion, but I will, of course, submit it neatly by the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u138	This was your input and not a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u139	Mr. Chairman. My group firmly believes that we should encourage organic and land-based farmers and not discourage them. We're gonna get rid of these farmers of the future before the system goes in. That is unacceptable to my group. In addition, the agreement has a high price of EUR 25 million. I have already indicated that we should also do this with regard to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. There's no other way. We're gonna have to deal with people in a decent way. But is it not logical that we should make a number of demands and that the Secretary of State should have a negotiating position towards the sector by saying: of course we are going to get out of it with each other; of course I am going to put taxpayers' money in it, but I also have a few wishes that I just want to see met? What's illogical about that? I think the Secretary of State has an excellent position. If we in the Chamber are asking him loud and clear, then I cannot imagine him coming home with nothing. I must also note that it is not only a question of reducing the number of cows, but also of looking at the feed trail. In itself, it's not strange to look at the food as well, but at the service of what? Is that at the service of the possibility of increasing the number of cows? That's possible, but then the next disappointment is on the sidewalk. Dutch agriculture contributes 13% to CO emissions. Then we also have the Paris climate agreement. If we want to completely frustrate the sector again by taking measures that will lead to an increase in livestock, while in the years to come the CO reduction in agriculture will also have to be taken seriously, as we do not escape from it under the Paris Treaty obligations, we must now concentrate on increasing the phosphate ceiling and using the feed track in such a way that more animals come out of it. A kilo of methane gas represents 25 kilos of CO. It is not for nothing that agriculture also plays an important role in the climate debate. I do not want it on my conscience when we sit here again next year or in two years' time with a full public gallery, because we have to establish together that it is inevitable to reduce livestock. Nor do I know how to explain to the taxpayer that tax money should be thrown at it again. That's how it's gonna be. We hear that there would be an idea to make the sector package generally binding. On the other hand, however, a number of specialists say that this is not possible at all, and that this is not legally sustainable at all. Could the Secretary of State explain to us in detail how he sees it with that general statement? Does he really want to do that now? How durable is that? I have already indicated that my group is an important advocate of legislation. Legislation can be introduced in 2017 if you do not rely on marketable rights but on rights. Then, of course, you are in the dilemma that the government then has a steering role. Mrs Dik-Faber said some things about this in her reply. That's right, but what's the hardest thing to weigh? What should weigh the most for the coming time? If there's a fear of too much government influence, can't we settle it? Can a committee of wise men be set up to allocate rights from a phosphate bank? Can this not be dealt with in cooperation with the sector in order to do so responsibly, so that the sector can actually contribute to its own development with regulatory support? As far as I am concerned, that could be and I would be in favour of it. The law will soon state that if phosphate rights are traded, 10% will be skimmed and put into a phosphate bank. Can the Secretary of State explain to me again why 10% was chosen? Why not a higher or a lower percentage? Is it enough to allow the expansion of land-based organic farmers? Why have we still not received any criteria on which these phosphate rights are then issued? Will that perhaps also fuel mistrust in the sector if we first lay down the rules here and later get to the essence of that phosphate bank? I don't think that's very trustworthy. And why amvb and not by law? It seems logical to me to make such a fundamental change that this Parliament should at least adopt a law for that. We had asked for figures, and we wanted those figures because we wanted to know the proportion of land-based farms in the Netherlands and therefore the number of cows on those land-based farms. Then we can see what the real consequences would be if you excluded that group. What does that mean? The Secretary of State couldn't deliver those figures at first. Then it got really late and we got them this morning. Of course, the set of figures was such that we couldn't get this share out of it. I'm sure that's gonna lead to a deep sigh. Is Parliament now being given the opportunity to do its job properly or is it simply being obstructed? These figures will have to be available in the department, I ask the Secretary of State. There's no other way, is there? Isn't there some sort of calculation of the consequences for the different sub-sectors? I can't imagine, but we haven't had them. I am afraid that, at the end of this journey, we will eventually enter the future in 2017 with an uncertain situation for the sector and for all of us. It is uncertain whether we can hold the derogation. It is also uncertain whether we should cause any more problems for farmers with draconian extra measures, which we may have to take. It is also uncertain whether the future of dairy farming is going in the sustainable direction or not at all in that direction. This is uncertain, but my analysis too is that we are going in the wrong direction with these measures. My group will not support the legislative proposal and the sectoral agreement in this way. We would like to introduce a phosphate rights system, because we believe that this is inevitable. We want to spend 25 million taxpayers' money on this, not just because it is necessary, but not under these conditions and with this wretched bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u140	I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand, on behalf of the Animal Party. For the people in the public gallery; Mrs Ouwehand has 60 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u141	Mr. Chairman. If anyone needs a pee break in the meantime, I'll let you know. You can fool all the people some of the time and some of the people all the time, but you can not fool all the people all the time. Abraham Lincoln already knew that. You can fool a lot of people temporarily, you can always fool some people, but you can't fool all people forever. Who did you really think you could fool, I ask the VVD, the Labour Party, the PVV, the CDA, the SGP and the Christian Union? Who do you think you're kidding? The farmers? If I were a farmer, I would be greatly offended that these parties have such a low opinion of my critical abilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u142	I've been addressed personally, so I thought I'd go to the interrupting microphone. I have a question for Mrs Ouwehand. Last weekend she had party congress. If I am well informed, there was an amendment proposing to include 70% of livestock farming from the Netherlands in the electoral programme. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u143	Sure. The Party for Animals represents a shrinkage of the Dutch livestock. That's nothing new. We have looked at different framework conditions that are just harsh realities, such as climate, nature, environment, animal welfare, food security and a real future for farmers. What do you have left? A livestock of about 30% of the animals currently present in the Netherlands in the bio-industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u144	I think I recall that at the congress it was stated that it should be at least 70% and that it could be even more, but Mrs Ouwehand said: "Dear Members of the Party for Animals, do not do this, because this is very common in society. The Animal Party wants to abolish 100% of livestock farming, but it does not put it in its electoral programme, because it is too radical to put it on paper. That is the Party's commitment to the Animals. Then I know, but then the gallery and everyone listening in knows the value of the Party's contribution to the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u145	Nice try. I would perhaps do the same, if I had less shame, to distract the attention that I had put the farmers in great trouble. The Animal Party represents a 70% reduction in livestock. There was a proposal at Congress to abolish the entire livestock sector, but our congress said that we do not. This is the Line of the Party for Animals. It's not new. The fact that Mr Geurts is trying to make that a thing to win votes with the farmers is up to him. I think farmers are smarter than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u146	I do not understand Mrs Ouwehand's remark to me. I have been explaining for ten years and this whole evening that I have always tabled totally different motions. Over the last ten years, I have set up a completely different line than those mentioned by Mrs Ouwehand. So I don't get it. I really can't understand that. I am simply going to repeat it: I was the only one against Natura 2000 and warned about the nooses that our farmers, growers and fishermen in the European Union get. I've been the only one! How can Mrs Ouwehand say that I have fooled or fooled the farmers? That's a shame, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u147	If Mr Graus is done talking, perhaps I can answer him. What Mr Graus is doing, of course, can be done. You can be against Natura 2000. The PVV has nothing to do with nature and the environment. I get it. However, it is a legal reality that the Netherlands has committed itself to this. So you can pretend to the farmers that those rules do not exist, as if you can get rid of them, but the reality is that the Netherlands is being kept to them. If people go to the European Court, they will be right and then the livestock farming that has been washed out of the clods will have to be reduced. It is up to the taxpayer or the farmers themselves to pay for it. I understand that Mr Graus would like it to be different, but he forgets to tell the farmers what the harsh reality is. Then it's nice talk: just say what the farmers want to hear and do nothing that actually helps the farmers. And that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u148	That's not true. I've just been reading up a whole string that I'd help the farmers with. The chairman was still intervening. Moreover, we do want to leave the European Union. We want to be without the European Union, but we are for Europe. The products of our farmers are wanted worldwide. In China, the Chinese are beating each other's heads to get our milk products and milk powder. Even the mob gets called in for that. We have a line. As farmers who know, they can choose which party to vote on. If they vote for us, they will know that the future looks better. That's a line. That I have not always had my way, Mrs Ouwehand has a point. Finally. It was said that the PVV doesn't like nature, but I just don't like it, because I've worked very hard for nature and for animals. I am listed as one of the animal ambassadors of the Netherlands. I've been very committed to nature. Only, I also said that our farmers manage our nature; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u149	Mr Graus, you have made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u150	Mrs Ouwehand may think otherwise, but I do think that you should also let our farmers manage part of our nature. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u151	I need to express my relief here. I understand it so that when the Party for Animals comes to power, we still have our meatball and our pork chop, our steak, our glass of milk and a slice of cheese. That's all gonna stay the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u152	A little less, huh? Years ago it was customary to eat meat twice a week. That was healthy for everyone. That would be good for nature, the environment, climate goals and animal welfare, and for small-scale agriculture, which pays enough for the products that farmers supply and which are produced regionally. Then farmers can work again as they would like to. Because you don't tell me farmers are happy with this rat race to the bottom, the scaling up and the intensification. Yeah, that's what the Party for Animals stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u153	I totally disagree with that, but I think it's a bit of a soft approach. And I am happy with that again, because then we will at least have something left on our plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u154	Proceed, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u155	The Party for Animals believes that there is also an important large personal responsibility in the choice you make for your daily food. Mr Dijkgraaf knows very well that we also believe that the government has the task of providing the public value that I have just named nature, environment, animal welfare, food security...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u156	You've said that a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u157	Mr. Chairman. I'm getting a little distracted because you think I need to talk fast. I would like to answer Mr Dijkgraaf's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u158	I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u159	The task of the government is to safeguard those public values. In addition, we are all very much reducing our consumption of meat and dairy products. The government will also have to take action to do this. In there, everyone keeps their own freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u160	Please continue. And don't provoke them again, because they'll be back at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u161	Yes, Mr President, but that is what this debate is about. I can't help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u162	Do not repeat. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u163	Mr. Chairman. What these parties are not going to call them again, because then they will be back at the interrupt microphone again, so here's what I'm going to do. They gave the Secretary of State a square puzzle, with the assignment: round it up. And if that doesn't work, of course it's not possible. They're gonna get a little groaning and whining, and they're gonna say that the Secretary of State isn't doing his best. I can say it even more strongly: the Secretary of State has a table of 1 meter by 1 meter at his disposal and the Chamber says to him: here you have a puzzle of 2 meter by 2 meter, make sure it fits. Of course you can't. On all sides the pieces fall off: as animal welfare, there the environment, there the small-scale family farms, there nature, there the organic farmers and there the climate targets. Those are tough boundaries. Those aren't social wishes, the Secretary of State likes to downplay it that way, as if it doesn't matter whether we comply with it or not, but hard facts. Even if we were to drop these preconditions, assuming that we would not take them collectively seriously, and if the Secretary of State could make a bigger table to impose the puzzle, he could not, but if he could, the puzzle would not remain, because under the table lies the bomb of the world market on which Dutch farmers simply cannot compete. Our land is too expensive and our labor is too expensive. So who's kidding who? The problem with livestock farming is that the majority of this Chamber does not have the guts to take the hard borders seriously and say to the farmers: this is what it is like. The only thing the majority does is talk the farmers to the mouth. They say what the farmers want to hear, but in the meantime they send the farmers to the edge of the abyss. The above reminds me of hooligans. I don't know much about soccer. I'll admit it right away. The hooligans, who are supposed to be the biggest supporters, but in reality do great damage to their club and society, are a phenomenon that also occurs in politics. That's always a bit sad: your whole house packed with Feyenoordposters or posters of Ajax or some other club, the club song as ringtone, let your wife sleep under the duvet with the club emblem and go out every day in your Feyenoord training suit. In short, you're the biggest fan, but in reality your club would rather lose you than be rich. And everyone sees it, except for that supporter himself. He really thinks it's club love. Maybe it is thought that the Animal Party exonerates the Secretary of State here by pointing out the false peasant love of VVD, PVV, CDA, SGP and Christian Union, who have plunged the dairy sector into an outright identity crisis, with the Labour Party as a willless melody. However, the Party for Animals certainly does not. There are higher interests to serve than those of pais and love within the coalition. If the VVD manages to silence the Labour Party and push through a CDA agenda in the field of agriculture, then it is always up to the executive, the responsible director, to say: this is irresponsible; this is not possible and I will explain to you why; you can push through your will, Mrs Lodders of the VVD, but I am not going to implement it, because it will plunge the farmers into a deep crisis and it will cost the taxpayer a lot of money; it is wrong policy you are asking. It is suggested that the Secretary of State is trying too little in Brussels. I don't believe that. I think it is a cheap distraction to divert attention from the fact that you yourself asked for these plans, that you have done little better yourself for responsible and sustainable dairy farming. The Party for Animals does not miss a Secretary of State who does his best in Brussels. He'll do it. The Party for Animals lacks a Secretary of State who has the guts to hold the Chamber: what you want will be a tragedy. A Secretary of State who shows leadership, who takes all interests, conditions and hard borders seriously and presents a policy that is sustainable for the future. I understand what the farmers are in, and I also understand what they are asking us to do through the petitions we received this afternoon in the hall. They ask for clarity, but there is also a demand for the possibility of growth. The Party for Animals is about the only party that dares to say honestly that this does not go together. Either we go for clarity: this is the room for dairy farming and we are going to work towards it with a good transitional plan, but we all know that this space is not as large as it is now being suggested. Either we are going for growth, but in that case we will continue to rise against borders which are indeed hardcore. Every time we come up with false solutions that will always take away a little bit of pain, but which will never provide the certainty that farmers should count on. For the sake of setting boundaries and their beneficial effects, I also end up in football: Louis van Gaal. If you set boundaries, anyone in there can move freely, he said. One of these limits is animal welfare. This is getting worse and worse, while society is giving more and more value to the way we deal with animals. You can't get rid of that; that call won't shut down. While we are having the debate here, the Rambam TV programme shows how dying calves, the remainder of dairy farming, are ground to green electricity. This goes against every sense of morale of the citizens of the Netherlands. If, as a member of the cabinet, you acknowledge that society is increasingly attached to the welfare and interests of animals, you know that if the policy continues to grow livestock, if the policy is to ensure that cows are kept stable more often and never come into pasture again, if healthy animals are slaughtered as a result of the policy, you are directly opposed to the legitimate views of the citizens you should have served. Dairy farming is now mainly in an identity crisis. Farmer's up against farmer. That's what you get for pretending everything's possible. If the vulture pit goes over, the cow will be slaughtered. Not just one cow, but 200,000 cow sacrifices should be favourable to Brussels in order to leave the derogation untouched. That is a euphemism for being allowed to deviate from everything that has been agreed. If that is not possible, the stick behind the door is that 480,000 healthy cows are sacrificed on the altar of the economy, not because there is something wrong with those cows, but because everything is wrong with dairy farming. It shows that self-regulation doesn't work. Greed is a worse ailment than foot-and-mouth disease and swine fever, we have to establish. It's sad, but true. Things are exactly the other way around than everyone thought, said Geert Hekkert, chief editor of Boerderij. That's right. In the long-term debate on livestock farming in the Netherlands, nothing is as it seems or at least nothing is as those responsible try to suggest. If you put it positively, you could call the umpteenth crisis in livestock farming the result of an extremely persistent case of wishful thinking. Wish that the Netherlands could be the milkman of the world. Wish to think that environmental and nature rules can be wiped out just like that, after we have gone against borders. Wish to think that the cowboys of the sector will restrain themselves and will not build that megastal because it will cause problems for their fellow farmers. Thinking that the social resistance to the way cows and calves are treated will blow over again. However, there is little cause for positive expression. Wishful thinking sounds a little innocent. Those who have been ruling for years with hard data on the possibilities and, above all, the potential for livestock farming in the Netherlands, must be accused of knowingly causing problems that could all have been avoided. Those are major problems, big and avoidable; for the animals that are being slaughtered massively to save the derogation; for the organic farmers and the family farm, who have to bleed for the greed of the big boys with their houses; for nature, for the environment and for our water, which is much too heavily polluted with manure; and for the taxpayers who are allowed to pay for gambling on someone else's pocket. This is not just about the millions that are being invested in it, but above all about the amounts that the State is likely to have to pay because a majority felt that there should be no legal guarantee. A completely non-binding agreement that the sector as a whole would not let things get out of hand was enough. The situation in which we have ended up is crying over spilled milk, in the most literal sense of the word. Politically, the situation has deliberately gotten out of hand. Once again, I hold the VVD, the PvdA, the CDA, the SGP, the Christian Union and the PVV responsible for sacrificing the lives of hundreds of thousands of perfectly healthy animals and putting agricultural family farms at risk. It's election time. In addition to the shameful, obstinate levering towards the peasant voice, the fight on the right about who knows how to profile as the biggest supporter of the farmers, we will of course soon also get the comparison of the passing-through of the election programmes, the fight for who knows how to profile as the taxpayer's best friend. The Party for Animals never has so much with these bookkeeping debates. What matters is what choices you make when you have actually been chosen. Responsible fiscal policy; remember that as soon as it becomes apparent that many farmers have to be bought out with millions in tax money because these parties choked it to run a responsible agricultural policy. No, the Secretary of State said not to recommend my amendment. That word "responsible" in the title of the legislative proposal Responsible growth dairy farming had to remain, because that would ensure that growth would remain within all environmental limits. That's what LTO and NZO promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u164	Mr Graus has a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u165	I shall be brief, because I can see the farmers leaving the gallery. These people have come from far and wide. What matters to me is that the Party for Animals is once again guilty of lies about the PVV. More and more people are finding out. I just want to say that for the Acts. There is nothing Mrs Ouwehand has said about the PVV which she can support: that we are not friends of nature, that we do not think animals are important. That's bullshit. In fact, most of the motions on animals that the Party for Animals has ever received have been adopted thanks to the support of the PVV. Apart from calling for an end to the bio-industry, no one has achieved as much as the PVV, both for animals and for farmers. So I don't know what Mrs. Ouwehand is talking about with God. However, I simply want this recorded in the Acts. I'm not getting up either, but people aren't retarded. A MP shouldn't be lying. I think that's a real shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u166	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u167	If the PVV agrees that livestock farming grows and grows, every animal born in it must suffer and be slaughtered; a form of animal suffering caused by the PVV. You can't tell me that the plan to bring 200,000 healthy cows to slaughter is animal-friendly. The plan is there, because the PVV felt that dairy farming should grow. If you support that, you're responsible for the consequences. The consequence is that 200,000 healthy animals are brought to slaughter, thanks to the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u168	Otherwise it will happen in Romania.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u169	Otherwise it will happen in Romania. Yeah, we'll get that again. You are responsible for the decisions here about the Dutch dairy herd and you agree that it will grow out of the fold, that animals will be slaughtered there that are healthy and that animals cannot stand on their feet of misery. Thank you for the animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u170	The Party for Animals portrays itself as a lifesaver in the dairy farming sector. Some other parties, including mine, are being dismissed as abandoning dairy farming, or even worse words. That same Animal Party put the farmers here last week as animal traffickers. A colleague, Mrs Thieme, literally said that the road to hell has been paved with sheds of vision. Is Mrs Ouwehand prepared to take back those words on behalf of the Party for Animals? And yet the question is, who's crazy here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u171	The Animal Party has not dismissed the farmers as animal abusers. The Animal Party says that the political landscape here refuses to take animal welfare seriously and allows what happens, just legally, to animals in livestock farming. If you decide to castrate your dog without anesthesia, you're punishable. But if you do that in pig farming with a pig, it's allowed. That is because parties like Mrs Dik-Faber's allow this. That's what we're saying. We're naming that as animal cruelty. Mrs. Dik-Faber wouldn't deny that, would she? It's animal cruelty to cut off defenseless animals, without anesthesia, body parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u172	Last week we had a debate with Mrs Thieme in this Chamber. Probably Mrs. Ouwehand was there. Mrs Thieme has literally said that farmers are animal abusers and that the road to hell is paved with houses of sight. I think that is very bad words. I would very much like those words to be taken back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u173	We didn't say that. We say that there is structural, organised, legal animal abuse in livestock farming. There's no way to deny that. Whoever does, is just lying. And that is facilitated by lack of legislation and regulation. We want to tighten those rules. We want to put an end to the abuse of animals in livestock farming. But farmers are not responsible for this, because they simply use the space that the government offers them to deal with their animals in this way. I will continue my speech. The growth of livestock farming would be entirely justified and would remain within the environmental limits, as LTO and the Dutch Dairy Organisation had promised. The growth of dairy farming would not be a problem, as the sector had promised. The derogation wasn't in any danger at all. The Secretary of State promised that by hand on her heart and waved away all our questions, amendments and motions. After all, milk was the white engine of the economy and self-regulation was the magic word of the sector, which knew what it was doing. And less rules fit perfectly in the collaboration between the VVD and the PvdA. Now hundreds of thousands of animals who were first deprived of their calves and their breast milk must also pay with their lives for a problem to which they have no part. How painful can views of stewardship be? The milk is paid expensively, not by the consumer but by the taxpayer. And that makes the situation even more harrowing. Responsible growth, land-based; the farmers' interests had promised. Just as they promised that 80% of the cows would be in the meadow. But there we are again right before the Christmas trees urgently to deal with a modification of the Fertilisers Act. For the umpteenth year in a row, an emergency plan for dairy farming should be discussed. Growth was irresponsible and exceeded all our environmental limits. Last year, the Netherlands produced 76 billion kilos of manure. That is as many kilos as paper and cardboard are used throughout the European Union. And that's 5 billion kilos more than at the beginning of this cabinet period. Shit to the marble in the most literal sense of the word! This year the manure surplus has only grown. This huge pile of manure not only threatens water quality, soil health and nature in the Netherlands, but thousands of farmers risk going bankrupt. Under the terms of the government agreement, the PvdA Secretary of State had plenty of room to ensure that the manure surplus would be reduced. But they did the opposite. It's easy to point the arrows at the cabinet. The Secretary of State and his predecessors have failed. They had every opportunity to impose restrictions on production, and they did not do so. Even now, when it is actually too late, the cabinet offers no solution, no hope and no vision. There is no beginning of an answer to how it could have come to this and how it should now proceed. I share the criticism of the Secretary of State. I will come back to that in more detail later. The cabinet has not caused its own chaos and problems. And it's not like we weren't informed. The parties I mentioned have butter on their heads and have, perhaps not deliberately but anyway, ignored what we have been warned about. Election vows on sustainable livestock farming have turned out to be a flag on a shit boat. From the report by the Wijffels Committee in 2001, we know that animal numbers must be reduced, but parties do nothing to make that happen. Yeah, now the healthy animals are going to slaughter. But that's not what Wijffels meant by the shrinkage of livestock. The current problem of manure has not just arisen. It was not for nothing that the European Commission said to the Netherlands in 2002: okay, you can drive more manure out on your farmland than is actually justified, so this derogation is more than the farmers in other countries are allowed, but we do attach an important condition to that. The total manure production should not exceed its present level. A system of animal rights was intended to prevent the pig and chicken population from growing further, and for cows there was a European production ceiling: milk quotas. But instead of embracing this restriction of production, the farmers' representatives have always opposed it. More and more had to be produced. The Netherlands has therefore always actively advocated the abolition of milk quotas in Brussels. CDA, VVD and PVV found these production restrictions, which not only had to control the disastrous environmental effects of the livestock, but also kept the prices of milk and meat high, but a thorn in the eye. There has been hard lobbying and success. As of 2015, the European milk quota was abolished. In the run-up to its abolition, which was referred to by LTO, the dairy boys and their political equivalents as liberation day, the dairy herd started to grow well from 2012. So much so that the announcement by the Rutte I cabinet, with Secretary of State Bleeker, that animal production rights on pigs and chickens could not be lifted, could not continue. That seemed like an important warning to me. But the growth of the dairy herd was not restricted. Cows with golden horns, LTO promised the dairy farmers. Every Chinese schoolchild should drink half a litre of milk a day, encouraged by the Dutch model projects in China. It couldn't be helped, while the independent science and government advisory bodies, such as the Planning Office for the Environment, already gave strong warnings about the consequences of the unbridled growth of the dairy herd. In 2010, the PBL said that production limits will remain necessary. In 2011, Cap Gemini repeated that warning. But the cabinet, encouraged by the vast majority of the Chamber and excited by LTO, was hearing deaf and seeing blind. That every week more family farms fell down and more megasthals rose, that the number of cows that still see the meadow decreased dramatically during their lives, that a foreman of ZLTO admitted years ago that about 40% of the manure was illegally dumped, that nature in the Netherlands is suffocated by a stitching rod, that no longer improves water quality for years and that the goals of the Water Framework Directive will never be met in this most cattle-proof country in the world; they chose to ignore all that. The Netherlands had to produce more dairy at all costs. The production restriction of chicken and pig manure was also raised through the so-called POR scheme, which pushed CDA and VVD through it. Therefore, there is now no room to shift anything into the sectoral manure ceilings that have been agreed. Even if pig farmers would like to stop giving the cowboys more room, there is no room for manoeuvre at all because of the political grievances and the desire to win electoral victory. The Netherlands simply produces much and much and much too much manure. We see what this will cost: the life of 200,000 cows and if we are unlucky 400,000. It costs thousands of dairy farmers more money than they can earn when the derogation is lost. The farmers were right to stand in the hallway with their boots. It costs many organic dairy farmers their future. They were also on trial here. It costs taxpayers millions of euros to compensate the dairy farmers for the huge mistakes that have been made. In the debate on the responsible growth of dairy farming, I drew attention to the question of where the milk actually comes from. Disgrace on the whole: how dare I talk about small talk when dealing with the dairy law? However, it is important to remind everyone today what dairy farming is all about: the annual birth of a calf, which is taken directly from its mother and then, if it is a bull, no longer has any value for the dairy farmer. Kalfjes who have to reach slaughter weight at the lowest possible cost, never see the whey and get no milk and attention from their mother, but large amounts of antibiotics not to get too sick in their short lives, that they wear out in large barns. The too light dying calves that are not economically worth raising are burned and then worn out as green electricity to citizens who want to live sustainably. How wretched, chairman, how terribly gruesome. The calves, the reason why cows make milk, are the big blind spot in dairy farming. The fact that cow and calf welfare is not part of the debate on dairy farming is foreign to the world. I want to hear from the Secretary of State how he's gonna make sure this moral blind spot is solved. The fact that animals are not mentioned in the debate on dairy farming is not the only peculiarity in this debate. Today we are talking about phosphate rights and land-based dairy farming, two ominous concepts that are worth looking at before we can discuss the present legislative proposal and all the problems it raises. Phosphate rights are the first thing we discuss. This bill brings rights to life. There are pig rights and poultry rights in Dutch law, but these are unfortunately not rights for pigs, chickens and turkeys. It means that farmers are allowed to keep a certain quantity of pigs and chickens. This bill creates phosphate rights, i.e. rights for farmers, although of course they are not necessarily there either. It is not a right to get a good price for a product, so that they do not have to live below the minimum standard of living with the whole family or to be protected from unfair competition by trade deals such as TTIP and CETA, no, it is the right to pollute. There is no such right, and that is a good thing. Everyone must take care of our shared environment and resources. No one has the right to leave that and so to pollute. A pollution right does not exist and should therefore not exist in an economic system and should certainly not be freely negotiable, as the cabinet proposes. Now I come to landboundness and land-based dairy farms. What exactly are those? As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, these are farms with their own land around the stable, where the animals can feed on. So that's not a megastal somewhere in North Holland or anywhere else, that runs the manure on rented land in Drenthe on which lilies are grown, ghost soils. This has nothing to do with closed circles and sustainable agriculture. Animal welfare is far from complete. What the cabinet calls "ground-bound" is not ground-bound. In preparing for the import of phosphate rights, major political mistakes have been made, which are now making sure that next year there will be no legal restriction on any further growth of the dairy herd, errors that will cause the derogation of all dairy farmers to be lost. Let us be clear that the Animal Party sees that the derogation leads to unacceptable environmental pollution. So we are not in favour of a derogation. The way in which we are now going to lose the derogation is killing farmers. It's a cold cleanup, so only the megastalcowboys will be standing up soon. That is not the future of agriculture that we see before us or the future that farmers deserve. There must be a clear answer to the question of how these mistakes could have happened. There's ten of them. Error one: abolition of the milk quota without replacing a production-limiting element, while for years we have been warned that this would exceed the environmental limits. Does the Secretary of State see, afterwards, that it was a big mistake not to have a stick behind the door and only to rely on the promises made by the foremen of LTO and NZO, while the dairy population's growth figures have shown an image of exponential growth since 2012? Does he also recognise that he shares this responsibility with parties such as CDA, VVD and PVV, which have thwarted any production restrictions on livestock farming? Error two: how could the Secretary of State not foresee that the issuance of phosphate rights would not be classified as State aid? I really don't understand any of that. With his predecessor, Secretary of State Dijksma, we discussed various possibilities for reducing production. She insisted that she had examined all the possibilities from the grievance and that only phosphate rights would be a viable option. She rejected our proposal for the introduction of grazing livestock units, in which social conditions would be taken into account in many more ways. It wouldn't be feasible. Phosphate rights, that was the way. And it turns out that the government has not assessed State aid? How does the Secretary of State explain this state of affairs? In the explanatory memorandum to the letter of amendment, he himself pointed out that the NO rights constituted State aid. Would he have known in advance that these phosphate rights would simply constitute illegal state aid? How is that possible? He insisted on the marketability of phosphate rights, but that, of course, meant that the European Commission would not agree. Yet there was no plan-B, no safety net. Will the Secretary of State continue to insist that it was not necessary to have a plan B? Editor-in-chief Geert Hekker van de Boerderij wrote a sharp column about it, with a rake analysis. So things are exactly the other way around than everyone thought. The story was that phosphate rights would be needed to stay within the ceiling and now it appears that the Netherlands can only import duties after it is below the ceiling. I really do not understand why the Secretary of State still insists on the marketability of phosphate rights. There's no good argument for that. Is he too scared to sell the VVD no? In fact, if phosphate rights were not to become negotiable, they could be introduced for the coming year and this would significantly increase the chances of maintaining the derogation. I'd like an explanation. As Weir also said beautifully, who would be better off being negotiable? The brokers, the banks, the lawyers, the traders, but not the farmers, not the cows, not the environment and not the taxpayers, who will soon have to pay for buying out the big cowboys, if, of course, next time it becomes clear that manure production will have to go back even further than what the government is now taking into account. Error three: the readings. The predecessor of the Secretary of State sent a letter in 2013 which, in her view, would be considered a reference date for the introduction of production limits. The Council of State and the Land Attorney cut that line of reasoning, which now rewards the big growers who built just more mega stables after that announcement, and simply stands in their right, something that, in her opinion, would be totally impossible. How did that happen? How is it that apparently no legal check has been made on the legal sustainability of that announcement by Secretary of State Dijksma? This Secretary of State wants us to believe that with the legislative proposals we are discussing today and with the plan presented by the sector, there is a solution that will save livestock farming and also the derogation. The only reason he has to keep doing that today is that he will be done in March 2017. In the progress of this file, more errors are stacked. The mistakes about the present package. Mistake four: according to the European Commission, phosphate rights should only be introduced if there is an extra environmental interest in it, if there is more environmental gain than there is a legal obligation under European rules. The Secretary of State has still not implemented this. This also means that the present application of phosphate rights will not pass the European test and that means: no production limit, no derogation and a disaster for animals, the environment and farmers. Error five: competition. The Secretary of State reports on the present package that he will have to check with Brussels to see if it fits into the competition rules. Network Thoroughly draws its own conclusion on this: no, it does not fit, because the State Secretary creates a cartel and that is not allowed. I think it is very likely that the Consumer and Market Authority and the European Commission will come to that conclusion. In other Member States, too, there is a crisis in livestock farming. If, for example, France announced a similar arrangement to that made by this State Secretary, the State Secretary immediately complained to the European Commission about illegal interference with the free market. The parties in the Chamber would be mercilessly behind him until he took action and managed to get the European Commission to intervene against France. I'm pretty sure. So this part of the solution package presented by the Secretary of State is not sustainable either. Error six: the feed trail. That mysterious word is the answer to everything, if we can believe the Secretary of State. Less phosphate in feed: the solution for all your manure problems. Sounds good of course, if it isn't that this fantasy has been promoted for about twenty years and hasn't delivered anything in the meantime. In 1997 it was already called: the railroad is largely exploited. That's how Willem Weil wrote last week in Farmhouse. The Secretary of State knows this, the sector knows that, and more importantly, Brussels knows it. After all, the transport track has been part of the nitrate action plans for many years, without any results. If the Secretary of State wishes to continue to argue in this debate today that the railroad is really the panacea, I challenge him to come up with concrete figures, in which he outlines the results of recent years and provides a substantiated forecast of the profits that can be achieved in 2017 in concrete terms. He can't, so this land is also falling away. Error seven: our meadows disappear. The cows disappear behind the closed doors of megastables. Grassland's being ploughed. There is another problem. I haven't heard anyone else talk about this, but it's going to be a mess. When the European common agricultural policy was last amended, one greening requirement was imposed on dairy farming as a condition for billions of income support. One requirement is that the area of permanent grassland should not decrease by more than 5%. Can the Secretary of State tell us where we are at the moment? It seems that we are already at that critical border. If more pasture is ploughed away, dairy farming loses its right to income support. And that is the end of this sector. I'd like to hear an extensive response. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that pastures are preserved and grazed? His plans so far do not provide any incentive in this direction. Wrong eight: the problem control. Attorneys tell us that the current problem regulation is far from satisfactory and that the farmers affected by the current bill have a very great chance of winning the proceedings against the State, which means that the State will have to pay millions in compensation. Is that responsible budgetary policy? Has there even been a calculation made about what that will cost? With a view to a future parliamentary inquiry, I certainly do not rule out the possibility of it being carried out, and I would be grateful if the Secretary of State would give an honest answer. Mistake nine: despite all the broken promises of the LTO and related lobbyists of the megastalcowboys, the Secretary of State continues to believe in the promise of sector organisations that do not stand at all for all farmers in the sector and that no one can keep any deal at all. I would like to receive a response to the observation of the editor of Boerderij. He writes: "Van Dam still swears that he is in consultation with the sector to limit phosphate production in 2017. But the past has taught us that the sector itself cannot cope with this. The latest i&r figures show an increase in livestock. And there is a great danger that everyone will think after this demasque: after me the flood. After all, the steering effect of the AMvB's land-based growth dairy farming is unclear. The stables are now full and the first farmers are thinking about ordering cows from their merchant." Cows to order, and why wouldn't they? No one alone is responsible for the derogation. A poll also shows that a quarter of all dairy farmers really do not feel the need to set aside their own growth plans for maintaining the derogation in the interests of all farmers. There is no legislation to stop these individual growth plans. So what does the Secretary of State base his trust on after the failure of any previous agreement with the sector? Error ten: there is no support for the plans. This is also evident from the alternative plan of land-based and organic farmers, from the departure of the driver from ZuivelNL and from the survey carried out by Milieudefensie and the Network. And let it be an important condition for the Nitrate Committee to agree. So here too, the Secretary of State and the plan presented by the dairy industry do not meet the conditions. These ten errors are likely to lead to an end to the derogation. The spokesmen of the CDA, the VVD, the SGP, the PVV and the Christian Union will call on the Secretary of State to finally stand up for their farmers in Brussels tonight. That's a farce. The same spokesperson is partly responsible for the fact that, according to experts, the possibility of retaining derogation is only about 20%. And if they are honest, they also remember the discussions with Secretary of State Dijksma about the previous negotiations on the derogation. At that time, the Netherlands produced just below the phosphate ceiling. So the problem at the time was a little smaller than it is now. But even then, in Brussels, the Secretary of State had to talk the blisters on her tongue, and we all know that she can talk well in order to maintain the derogation. The chance that this Secretary of State will succeed under much and much more difficult circumstances is not very great. Experts say 20%. I call that a very minor success factor. The biggest mistake of the package proposed by the cabinet and the dairy industry is that it is destroying the only dairy farming sector that is still doing a little, or even a lot, to produce sustainably: land-based extensive and organic farmers. The Secretary of State is focusing on a shrinkage of the dairy herd. According to Rabobank, 10% of dairy farmers will quit. That should give air to the rest of the sector. But can the Secretary of State confirm that especially the smaller, more extensive and ground-based family businesses will cease to exist in the coming years and that the space that will be released with this will be resurrected by the bigger boys? These are the dairy farmers who have filled their stables in recent years with cows who never get to see a pasture. Does he think that's desirable? Is the Secretary of State prepared to admit that his policy is killing the extensive livestock industry in our country and driving further industrialisation? I'd like some figures from the Secretary of State. Who's stopping? Who's going through? What does that do with the average number of cows, with groundboundness and grazing? For organic farmers, the bill is simply incredibly unfair. It is indigestible that you have to turn in to maintain a derogation that you do not use yourself. How wretched is it that the demand for organic dairy is growing and is greater than the Dutch supply, but that organic dairy farming still has to shrink because the cabinet has allowed the megastal cowboys to grow unbridled? How wretched is it that the only sector that actually works on land closes the loops, has a high priority for animal welfare and is working without agricultural poison and fertilizer, now that the lack of sensible and forward-looking policies is being undermined? "I've only been allowed to use 170 kilos of nitrogen from animal manure per hectare, while others have always been allowed to use 250 kilos. But I'm gonna have to tie in anyway. That's weird, of course. It's like I have to pay the speeding ticket for my neighbor. In addition, I can dispose of all the manure from the dairy branch on my own land. With this government policy, my property is, as it were, taken away from me." That's what Rikus Renting from the Drenthe Erm says. What does the Secretary of State say to this farmer? At least I can't explain it. Does the Secretary of State agree with the Animal Party that the usual dairy farmers should take an example to their biological colleagues? Then why is he not prepared to spare the organic dairy farmers? They did not contribute to the production of the manure surplus. More importantly, because the organic guidelines are based on environmentally friendly production, these farmers do not systematically dump too much manure on their land. In other words, they do not make use of the derogation. Why do they have to pay for the late attempts by the Secretary of State to maintain the derogation and for the failing policies that preceded it? Of course, this sector also produces manure, but this manure is used to a large extent on its own land, to produce animal feed or is used by organic farmers. In addition, organic farmers still feed part of common manure because there is not enough organic manure available. Isn't it crazy to want to reduce organic milk and manure production in favour of cowboys? The goat and sheep industry in our country also produces manure, but according to the State Secretary this is so little that this sector does not have to participate in attempts to get within the national manure ceiling. Then why does organic dairy farming have to? The Animal Party recommends that organic dairy farming should not be included in achieving the manure production ceiling and that the derogation of the goat and sheep industry should be given to organic farmers. This will not only ensure that the organic sector is not sacrificed to the bio-industry, but also that the goat and sheep industry no longer gets away with the stashing of thousands of animals in megalomania, with all the major risks to public health. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The only thing the Secretary of State intends to do for the biological sector is to compensate all or part of these, like the other land-based establishments with latent placement space, for the generic skimming. That is not only very vague, it is far from enough. The mandatory land binding of organic livestock farms is, according to the European organic regulations, different from that defined in the present legislative proposal. Organic legislation means that organic manure must always be used on certified organic land, either on the dairy farmer's own land or on the ground of another certified organic farm, which will then have to enter into a cooperation which is once again monitored annually by Skal. This also means that the land-boundness as contained in the bill is in the way of organic dairy farmers. They also place manure on arable farms which in turn depend on it for their organic fruit, vegetables and cereals. Does the Secretary of State not see that it is strange that the definition of land-boundness as currently contained in the law does give room to megastal farmers who sell their land to lily growers, while the cows stand on stables for the year, but do not allow for the closed recycling system as laid down in biological legislation? Is he gonna stand behind this? Or is he prepared to adapt it so that the ground-based rules promote sustainable agriculture in our country and stop the intensification of agriculture? A number of organic dairy farms are therefore not land-based according to the definition in the cabinet's bill. According to the State Secretary's own figures, this is about 46 companies in 2015. There aren't many of them. The Party of Animals thinks we should come to the aid of these companies. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider all organic farms as land-based, including those which have so far met their mandatory land-based requirements in the form of cooperation with another organic certified company? Organic dairy farmers, together with land-based farmers and environmental and animal welfare organisations, have drawn up a plan to prevent chilly clean-up in the most sustainable dairy farming sectors. They propose a maximum number of cows per hectare and link the phosphate rights to be issued to possess enough land to produce the animal feed and feed the animals. That plan aims to switch to a fully land-based dairy farming within five years. In concrete terms, after that five-year transitional period, farmers may keep up to 2.3 livestock units per hectare, including young cattle. In order to avoid increasing production per cow at the expense of animal welfare, it also sets a maximum of 16,750 kilograms of milk per hectare. It is only fair that the big growers, those who have caused the problems, pay for the consequences and that land-based farmers are spared. The Secretary of State must agree with that, right? So in the first year, 2017, a substantial shrinkage of more than 2.3 cows per hectare is realized. That can be regulated by law. The sector will not realize that itself. I would like to table this plan as an amendment, but it is complicated, because it requires different laws to be amended. It's wise to do it. I would like to present it in detail to the Chamber, with a comprehensive response from the Secretary of State. I would like him to undertake to cooperate in the elaboration of this in order to assess whether or not the Court agrees. The advantage of the plan would be that the manure surplus in the Netherlands would decrease significantly and that the derogation could be maintained. For now, the Party for Animals says so. As has already been said, derogations are not sacred to us. The organic sector shows that a healthy livestock farming can do just fine with 170 kilos of phosphate per hectare. That's a lot better for the environment and nature. Plan B, as the organisations call it applicable, it also happens to be the title of the Party for Animals' electoral programme, but that, by the way, helps to make the whole dairy farming truly land-bound. That's what it takes. It is also in line with the plan for grazing livestock units, a system proposed by former CDA Minister Braks in 1990. It's a lot like this plan. It not only guarantees the soil-boundness and closure of the nutrient loops, but it can also prevent production from being increased unnaturally per animal. For example, grazing livestock units not only contribute to reducing the manure surplus, but also to improving animal welfare and animal health. In short, the proposal spares farmers who are already working truly soil-based or even organically and forces the megastable cowboys to make their operations sustainable and animal-friendly. This system will make small, extensive dairy farming in the Netherlands future-proof and will ensure the well-being of both farmers, animals and the environment. So get rid of the phosphate rights. Also away with trading it. Just back to the base, the bottom. You can keep cows if you have enough land to feed and feed them. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, therefore, there will also be an obligation to pasture. This plan, which the sustainable dairy farmers have worked out, would give a firm push in this direction, as it is based on sufficient land for each cow. I want the Secretary of State to take this alternative plan seriously and give the Animal Party an opportunity to look together with his ministry at the possibility of working it out. We have already tried to take it into account in one amendment, but it turns out to be too complicated. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give a serious chance to the plan of organic farmers, animal welfare organisations and environmental organisations? It offers the best opportunity to maintain a derogation, I would add. There's a bit of a grunt, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u174	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u175	Yes, I just wanted to say thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u176	Mrs Ouwehand talks about 170 kilograms of phosphate per hectare, but it is 170 kilograms of nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u177	Excuse me, I've spoken for so long that I may have slipped up occasionally; that might just happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u178	That's exactly my point. Mrs Ouwehand has taken an enormous amount of air time. That's her right. I've heard a lot of bullshit and a lot of falsehoods. I don't think it's weird that some people went out for coffee. I didn't interrupt. I'm not gonna do that now. Mrs Ouwehand has already received sufficient transmission time in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u179	I'm going to suspend for a few minutes before we continue with the following speakers. Do you have a question for Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u180	I have a question for you, Mr. Chairman. If we are having a serious debate here, then surely it is not possible that someone is not interrupting, but is going to say at the end that it is all nonsense what has been said? That's not the way we're having a debate here, is it, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u181	There have been calls from the beginning of this debate on and on all sorts of things. You did not make any comments. You too have made all kinds of comments to others. In this debate this can be done, as long as it is done in a respectful manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u182	That's the point. I don't think it's respectful anymore when you end up with a story, no matter how much you disagree there, yells: you've just been yelling nonsense, but I'm not gonna interrupt you. That's really very weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u183	No, they're free to do that. Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Grashoff has a point, but I thought that everyone can draw that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u185	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I'm sticking to everyone's point. I'm suspending the meeting for a maximum of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u186	I shall reopen the sitting and give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u187	Mr. Chairman. Over the past few weeks I have been allowed to attend meetings with hundreds of dairy farmers. The evening in the IJsselhallen with about a thousand farmers will stay with me for a long time. I got a lump in the throat when a farmer's secretary of state addressed Van Dam personally. She asked him if she still had the right to exist. Her company was in his hands and that terrified her. A fair question and a cry for help. It is important that we, as spokesmen for agriculture and as representatives of the people, be aware that this question and cry live with many farmers and their families. And yes, farmers in the Netherlands have a right to exist. They take care of our food. I stand in front, next to and behind the peasants and peasants. If the electorate gives me that after March 2017, I will continue to say it to the fire and to the sword and fight for them in this Chamber. Then the cry "my company is in your hands, and that scares the hell out of me." I understand this cry for help. Secretary of State Van Dam has been Secretary of State for a year and in that year a chaos has arisen surrounding the introduction of phosphate rights. In the course of the legislative process, I have been surprised and angry at the way in which this could derail. Last night I was in Boxtel. At the end of the evening I got a key pressed in my hands by a dairy farmer. His request was to hand over this key to the Secretary of State. If the Secretary of State wasn't going to fight for his company, he wouldn't need that key anymore. The great uncertainty and the profound consequences for beautiful family businesses go through me. The uncertainty is so great that the banks have frozen funding. Uncertainty is increased by the accumulation of rules, mandatory manure processing, soil-based growth and the introduction of phosphate rights. The uncertainty is fuelled by the behaviour of the VVD/PvdA cabinet, such as the introduction of phosphate rights. In July 2015, a reference date for phosphate duties was set, but the law that had to regulate all this did not come to the Chamber until more than a year later. Under the leadership of the Secretary of State, VVD and PvdA have had the opportunity to discuss possible measures for more than a year. It looks very much like time has been thrown away and the time that was there has not been used. Once the law is in place and we are dealing with it in the Chamber, a devil comes out of the box: there are objections from Brussels to state aid, the Secretary of State says. Again a lot of uncertainty for the sector. That is why tonight I ask the Secretary of State how this chaos has arisen. The CDA Group and the other parties have requested a written and oral account of the facts. Why didn't the Secretary of State give a clear answer? One simple question to the Secretary of State: how many times has he been to Brussels to talk about the phosphate rights system and the derogation? I would ask the Secretary of State not to come up with the reply last week, namely that there are many conversations at official level and that he is there himself if necessary. That is what the report says. We cannot and must not shift responsibility to officials. 18,000 families depend on your commitment, Secretary of State! The Secretary of State should have been there long ago. He should've moved his tent up there. How can I and how can our dairy farmers have confidence in the successful outcome of maintaining the derogation? The Secretary of State expects farmers to do well. What's the Secretary of State gonna do? On two nights with dairy farmers I heard him say that Brussels had made a mistake and that the derogation for 2017 was in danger. It's amazing how he sent the farmers to Brussels with their worries and anger. There was no question of any self-reflection of the Secretary of State. Are the priorities okay? That's how I ask him. Does the Secretary of State still believe he's not to blame? What is he going to do to maintain the derogation? Where can I read in the Chambers that the derogation for 2017 is at stake, as I heard him say on those nights? Why are the conditions attached to the 2014-2017 derogation not adjusted? Then it's about our commitment. The CDA is very aware that something needs to be done to comply with the current derogation decision and to obtain a further derogation. Now I am not going to repeat our written input tonight, but I am going to go through a number of bottlenecks. We are prepared to accept our responsibility, but the CDA Group does not just sign off on the cross. I have tabled a number of amendments which are very important for the CDA to vote in favour of this law. I would like to mention the most important ones, which I have submitted together with Mr Dik-Faber. Under the Law on land-based growth dairy farming, I tabled an amendment to allow feed-fertiliser contracts to take account of de facto land use by the dairy farmer in his immediate vicinity. I want the dairy farmer within a 20 km radius of his farm to be able to count land he uses for roughage and on which the manure is deposited for the soil bondage. The CDA wants more guarantees that the circular guide will be there. That is why we have tabled an amendment to that effect. The CDA wants a better regulation for cases, to enable companies that have made substantial investments well before 2 July 2015, if the Advisory Committee considers this to be fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u188	Let's talk about the feed-fertilizer contracts. It is now also happening that farmers make agreements with their neighbours in order to be able to spread the manure there across the country. That is fine in itself, but it is not clear to me whether this amendment means that you can take extra cows if you conclude such an agreement. Well, then that's actually not really ground-bound. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u189	I have just heard that the President is asking for a short answer. This amendment does not allow more cows to be used, purchased or used with the manure feed contract. Dairy farming is therefore limited if the Phosphorus Rights Act is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u190	I'd like to be triggered by the word "just like that." I understand that it is not possible, but it is important that you cannot buy cows in order to produce more milk without having both legal and economic ownership. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u191	Then I'll have to give you a longer answer. I didn't mean the word "just like that" if you explain it now. The manure feed contract and the amendment do not ensure that cows can be kept there. You now assume that more cows can be kept. The point is that we use existing situations to better regulate the soil density of dairy farmers. There is also a limitation: around 20 km. I have also seen questions from the D66 Group about manure marriages and such things. That is not the issue, I say to the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u192	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u193	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, we are not talking about generic cuts in poultry and pig rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u194	I also have a question about the feed-fertilizer contract. I assume that does not fill the entire space, but that this can only be part of a solution. Can Mr Geurts indicate what percentage or part of the feed-fertilization contracts he is thinking of?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u195	The question is whether space can be occupied. The shortest answer is no. I would like to say to the SP Group that this amendment is aimed at closing loops and feeding off our own soil. The share of exports we get from abroad is reduced in this way. It also has advantages for sustainable cooperation between landowners and a farmer. I think the SP should appeal to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u196	I think this is quite general. Can I conclude from this that the essence of a land-based farm........................................................................................................................................................... Is that key point going to stick?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u197	Every cow is grounded, Mr Van Gerven. When you see that she has more legs off the ground, you should call the veterinarian immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u198	Mr President, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u199	I see that Mr Van Gerven wishes to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u200	Yes. Perhaps Mr Geurs can give a serious answer. It was a serious question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u201	I didn't smile at the answer I gave. Mr Van Gerven did so when I said it. I'm serious. I notice that a number of parties are looking for the statement that this is an additional escape route for farmers to be able to keep more cows. Dear people, if the Phosphate Act is there, that's the limiting factor. Then we can ask it a hundred times, but I cannot give a better and shorter answer than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u202	I am curious to see how Mr Geurts' proposal relates to a farm which is not only a crop within 20 km of feed and manure disposal, but is actually ground-bound. This may still have many gradients, but as I understand Mr Geurts' proposal, it may also mean that a number of cows are kept in a pot-tight stall and that the feed is produced within the circle and the manure is disposed of. Is that a desirable image? Is this possible in Mr Geurts' proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u203	This view is not desirable in society, and that is not what we want with this amendment. However, tax legislation is not 100% closed either. That is not any legislation. If we look back at this at the end of the evening or tonight, we may well be able to think of a few examples. I don't know. I have thought about it, because I expected these questions, particularly from Mr Grashoff's party and from a number of other parties. However, I do not see a gap in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u204	That is in itself a good and honest answer from Mr Geurts, but the ultimate effect of such a measure does concern me a little. Isn't that yet another contribution in the direction we don't want? If I understand correctly, Mr Geurts would not want to go that way either. It's also socially undesirable. Is it not wise, then, to introduce some sort of guarantee into Mr Geurts' proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u205	Mr Dijkgraaf spoke about keys to the fire engine that the Secretary of State has. Mr Grashoff wants double locks, extra double locks and something else on a safe door. I just don't think that's a good idea. This will result in a drastic increase in the administrative burden on dairy farming, and we are not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u206	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u207	As far as we are concerned, there is no question of generic cuts in poultry and pig rights. These sectors make little or no contribution to exceeding the ceiling. We have therefore tabled an amendment to delete this possibility. I have also tabled several amendments which should be more practical. I assume that all these CDA proposals will be considered positive by the Secretary of State. Mr President, of course you are dealing with order, but if I have to mention all of them, I am still working on it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u208	I have a question about the amendment which does not allow for a generic reduction in the poultry and pig farming sectors. Does Mr Geurts want the same scenario as the one we are now seeing in dairy farming? In the poultry sector and pig farming, too, we see exceedances of the ceilings. In his reply, the Secretary of State states that he considers that the hook, as Mr Geurts calls it, is really necessary in order to intervene in the event of an emergency. Isn't governance also forward-looking?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u209	The CDA takes the view that each sector should solve its own problems. In this law, it is made possible, through one pen stroke of the Secretary of State or the Cabinet, if one sector fails to reach another sector. This seems to me to be very unfair to, for example, the poultry sector, which has done everything in its power to process and cultivate manure and, if necessary, to dispose of it outside Dutch agriculture. If one sector fails, I say to Mr Van Gerven, will he take the risk that another sector will have to pay for it? I also believe that this legislation is aimed at dairy farming. We should not confuse them with other sectors. There are very different problems there. I think that this should be looked at quite differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u210	Governing is forward-looking. We have seen that pig farming has also exceeded the ceiling, that there are also problems in the poultry sector and that there can be overruns. In view of the tragedy that we are witnessing in dairy farming, is it not the case that we allow ourselves to be beaten out of the instruments to intervene if necessary? That's not forward-looking and forward-looking, is it? Mr Geurts says that every sector must solve it itself, but we see in dairy farming that this is not happening. There are major problems, which we are now debating. Why does the CDA allow itself to be lobbied on this point by the sector itself, which apparently does not want regulation, while it is necessary for emergencies? Where the market fails, should the government be able to intervene and regulate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u211	I would remind Mr Van Gerven that pig farming and poultry farming are limited by production rights. In the states one can see that the swinging is relatively small. In one year there is an overrun due to some phosphate-rich feeds. In the same year we also see this in dairy farming. Mr Dijkgraaf had not mentioned it yet, but this too could be pulled out of the ceiling. After all, if there has been a very phosphate-rich harvest once in a year, you cannot immediately tackle an entire sector. That's not my intention. It is certainly not our commitment to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u212	I can be very brief. I would have mentioned it, but I didn't mention it that way. I was talking about the occasional peaks. I would like to underline Mr Geurts's speech and his question to the Secretary of State to focus on this in particular. I understand that Mr Geurts agrees with me that there should be no structural policy at occasional peaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u213	I will be happy to pass this question on to the Secretary of State. I apologise to Mr Dijkgraaf. Probably at that time, at least in my head, I was in the process of supplying that fire truck with snakes. The CDA sees the date of 2 July 2015 as a bottleneck. The Christian Union Group, together with us, has tabled an amendment setting out a reference period in addition to the reference date. This is what we expect to solve most of the problem with beef cuts. I also propose an amendment with the Christian Union Group to prevent the phosphate bank from being used for sustainability. The bill is aimed at regulation and that already hurts a lot. There should be no further demands on this. I am concerned about the effect of the current law on livestock farmers. Can the Secretary of State take care of these concerns? I ask the Secretary of State who gets phosphate rights in livestock farming and who doesn't. I am also concerned about the lack of an end date, because this makes tax opportunities seem to be cut short. Through the chairman, I say to Mr Dijkgraaf that he must pay attention now. Mr Dijkgraaf was somewhat earlier in tabling an amendment on this subject. I am prepared to support that. I would like to hear whether the Secretary of State can go along with this and allow fiscalisation, as is the case with other pig and poultry production rights. The CDA considers that the current proposal for the introduction of phosphate rights is unfair to several family businesses. Ground-based or organic holdings may be affected disproportionately. Companies which have not grown in numbers or even shrunk in recent years can also be disproportionately affected. There are also examples of non-land-based farms and other variants that can be disproportionately affected. This does not seem to us to be the intention of introducing phosphate rights. I ask the Secretary of State what else he can and will do for all these companies, apart from embracing our amendments. I come to the business package. That package came under great pressure of time when the cabinet failed. Business now needs to intervene in 2017 with the limited possibilities it has. Is it customary for industry to impose such a regulation, which it itself will have considerable economic pain? My answer to that question is "no." It is unprecedented how the Dutch sector sticks its neck out with this. The package of measures has a number of sides on which we would like to question the Secretary of State. The implementation of the sector plan aims to ensure that we are already below the phosphate ceiling in 2017. Is skimming still necessary in case of transfer? How does the generic skimming fit in with the reduction of the sector plan and vice versa? It should be avoided that companies will have to return further in 2017 than in 2018 on the basis of the phosphate rights system. In addition, industry needs a very short-term declaration of no objection from the European Commission to competition law. Is the Secretary of State himself going to Brussels for this? The message must come from the European Commission summit: we must do this for the Netherlands. That should have been done before, but now completely; otherwise the sector plan will not go ahead and without a derogation, phosphate rights will no longer be good for anything. In order to make the European Commission aware of the urgency, the Secretary of State, and perhaps the Prime Minister, is needed. Does the Secretary of State understand that? I come to the content of the plan. It's three tracks. On the most important track, the phosphate reduction, the Secretary of State gives very little information. How does the plan fit in with the phosphate rights system? Is the plan of the sector taking into account the problems, the regulations and the amendment I have tabled on them? Does the plan of the sector take account of the Court's intention to exempt land-based companies? Does the voluntary reduction in phosphate go beyond the reference, or does it go beyond the reference, as the letter now states? The phosphate rights system and the business package require the utmost of our family farms in dairy farming. They are committed to maintaining the derogation. This brings me to the commitment to the Sixth Action Programme. So I come back to what I started with: the commitment of the Secretary of State and the Cabinet in Brussels. The urgency is enormous in order to obtain the necessary explanation of no objection to a general statement of the sectoral plan. We are also a long way from a new derogation and a workable sixth action programme. The commitment needed for this is therefore more than enormous. Is there going to be a bet? In the letter of 3 March 2016, the Secretary of State makes every effort to negotiate the new derogation, such as the dropping of the phosphate reduction ceiling, the sealing of manure that can be found outside Dutch agriculture and the use of a mineral concentrate as a fertilizer substitute in addition to the standard for animal manure. The latter leads to a reduction in the use of fertilizers and to an extension of the possibilities for the application of animal manure. It also fits in with the circular economy advocated by the CDA. Is this still the Secretary of State's commitment? Why is it that manure that is demonstrably disposed of outside Dutch agriculture is not already being sold? This is a repeat of the question that Mr Dijkgraaf has already asked. Soon the Dutch government will give its first presentation in the Nitrate Committee for the action programme. The CDA Group wants to know what will be told and what reports are at the basis of this. Is that possible and is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? The CDA actually wants the Secretary of State to break down the doors of the Commissioners concerned every week until it is settled. Does the Secretary of State understand that? Knowing how things went with the introduction of the Phosphorus Rights System Act, I want more certainty than the words of the Secretary of State. The CDA wants a biweekly state of affairs to be brought to the Chamber, including the actions and follow-up steps carried out. I'm rounding up. The Secretary of State didn't get any further than: I'm going to do my best for you. After some pressure from the audience, he said, "I'm going to fight for you." Now promises at the VVD/PvdA cabinet are made rather easily and even more easily broken. So I ask the Secretary of State whether he really is going to fight for our beautiful family farms in agriculture. The phosphate rights system causes pain, a lot of pain in some groups of family businesses. How's the Secretary of State handling that? What perspective does he offer the next generation? We ask the family companies for an almost non-executable sacrifice. I expect the Secretary of State to simply convince the Nitrate Committee and the other Member States that the Netherlands deserves a derogation. We have the best farmers in the Netherlands and we have the best farmers in the world. The family farms in agriculture, horticulture and fisheries deserve to fight for. I'm not going to hesitate about that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u214	I hear the CDA asking if the Secretary of State is prepared for self-reflection. However, I did not hear any self-reflection from the CDA. I can only hear the CDA say: try harder! I have mentioned a number of reasons in my contribution, which do not mean that there is a great chance of a derogation. They are simply fixed agreements: there must be an extra environmental interest in the introduction of phosphate rights, it must not be contrary to the competition rules and there must be support for the plan presented. Mr Geurts knows that. The possibility of retaining the derogation is less than 20%. What puts the CDA on the other hand, other than cheaply calling for the Secretary of State to do more? The CDA must then come up with substantive proposals that fit in with the maintenance of the derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u215	Mrs Ouwehand of the Animal Party speaks to me as if we were in a coalition, but we are not. She might be surprised, but we're not in there. As representatives of the people, we are dealing with a law that comes to the Chamber from the cabinet. Mrs Ouwehand knows that she has been there a few times and it has been referred to a few times this evening that we have regularly asked with various other parties where the law is, etcetera, etc. Now that the law is in place, there are amendments from the CDA. I believe that the CDA is one of the top proposers of amendments. These are amendments, Mrs Ouwehand. That's the course the CDA indicates. Would we like it to be very different? Yes. Mr Dijkgraaf has already mentioned some of these points, but they are not feasible at the moment. We have to be realistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u216	I am not addressing Mr Geurts at all because I think the CDA is in the coalition. I appeal to him on his responsibility to put his hand in the air next Tuesday or not and to support the government's approach. If the people's representatives in the Chamber are warned of the fact that very large grounds fall under the cabinet's approach to maintaining that derogation, surely you can not just say: yes, but the CDA wants that derogation, so the cabinet must do its best? Then you have to say: this has to be settled, that has to be settled, grasslands are a problem for farmers' income support, the basis is a problem. We know how the Nitrates Committee judges, don't we? We've been having these debates in this Chamber for years, haven't we? The CDA knows that the possibility of derogation is shrinking and shrinking, even with amendments it itself submits. The CDA has to take responsibility for the outcome that will come. You can't make it so easy that you just say, "Well, we should have sent the Prime Minister." The Prime Minister can't force a derogation with bad plans. That's the way it is!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u217	Mrs Ouwehand comes up with a proposal to drive away 70% of livestock farming in the Netherlands. With such plans perhaps some of the things she wants could be arranged. But it must also be possible to deal with the proposals that lie here and with the unbridled commitment of the Secretary of State and the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u218	Still, it's a very serious question. Mr. Geurts is super critical. I am no less critical of it, and that applies to many groups here. But the key question is, of course, whether the path that has now been taken can be reasonably successful and in what way we can ensure that it is successful together. I think it would be a good idea for Mr Geurts to give an assessment of this, especially from the connection he is showing here with the agricultural sector. He'd have to find something like that. I fully agree with him that he should not be blamed for government responsibility, but that does not relieve us of the duty to make an assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u219	I think that all of those "glass ball" questions. Those are like-dan questions. There's a lot of work to be done. It's an enormous amount of work. A lot of the civil service in the Netherlands will be asked for. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? If everyone wants to stick their necks out for that, we can come a long way. Is there a chance of success, is there a chance of success, is it what percent? I don't have a glass ball. I can't add a percentage to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u220	That is an honest answer in itself. If I understand Mr Geurts correctly, he agrees with me that at least there is no certainty about maintaining that derogation. If we choose this route, we'll leave all the people here in the public gallery in uncertainty for another full year. After all, we choose a route that is not sure that it will be successful. How does Mr Geurts feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u221	It is presented as if what is now in store has no chance of success at all. Perhaps 20% was just indicated by Mrs Ouwehand. It's all gonna be like that. My experience from the past but also from today is that if you ask multiple experts a question, you will also get several answers back. It's gonna have to turn out. There must be a great deal of commitment from all those involved. We know what depends on it, we know what happens if the derogation doesn't go through. We were able to sketch that together this morning for Radio 1. If the derogation does not go through, you will have a completely different world in the Netherlands. Then we are going to have things that Mr Grashoff does not want. I call on him to use his influence through his channels in Brussels and through the European Parliament to ensure that the derogation for the Netherlands is maintained. I am not allowed to ask a question back, but I hope that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u222	In this case, despite the order, I have been asked a question. I would be very pleased if I could respond briefly to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u223	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u224	I find it special what Mr Geurts is saying here. I have just said in my speech that I would much rather choose the sure way, with regulations in 2017 ensuring that it works. That would also give me much more confidence to say to my colleagues in the European Parliament: boys, support this and make sure that the European Commission is going to allow this. However, I cannot do so much with weak plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u225	There's only one certainty in life, and that's that we're all going to die.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u226	Mr. Chairman. We are at a crossroads of roads. Can we allow dairy farming to develop into an intensive farming operation, in which the cows are kept stable permanently? Or does dairy farming retain its land-based character, with the cow in the pasture? Which way does this cabinet choose, does this Secretary of State choose? When we look at what the Rutte Cabinets have brought to dairy farming, we see that chaos is a trump card. The release of the milk quota led the farmers to produce like madmen, stirred up by the mantra that is more better and more profitable. I still do not understand why the farmers' representatives, such as LTO, have not warned and have not intervened. The farmers have a high level of organisation and LTO could have prevented much. The Dutch dairy farmers Trade Union provided it, but had to sell it, just like the Dutch Dairymen Board. The banks, the Rabobank first, driven by greed, failed. Many farmers were looking forward to the abolition of the milk quota system and the liberalisation of the milk market. Several advisers represented farmers for a long period of favourable milk prices. Let us note that the problems in dairy farming are now not only an unmanageable surplus of manure, but also disastrously low prices for dairy farmers, both due to overproduction. When the milk quota was abolished on 1 April 2015, the trees did not grow to the sky. For example, what the Dutch Dairymen Board had predicted happened. In a short time milk production continued to rise and the milk price collapsed like a plum pudding. This is also due to the disappointing demand from China and Russia's boycott, but it is mainly because there is much more milk produced. It's class one in high school in economics, isn't it? If the supply grows, the price drops. It's been foretold, not just by me. Especially Sieta of Keimpema warned against the abolition of the milk quota, as Cassandra did in ancient times for Troy's horse. Unfortunately, only the LTO-pleitbijders were listened to, who under the motto "bigger is better" helped the milk farmers of the rain in the drip. The cabinet of VVD and PvdA failed. When the decision to release the milk quota finally fell, it was already clear to many that the phosphate ceiling would be broken. The cabinet should have known about this. Now what? Now draconian measures are necessary. Now a large amount of regulation has been issued over dairy farmers in a short period of time. One law bumped over the other. Now there are legislative proposals which actually amount to quoting again, now by reducing the manure surplus. We must intervene, and the question is how. Where do we want to go? The SP wants the final result to be a ground-based livestock farming, with grazing, and to prevent the increase in scale. The family farm must remain the carrier of our dairy farming and must remain the carrier of the countryside. We must have long-term security for the future for our farmers. Another important point for us is that the cost of the solution is borne by the problem-makers; the most intensive dairy farms. Land-based farmers and organic farmers who are not to blame for exceeding the phosphate ceiling should be spared. If we look to the future, we must also send for it. What the cabinet has done so far has only led to economies of scale and less pasture. I may see the Secretary of State frowning, but the number of cows still in the meadow has fallen by 4% in one year. We may then discuss agreements and pastures with the sector, but the road to hell is paved with good intentions and covenants. Land-based farmers and organic farmers have the future. Let us therefore make sure that these farmers are treated in the same way and that the others are adjusted sharply, not the other way round. This legislation threatens to reward the intensive, bold growers and the farmers who do well, the land-based farms, have to pay the price for it. As far as the SP is concerned, there is a simple solution. We must move towards a system of non-negotiable rights, exempting all extensive farmers below 2.5 cows per hectare. Only cows over 2.5 hectares will need phosphate rights. That saves a lot of rules for extensive farmers. We have seen that the European Commission has rejected the plans because of the State aid frameworks. To be honest, I can also imagine. What does the Cabinet do? With the measures it proposes, it gives an estimated value of EUR 7 to 8 billion. It's going into the sector. Those are the rights. So you're making it difficult for newcomers. They'll have to pay later. What is the response of the Secretary of State to the fact that such a sum is donated as a right? If the government ever wants to reduce further in the future or to attach conditions to phosphate rights, for example through emission reduction or grazing, is that possible or should a huge amount of money suddenly be paid to buy back phosphate rights? Can we get a legal basis on that? What barriers does the Secretary of State create for future regulation? We would like to receive a letter on how that is legal before we vote on this law. The problems with the State aid frameworks are very easy to circumvent, namely by not making the rights negotiable. They do not then constitute a value and therefore do not constitute a State aid issue. Why doesn't the Secretary of State want to deal with this? Can the Secretary of State explain why he thinks that the new version of the law is due to the European test? What exactly has changed that it would be acceptable by now? Are the plans before us bringing our vision of the future closer? The law may not even be the most important in this, because the plans for 2017 will determine whether the derogation remains in place. It's very simple. If the 10% stopping farmers in 2017 are mainly land-based farmers or organic farmers, then we get further away from home. If the result is that land-based farmers will have to turn in ten cows in 2017 in order to get them back in 2018, you won't get anything out of it. Why is the plans for 2017 not in any way directed towards the desired future image of land-based and cow-in-the-wei? Is the Secretary of State prepared to realize that this is going to happen? We found that land-based farmers, such as the Network Fundamental, organic farmers and the Dutch Dairymen Board were not allowed to participate. At least I didn't see it. Why not? There is a chamber motion in which the Secretary of State is asked to allow land-based dairy farmers to be adequately represented in the Regiegroep phosphate and dairy farming. Then it's weird that they shouldn't talk prominently about the route for 2017, whereas the most important decisions are made there? How will they be involved in further planning in 2017 to get below the phosphate ceiling? What guarantees do we have that the proposed measures will be effective? The past is not very hopeful, because some of these measures are based on assumptions. This applies, for example, to the transport track, which Frits van der Schans of the research agency CLM said had had no effect in the past. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on that point. What assurance is there that the targets will be met and how will these targets be measured in the interim? How can they be redirected? The present plans of LTO and the Secretary of State are still extremely vague and not worked out. How are we going to work towards a land-based dairy farming in 2017? What's that process gonna look like? How and when will the Chamber be involved? How does the Secretary of State intend to use the universally binding instrument? How does he intend to legitimize that there has not been a discussion with organic farmers about 2017? Not with the Dutch Dairymen Board, not with Network Solid. Does the Secretary of State intend to involve these groups in the preparation of the plans for 2017? There is also an approved chamber motion that the government is asking to allow land-based dairy farmers to be adequately represented in the control group phosphate and dairy farming. There is a nice plan of Network Solid, De Natuurweide, Bionext, Milieudefensie, the Nature and Environmental Federation and a number of dairy organisations as an alternative to the LTO plan. The aim of this plan is to achieve a fully land-based dairy farming within five years. A substantial contraction could also be achieved in 2017. This is very close to the SP proposal on the 2.5 cows per hectare. So we are very sympathetic to that. I would like the Secretary of State to look at these plans with an open mind and to ask whether that is a passable path and a possible alternative to the plans that exist on the part of the LTO. There are also lawyers who doubt whether the plans can be made universally binding for 2017. That clashes with competition rules and could indicate cartels. There are also farmers who say: we are going to challenge this general declaration. How does the Secretary of State see that? Whatever happens, it is extremely important that there should be a general statement. There must be compulsion behind it, otherwise the goals will not be realized. The legislative proposal now before us is not satisfactory, because land-based farmers and organic farmers are not being spared. Despite an adopted SP motion by my colleague, Mr Smaling, in which the Chamber states that land-based farmers must be protected, the proposal before us only partially respects them. This means that we are getting net away from the vision of the future that we are facing. We continue to stray from the path. The brutal intensive companies, which have filled their stables as quickly as possible, are rewarded and the extensive holders have to pay for their growth. Suppose an intensive farm with 150 cows added 100 after the milk quota was abolished. It had 250 on 2 July 2015 and now has to reduce 10%, approximately. Then he still has 225 cows, compared to the 150 he had before. On the other hand, an extensive farmer with 80 cows, who has just enough land to get rid of all his phosphate, is also reduced by 10%, to 72 cows. The growth flukes of the last few years therefore go under the line to favour intensive farmers. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to that thought. In the present legislative proposal, land-based farmers are spared only in so far as they have sufficient latent space. The relief of discount is wrongly made dependent on the amount of latent space. We have tabled an amendment to ensure that land-based farmers are spared if they are cut. Is the Secretary of State prepared to accept that amendment? But the adoption of the amendment on land-based farmers has not solved all the problems. Another problem is that land-based farmers can no longer grow their farms because intensive livestock farming has become more intensive. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP that this is wrong and that this will be seen as unfair among the land-based farmers? According to an estimate by the sector, 6,000 fine organic cows should be killed because of the present bill. Organic farmers must therefore reject some 6,000 cows, while they can dispose of all manure in a nature-friendly and responsible way. They shall not make use of the derogation. However, they are limited in their growth space and even have to shrink their businesses. "I have to bring cows to slaughter to make intensive livestock farming intensive." That tweeted an angry organic farmer. "You have to get on the phone because your neighbor's too fat" tweeted another. That discontent led to a signature action called "Save the Biocow." In a short time, 14,000 signatures have been collected. Even if the amendment is adopted in order to avoid land-based farmers, biofarmers will still be in trouble. These are the following groups. Roughly 10% were in the transition situation from regular to organic, i.e. from one type of farming to another, or to a better stable system. As a result, these farmers had a much lower number of cows at the reference date. 10% of organic farmers are non-ground-bound according to the phosphate definition, but according to the biodefinition. These farmers then have feed-fertilizer contracts with farmers nearby. A large part of it was working on expansion plans because the demand for organic dairy is growing. I have only talked about the farmers who are farmers at the moment. Future biofarmers will also run into barriers. Dairy farmers who want to switch to organic farming in the future will be in trouble. This does not apply to regular dairy farmers who want to switch, but to a pig farmer, for example, or to someone with a mixed farm who wants to switch. Current biofarmers who want to expand in the future have to buy phosphate rights, even if they have latent space. Let me remind you that the biological sector does not make use of the derogation and uses only 40% of the phosphate space they have based on their country. I would like to mention a number of examples of biofarmers who have been affected. For biofarmer Arjen Kool, 30 years old, this has great consequences. In Hei- en Boeicop, on the border of Zuid-Holland and Utrecht, he runs a organic dairy farm together with his parents and his uncle. Last year they built a new, larger stable that offers the animals more comfort. In the meantime, 95 dairy cows are on the wood shavings in the new clearing. The measures for Kool probably mean having 16 cows slaughtered, the number that has been added since last summer. That saves him €56,000 milk revenues per year. Or he has to pay 16 times €5,000, so €80,000 for new phosphate rights. But there are no phosphate rights for sale for the time being. It's also a question of whether he's getting that money together. Let me give you a second example. Max van Tilburg, a junior from Breukelen, is a young, starting bioboer. With his company he manages a cultural historical park landscape that was built in the seventeenth century. He gradually builds up his own livestock. He had no animals on 2 July 2015. He started on 14 July 2015 with 26 cows. He has 65 now and wants to go to 80 animals with young cattle. He has 61 hectares of land at his disposal. So he's got less than 1.7 cows per hectare. If there is no regulation for start-ups, he must have his 65 cows all slaughtered. And if there were phosphate rights for sale, he would have to buy rights for 80 cows. That would cost him 80 times €5,000 is €400,000. If he could borrow this huge amount, the corresponding interest rate will give an income reduction of almost €20,000 per year. Just a reminder: the average income of a dairy farmer is about €25,000 per year. Example three. Jan-Rein de Jong from Rotstergaast is a young bioboer. He is enthusiastic about nature management, where butterflies get his special attention. He has 100 hectares of land and was working to gradually grow his livestock from young cattle. Target was 100 cows on 100 hectares. On the date of 2 July 2015, 60 dairy cows had grown up. Jan-Rein must therefore miss 40 dairy cows. He'd already made a very big investment in land. The bank has now announced him to stand guard and wants to finance any additional phosphate rights, 40 times €5,000 is €200,000. If nothing happens, it means the end of his business. Example four. Beerd Flier from Oldebroek has a very good feed-fertilizer relationship with a farmer in the neighboring polder. At his company the first KoeLand-demostal was realized. In 2012 the company won a prize together with partners for this design, which was awarded by, yes, then Minister Gerda Verburg. The aim of KoeLand is a new type of livestock farming: low emissions, high animal welfare, low antibiotic use, energy neutral and fit into the landscape. Further development, development and final licensing and financing took more time than hoped. Eventually, the first cows could enter the new stable at the end of June 2015. The new stable was calculated at 114 cows. Due to lack of space during construction, the number of cows in the old stable was temporarily reduced by 13. That's why there were only 66. He's keeping at least 79 now, so we need to get 13 to the slaughter. An additional complication now appears to be his cooperation relationship with the organic farmer. In 2015 he was not ground-bound according to the phosphate definition, but according to biological legislation, in which a written cooperation with another biocompany is recognised as ground-bound. Think of it as a mixed business. If this cooperation does not count for his phosphate rights, he must slaughter another 10 cows. He can still rent the land of the farmer so that it comes into his name, but that doesn't help him because 2015 is the reference year. So at least 23 cows have to go to slaughter. That award-winning innovative stable will be half empty. If there are phosphate rights to buy, this costs 23 cows €115.000. If he wants to use the innovative stable normally, he has to buy a further 35 cows' fees for €175.000. Total cost: €290,000. Is that even possible at all? The four examples lead me to this question to the Secretary of State: what can he do for these people? Will the Secretary of State help these biofarmers? The intensification of dairy farming is also detrimental to pig farming, a sector which is already suffering for a long time from a lack of profitability. Farmers pay to be allowed to plant their manure on land. Now that the market is flooded by cow manure, pig farmers have to pay more to be allowed to sell manure. These are thousands and often tens of thousands of euros per company. The pig farmers already owe EUR 2.4 billion to Rabobank together. Can the Secretary of State quantify more precisely how much more the pig farmers are going to pay for the manure disposal through this fiasco? Does the Secretary of State agree that a possible conversion of pig rights to phosphate rights should not lead to higher greenhouse gas emissions? We have tabled an amendment to add greenhouse gases to the conditions for converting pig rights into phosphate rights and to add a veil to that. I would like to ask for the support of the Secretary of State for this amendment. I assume that it is not his intention that the conversion of pig rights to phosphate rights should lead to more greenhouse gas emissions. I would like to hear a commitment on this point. I'm coming to a conclusion. The CDA has submitted a proposal on the problem regime. We support that. I have outlined a number of problems, particularly in the bio-sector. There's been a lot of trouble and that's rubbing in one way or another. Apart from what you find, in individual companies a lot of things happen that you say: actually that's not good, actually it can't. The Secretary of State says: I have made a problem regulation that is too limited; I have to apply it because otherwise the system will fail. But it feels unfair. I therefore hope that we will find ways in which we can do something in a number of cases. I also hope that the committee of wise men will do so. We need to move towards a consistent policy. That is necessary. Not the delusion of the day should rule, but certainty for the long term. That's what farmers need. They need certainty, a long-term vision they can rely on. Security creates peace and perspective for businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u227	I think that Mr Van Gerven and I agree on this point from the front to the back. In my view, he finds, together with me, much better non-marketable rights than marketable ones. Does Mr Van Gerven agree with me that we should take it forward in 2017, so that we can save a lot of those nasty cases that Mr Van Gerven mentioned with legislation in 2017 and are not dependent on a sectoral agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u228	We need to get rid of these negotiable rights. I appeal once again to the Secretary of State and to others too: step away from that hopeless path. Instead of promoting trade, it slows people down to develop. Who's got so much money on the shelf? I have already outlined what it means for companies that want to develop. So let's not do that. If we can achieve this by 2017, it can indeed be a useful and effective tool to regulate things well on the one hand and on the other hand offer a perspective towards the development of a dairy farming that is both ground-bound and realizes grazing, but also provides the farmers with certainty and a decent sandwich.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u229	Thank you for this excellent answer; taken from the heart. In the meantime, we are with the amendment to item No. 67. An amendment is being replaced here and there, but it is becoming an inconceivable pile. I am sure that I myself have tabled an amendment that regulates the introduction of non-marketable duties by 2017. I do not think I saw that date in the SP amendment, but perhaps we can make a sensible move together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u230	I'd be fine with that. Indeed, the flow of amendments is immense. We need to see if we can find each other in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u231	Mr. Chairman. Following the abolition of the milk quota in 2015, dairy farming has grown in size. A property belonging to individual entrepreneurs. Growth is such that the associated phosphate production exceeds the rules that Brussels allows. Farmers are very concerned about the future of their business. I understand these concerns. I understand that people are awake from the question of whether they still have a viable business and whether they can still transfer their business to their son or daughter in the future; that is fierce. The Netherlands should not produce more than 172.9 million kilograms of phosphate from Brussels under the Nitrate Directive. This phosphate production ceiling was agreed more than ten years ago to reduce the environmental burden. At the time of the milk quota this was generally not a problem, but after its abolition the sector has grown in size and thus phosphate production. The phosphate production ceiling does not take into account significant developments in the sector. For example, most of the poultry manure is burned so that the manure does not enter the environment. Part of manure is exported in the form of grains of manure. Since 2012, the manure processing obligation has been in force and farmers have an obligation to process a significant part of the manure. In addition, there are many innovative developments. For example, the sector is able to turn manure into green fertilizer, which can reduce the use of chemical fertilizers. It's better for the environment. We are also able to extract phosphate from manure. Phosphate is an important raw material, for which the Netherlands is now dependent on imports from countries such as Morocco or Syria. These developments illustrate that the Netherlands does not have a manure problem, but a solution to challenges facing the sector. The fact that the Netherlands does not have a manure problem is also confirmed by the levels of nitrate in groundwater. Measurements by the derogation companies show that a large part of the water quality is in order. Green fertilizer and the removal of phosphates from residual products are important steps towards our environmental objectives and the circular economy. The Nitrates Directive also determines the amount of animal manure that farmers are allowed to drive on the arable land. The Netherlands has an exemption from this rule and is allowed to apply more manure; that is the so-called derogation. A condition for derogation is that the Netherlands produces within the phosphate production ceiling. This is where the shoe wrings. With Dutch dairy farming producing more phosphate than Brussels allows, the Netherlands runs the risk that the derogation will be withdrawn and, worse still, that a new derogation will not be negotiated, which should enter into force from 1 January 2018. Brussels is sticking to the agreements that were made a long time ago. These agreements are rigid and do not allow for innovation and for the Dutch solutions that have just been mentioned. We are facing a difficult task. We want to offer entrepreneurs perspective and space for business development and encourage farmers to start working on innovations. However, we are not given this space, because if dairy farming does not produce below the phosphate ceiling in 2017, there is a good chance that the current derogation will be withdrawn or, worse still, that negotiations on a new derogation will not be started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u232	Does Mrs Lodders, if she looks back now, regret that after the release of milk quotas, she did not support the proposal of a part of the Chamber to allow only ground-based growth and therefore to make land-basedness a condition?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u233	No, I do regret that we did not start to question the phosphate production ceiling earlier. This production ceiling is not in line with the innovative developments currently taking place in the sector. I am thinking in particular of a number of developments where manure does not disappear into the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u234	Mrs Lodders made it quite clear at the beginning of her story that this has to do with the release of milk quotas. Once again, D66 has never seen the release of milk quotas as a problem, as is also the case with the VVD, but it has always said that growth must be ground-bound. Mrs Lodders just indicated that we are in this situation because of the fact that, after the release of milk quotas, there has been great growth, but here she says that she does not regret that she has not linked it to soil.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u235	In my opinion, I have indicated that sufficiently. These agreements on the phosphate production ceiling were made in Brussels in 2002. It's a rigid rule. This evening, a number of times have been pointed out that manure produced in the Netherlands which does not disappear into the environment needs to be eliminated. However, the VVD prefers to see the phosphate production ceiling disappear, because this would promote innovation. Then Mrs Koşer Kaya can come up with all kinds of other developments, but we have supported the Law on land-based growth of dairy farming. So we are going to a more land-based dairy farming, but the VVD is not in favour of regulating it completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u236	I wonder where the VVD will take responsibility, because it is stupid for Brussels to set a phosphate production ceiling and that it should be otherwise, the derogation does not yet guarantee. It sounds a bit like the straw of the CDA Minister Gerda Verburg, who said in 2009 that manure was the new brown gold and that at the end of that cabinet period that headache file would be solved. Manure processing and techniques have not yet proven themselves. What does the VVD offer the farmers? That derogation is at stake and the plans put forward by the VVD here are only that perhaps the production ceiling can be abolished once. That's not gonna happen at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u237	I am not yet ready to say that I am merely presenting these plans. On the contrary. We are facing a very difficult choice today. All these people sitting here and all those farmers who are at home right now are very concerned about the development and perspective of their business. We must make a very difficult choice. What makes me sad is that we have not questioned the phosphate production ceiling before. I am very pleased that we are now giving it to this Secretary of State in the negotiations. That was not possible in the earlier period. We're gonna have to fight hard for that. If you take almost 100% of the poultry manure from the Dutch manure market, it is not fair to include it in these agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u238	The fact that the manure is removed from the market is therefore not true. Manure processing and manure fermentation do not eliminate the amount of manure. I'm really wondering two things. If we were to drive out the manure production at the start of this cabinet over The Hague, the manure would come to our aid. How far does the VVD want it to grow and is this aligned with coalition partner PvdA? Is it really a coalition question to say that the limit on manure production in the Netherlands can be removed? It doesn't matter if we're in the manure all over the country. Is that what the VVD with the support of the PvdA is asking here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u239	I'm not asking the Secretary of State. It is one of the letters that has also been sent to Mrs Ouwehand, in which this is taken to Brussels. It is about the removal of the phosphate ceiling and second best about the sealing of that manure that does not disappear into the Dutch environment. There is also a lot of manure going abroad in the form of manure grains. We're able to make green fertilizer. In my view, this is much better than the chemical fertilizer that is currently being produced, with all its environmental consequences. That should also support Mrs Ouwehand, but I will come back to that. I can give you some examples. Mrs Ouwehand spoke about Brussels drawing up the rules. We have made them in consultation, so we have to look at ourselves in particular. So do we.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u240	Finally, Mrs Lodders said...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u241	No, no, Mrs Ouwehand, we agreed to do interruptions in two. If I allow you to ask a third supplementary question, I have to let everyone do it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u242	Didn't we do that tonight in threes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u243	No, in twos. All of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u244	Mrs Lodders will get away with that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u245	You also have a second term. Mr Grashoff, this is your eighth interruption!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u246	Yeah, I keep trying to keep them short. Maybe you'll notice. I know the VVD as one of the main advocates of abolishing the milk quota. GroenLinks and the VVD think completely differently about the question where you want to go with agriculture. Apart from that, does Mrs Lodder agree with me that the commitment should have been to settle a number of issues before the milk quota was released, not to put all these people in trouble? Hasn't it just been a flat lobby of the VVD, without all those conditions, causing this misery to a large extent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u247	No, we advocated the abolition of the milk quota at the time, but we were not the only party to it. It is very nice that the VVD will be awarded a lot tonight, but I am still in favour of it. Production restrictions such as the milk quota do not fit in with the development we want to see. There are other examples than those I have already mentioned. For example, we have a manure law in this country, which will allow us to achieve a balance on the manure market in 2017. We are able to shape all kinds of innovative developments. Let's encourage that. This is better for the environment and for the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u248	It is clear that it was not only the VVD, because it did not have a majority, but let's face it: the VVD has been the main advocate for abolishing the milk quota, regardless of the problem. Together with the CDA and the Labour Party, it has managed to do it and is to a large extent responsible for the misery we have caused over the agricultural sector. There shouldn't be a farmer voting for the VVD anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u249	That was a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u250	At the moment when a farmer would vote for GroenLinks, he certainly knows where agriculture is going and then it is even worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u251	A fine text by Mrs Lodders on the netting of exports of phosphate grains to low-phosphate countries. There is also an amendment from my hand. Will Mrs Lodders support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u252	Frankly, I have not yet seen all the amendments, even though they have been there for a while, as Mr Dijkgraaf would say, but there are so many now that I would like to hear the State Secretary's opinion on them first. I am certainly going to look at Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment, but the most important thing is that we take that message with us to Brussels. The Secretary of State has written a letter on behalf of the cabinet that he will argue in Brussels for the removal of the phosphate ceiling and, as a second best, for the netting of phosphate production outside the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u253	It is important, however, how important Mrs Lodder herself thinks this is. I can predict the Secretary of State's advice; that is not recommended. He will do that with all my amendments. It is especially the VVD group that has to decide what it does. It is a very simple text, namely not to include at least five million kilograms of phosphate for the phosphate ceiling. We can just decide for ourselves. Mrs Lodders has tabled a clear amendment: no derogation, no law. The Commission considers this amendment to be important. 57 important enough, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u254	It is good that Mr Dijkgraaf reads the text. For the second term, I'll read it right. Then perhaps we can have an interrupting debate on it. It may be that we do not count the five million kilograms and therefore have problems in Brussels. Even if we can do so ourselves, we will have a much bigger problem if we do not retain the derogation. That is a very important condition for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u255	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u256	Mr. Chairman. For the VVD, it is not an option to risk the derogation, because its consequences would be disastrous for dairy farming, but also for the other sectors. Everything must therefore be aimed at maintaining the derogation for our Dutch farmers. Part of this is this law, whereby we are going to introduce the system of phosphate rights. The Secretary of State had to amend the original law to an important part, as it would not fit into the European State aid rules. The law will now enter into force not on the intended date of 1 January 2017, but on 1 January 2018. This means that the present law has no effect on 2017. The industry itself is now in a position to come up with measures to continue to produce below that phosphate ceiling in 2017. The VVD considers it commendable that the sector has come up with a package of measures, including a broad commitment. It is not easy to submit these measures to the members or to the producers of the companies that came with them. It will not lead to cheers, but it is an important part of securing the derogation. What does the Secretary of State expect of the package of measures? Is that enough for Brussels to start the talks? Can the Secretary of State say anything about the trial? How do we know what progress will be in the coming period? When will the exact package become clear and when can the different measures come into force? I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to monitor progress. Is he willing to inform the Chamber about that once a quarter? Now that the law comes into force a year later, we have a better idea of the outcome of the negotiations on the derogation. Perhaps that is a small advantage, if we may speak of it by this law. For the VVD Group, however, it is not acceptable for the Phosphate Act to come into force if the derogation is to expire. I have therefore tabled an amendment to ensure that this law does not enter into force if there is no vision of the derogation. My group strongly calls on this Secretary of State to move forward with the negotiations on the derogation. That will require persuasiveness. How will the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of progress in this matter and how will he involve the Chamber in the deployment and process? I said earlier that the removal of the phosphate ceiling or the possibility of balancing phosphate production outside the Dutch environment is an important part of the commitment to the new derogation. I would like to hear confirmation from the Secretary of State that he will make a full commitment to this. Earlier, I expressed my concerns about the troubles. I hope that a number of farmers will be more clear after this legal process, but there will also be farmers who do not know where they stand because their business situation at the time of the phosphate reference date was different from the current one. On 2 July 2015, for example, they were building a stable, while the number of animals was not yet up to date. I am also thinking of the farmers who, in the summer, gave their animals to nature reserves or other areas and at the time of survey, had fewer livestock. The problem regulation has been kept small. I understand that, but at the same time I do get abdominal pain from those examples. Can the Secretary of State tell us how these people can be made clear as soon as possible whether they are eligible for a problem settlement and what route they should take? On the initiative of the VVD, an additional legal test of the problem regulation took place. Does the Secretary of State consider that the legal guarantee is sufficient in view of the results of this test? I have tabled an amendment myself, but my colleagues have also made a number of proposals. I will not go through all the amendments, because there are a lot of them. I'd like to dwell on a few of them. My group will support the amendment tabled by the Christian Union and D66 in order to avoid the generic reduction of land-based companies in line with the definition of the AMvB land-based growth. The proposal on feed-fertiliser contracts and the sustainable relationship between dairy farmer and farmer is important for the sector and stimulates the regional cycle. My group also believes that this is very important. We shall therefore support the amendment tabled by Mr Geurts and Mrs Dik-Faber. The same applies to the amendment to shape the circular. The circular hand is a good tool. My group will support this amendment wholeheartedly, but that is not really enough. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what the timetable is for him to develop, together with the sector, a supported instrument that meets the requirements. I understand that this is largely the responsibility of the sector. I agree, but I do think that the Secretary of State should put the parties together and ensure a working system. Sector representatives are also following this debate. I also strongly appeal to them. Surprised was my group about the hook in the law to cream phosphate in poultry and pig farming. I made a point of this during the written round. We are constantly talking about the dairy sector in the preparation of this law. The pig and poultry sectors are not involved. It is therefore not fair to create this hook now. The VVD supports Mr Geurts' amendment, as well as the amendment on the tax write-off of rights. On this point, my group would like to endorse the possibility of these rights. We must take a difficult, but also important step today, because if we do nothing, there is a high risk of a loss of derogation. The exemption for the application of more animal manure has major consequences. Not only will the dairy farming sector have to be further reduced, but this will also have an impact on the other animal sectors and on agriculture. Soil fertility is already under pressure. A further decline is not without consequences. The VVD won't take care of that. However, the above does not mean that we are finished after today. On the contrary. There are a number of important issues that we need to deal with, because the current regulation is blocking innovation. That's undesirable. Last week there was an extensive article in Farmhouse about the phosphate industry. Phosphate is an important raw material, but decreasing phosphate stocks have encouraged mining companies to look for new sites. There is currently a strong discussion in some countries in southern Africa about whether or not to allow phosphate extraction. The World Wildlife Fund in South Africa calls for more research into technology for the recovery of phosphate. I very much agree with that. We are able to regain phosphate from manure. The VVD believes that the Netherlands should make full use of this. This is good for the environment and for the circular economy, and it is the way to restore the future for farmers. In the budget of his department, the Secretary of State has set aside money for innovation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to use some of these resources for further research and development of phosphate recovery? My group would welcome it if the recovery of phosphate could take place on a larger scale in the future. This will make the Netherlands less dependent on countries which currently have a phosphate stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u257	There are gradually a few cracks in my boot and there is mud in it. Mrs Lodders said that she would like to be clear about the problem regulation, and she would like to hear where people can go. In my speech, I said that, if you take a number of measures, you can create additional space to deal with these problems. Why don't I hear those kind of lyrics from Mrs. Lodders? We support the amendment on land-based growth. We support the idea, but shouldn't Mrs Lodders arrange that this is not at the expense of companies that have done what could be expected of them until 2 July 2015 and that are legally engaged? For them, the discount goes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u258	I expected this question from Mr Dijkgraaf. He has made some proposals that sound wonderful and which may offer people hope and perspective, but if we create extra space that is not there to risk the derogation, we are back to square one. That is the big problem I have with Mr Dijkgraaf's speech and the questions he is asking. If it was a race that was running that would offer this perspective, I would give it a lot of thought. However, I am not only getting signals from the Secretary of State; I myself have been investigating and talking to a lot of people in Brussels, that we are not getting away with it in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u259	That really is a choice of the VVD Group. I told you you could just get three million kilos. The Secretary of State is only looking at the dairy phosphate ceiling and not wider, while the 3 million kilos are simply present. You can fetch 2 million kilos if you're willing to pay out money, apparently the VVD is not prepared to buy pig rights. That's 5 million kilos. So that space is there. It is not a question of unwillingness or of risking the derogation, because Brussels is fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u260	If Brussels is okay with that, I would like that to be done in black and white by Mr Dijkgraaf. This is not confirmed in the contacts I have had; on the contrary. So that's not true. Let's ask the Secretary of State to respond to this. On Mr Dijkgraaf's second proposal to remove phosphate from pig farming, I am fundamentally opposed. I don't think that's fair. We're talking about dairy farming today. If dairy farming and pig farming agree to exchange a number of rights, we can discuss this, but we should not unilaterally choose the way in which pig farming takes advantage of it. That is very unwise and very undesirable. I do not think that we are doing enough for pig farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u261	I see the farmers are leaving the public gallery. Do the cows have to be milked early? Oh, you have to catch the bus. Have a nice trip back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u262	Well, at home and thank you for your interest. In recent years, there has been a lot of legislation on the production, use and processing of manure. As a result, a lot of rules run by and through each other. Just take out the manure, underground or above ground. That is why there is an uneven playing field in Europe. In addition, the rules do not provide sufficient scope for innovation. These laws and regulations need to be thoroughly changed. However, as long as the derogation is not settled, there is little chance of getting to work on it. In fact, if we take the plans now to Brussels, the chances of success will be very small. I am not making any specific proposals at the moment, however much I would like to do so. As soon as the derogation is secured, we will certainly be talking about this. Many of the ideas I have heard in recent weeks, such as a company-specific derogation, are very interesting to work out. I'm sure I'd like to take it with me. In addition to phosphate rights, we also deal with the law for responsible growth of dairy farming. The AMvB has been incorporated into the law and can count on the support of the VVD. I'm gonna finish up. Farmers are very concerned about the future of their business. I hope that today's debate will provide a little more clarity for these entrepreneurs, even though it does not remove the uncertainty in which they are living, nor can we remove them. The next few months will be crucial for the dairy sector. The Secretary of State is faced with an extremely important task: bring the package of measures of the sector and this law to Brussels; defend them with a warm heart for the sector and do so not for us, the MPs in this Chamber, but for all those farmers who are in uncertainty; do so in the interests of dairy farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u263	A number of years ago, I asked Mrs Lodders in a budget debate whether it was time to apologize to the farmers. I'll repeat that question tonight. For four years this cabinet of VVD and PvdA has been working together and the derogation is at stake. Is it not time that Mrs Lodder's VVD apologized to the farmers for all the empty promises made in the election time around 2012?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u264	I think Mr Geurts is putting on quite a large pair of pants here again. It is always the same: pessimistic, without perspective for the people and without plans showing where the CDA itself wants to go. Let us make sure that we can take the step towards maintaining the derogation. I would draw Mr Geurts' attention to the fact that for the first time in a long time, the CDA's executives too have not done so, has been included in a letter saying that we are going to Brussels to remove the phosphate ceiling and to strike the phosphate that is outside the Dutch environment. At least that's the point. That's not how far the CDA executives got.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u265	I think this is a very easy answer. There was no need or need at the time, but that aside. Mrs Lodders said in the election campaign that pig and poultry rights are going down. Mrs Lodders said last August that Secretary of State Dijksma was wasting her time with phosphate rights. The VVD said in August 2015 in the NOS report that the VVD wants to keep room for the growth of dairy farming. What's left of all these claims? Nothing at all! Isn't it time to apologize to the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u266	Mr Geurts is going into repetitions. If we do not talk about necessity, Mrs Verburg's time as Minister of Agriculture, for example, was there. Of course, we should have settled this long and wide before we hit above the ceiling. We didn't do that to each other. I look to that myself and my own group. We should have picked that up sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u267	The VVD stopped for months that this plan came to the Chamber on time. Following the release of milk quotas, the VVD has made it impossible to link growth to land-basedness. The VVD has always had this Secretary of State of the PvdA House and the PvdA in the throes of putting a foot in this file, with all the consequences for the farmers. I find it rather simple to stand here and wish the farmers a great deal of strength. I would like Mrs Lodders here today to express regret at the fact that she has made a serious mistake there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u268	I don't know. When I look at the treatment of this law introducing the phosphate rights system, we have had some very spicy discussions. We have had a debate and several written rounds. I'd almost say that wasn't for nothing. The fact that the Secretary of State had to change the law on a fundamental part was ultimately the result of all these critical questions and contacts in Brussels. I wouldn't know what to do when we passed a half-baked law three, four months ago, so before this point became clear. I'd be ashamed of myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u269	We will be discussing the management qualities of the Secretary of State when he responds. However, this is a derogation that could involve a billion dollars if we lose it. I don't want to, and you don't want to. It's five to twelve. We could have held this debate months ago. The VVD Group should have said here that her attitude was completely out of place and that she really should have taken steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u270	I'll fight that. If we had passed this law five months ago, we would have adopted it by 1 January 2017. Then the debate on state aid would not have been settled and we would have had a half-baked law. We'd have been a lot further away from home. So I am very happy that I have had a critical attitude, however annoying. I believe that the package as we are discussing it tonight has added value: the responsibility that the sector has taken to come up with a package of measures in 2017 and the law. Let us now ensure that the law and the package are implemented as quickly as possible. The Secretary of State is looking at me a little anxious, but I would almost say: a one-way Brussels and go and argue it there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u271	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u272	No, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u273	I have not heard Mrs Lodders talk about trading phosphate rights. In fact, I find that strange from a party that is very focused on trade and the market. Isn't it true that if those phosphate rights become negotiable I have outlined the advantages of this for many farmers, which means that the tent simply closes? After all, they are not able to cough up the €5,000 per cow. Shouldn't the answer be, also from the VVD, in the interests of farmers and in order to prevent wind trading, that we do not make these rights negotiable, because this is one of the major causes of problems now and in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u274	The VVD and the SP are not in line in that regard. If we do not make phosphate rights negotiable, entrepreneurs will become dependent on the government. That is the last thing I would like to do on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u275	We have to note that they are now dependent on the bank, on the greed of the banks, and I know what it is. I have outlined the examples. Let me ask you one more specific question. We start from a land-based farmer, a biofarmer who has room to house, milk, take care of the manure properly. He's gonna have to cough up 2.5 tons later. If we deal with this via the government, through a public phosphate bank, and look closely at the conditions under which that happens, then that 2.5 tonnes should not have to be coughed up. Where's that money going now? What's in it for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u276	I think Mr Van Gerven gives a rather simplistic picture. He pretends that making the phosphate rights non-negotiable will all become cake and egg. On the contrary. An entrepreneur becomes dependent on the government. That's the last thing I want. The government will then send who does and who doesn't. A company that doesn't have phosphate rights isn't worth anything anymore. So there goes the retirement provision for an entrepreneur who wants to quit. I think that is extremely unwise. That's the difference between the SP and the VVD. That's not where we're gonna get along. When we talk about this law today, when we vote next week and there will be clarity for the sector, I hope that the banks too will assume their responsibilities and give more scope to entrepreneurs. Then they will know where they stand and there will also be a perspective for the entrepreneurs. I find the current situation worrying. But I also understand: if there is no clarity as to where it is going, you must be reluctant to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u277	Mr. Chairman. I was just a little shocked by a statement by my colleague Lodders. She said the Secretary of State had to take a one-way trip to Brussels. As far as I am concerned, he can often go to Brussels, but with a number of returns because we still need him very much here. I see to Mrs Lodder that she did not mean to. Okay. The overrun of the phosphate ceiling is due to the way in which agriculture develops in the Netherlands. This development is aimed at maximizing production that is unsustainable in a small and densely populated country like the Netherlands. This threatens nature, the environment and species wealth, but also the existence of farmers in the Netherlands and the economic position of agriculture. Growing, growing and growing again seems the norm. The dairy farming we are talking about tonight grew substantially after the milk quota ceased to exist. The sector forgot there was also a manure ceiling. When I talk about the sector, I am not talking about individual farmers, but above all about farmers' organisations, such as LTO, and the Rabobank who could have warned about the manure ceiling. The dairy farming and many of these farmers are now facing a very serious problem. An increasing number of them like to switch to a form of agriculture that goes hand in hand with nature and the environment, but they are hampered by an agricultural system that aims to increase production and scale. The agricultural sector is very important to our country. Farmers need to get perspective again. No more emphasis only on scaling or bulk production. It has to be different, find many now, and a lot of farmers first. That it can be done differently proves day in and day out of farmers who do it differently. I call the meadow-bird farmers, the nature farmers and the organic farmers already very much called "the organic farmers' today. But I also mention farmers who have enough land under their farms to get rid of manure, farmers who have not contributed to exceeding the national phosphate ceiling. The land-based farmers; they have been regularly reviewed this evening. Those farmers are important to the Labour Party. Those who have not contributed to exceeding the national phosphate ceiling should not pay the price for exceeding it. The polluter pays. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the land-based farmers are not participating in the generic skimming of phosphate rights next year. That is why we will wholeheartedly support the amendments tabled by Mr Koşer Kaya and Mr Dik-Faber to regulate this. It is also important for us to use the Phosphate Bank to guide the desired development in dairy farming. It must be ground bound and the cows must go into the pasture. The European Commission expects us to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u278	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u279	Finish your sentence first, Mr Leenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u280	As far as we are concerned, dairy farming must continue to develop sustainably towards a nature-inclusive enterprise, with support in society and with the opportunity for the farmer to earn a decent income. But we don't settle that with this law. Clearly, as far as the Labour Party is concerned, this law is certainly not the end of sustainable development. Last week, when we discussed the budget for Agriculture and Nature, we asked for a detailed plan to use the transition from common to nature-based. Then I come to the phosphate reduction package. Maybe that's a natural moment for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u281	The Labour Party has just said that those who did not participate in the excess of the phosphate ceiling should not pay for that either. The amendment tabled by D66 and the Christian Union is a small repair of that great miscarriage that is indeed in the law and the plan, but it does not solve the problem for organic farmers. If the Labour Party thinks and I very much hope that those who have not caused the problems will not have to pay for it and that the direction towards more animal-friendly and sustainable is important, will the Labour Party support the alternative plan that organic farmers, together with animal welfare organisations, environmental organisations and Network have submitted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u282	Two answers. Organic farmers will be spared 100% in the skimming of phosphate rights. If the rights are distributed, organic farmers will be at the forefront of the Phosphate Bank, because they will meet the requirements that we are going to set in the future. I am going to say something in my speech about the plan you mentioned, which was submitted by the land-based organic farmers this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u283	So that's what you're going to come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u284	Then I'll ask my follow-up question when that story's over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u285	I come to the phosphate reduction package. This should ensure that we are below the national phosphate ceiling in 2017; the condition for the entry into force of this law. We still have a few questions about this. The sector and the chain parties are at the forefront of the measures. Does that mean, I ask the Secretary of State, that there is full responsibility there too? Is it clear who can be called upon to do so and when? How hard is this package? How is it achieved that all the dairy farmers involved are involved? Are companies which have neither part of the problem nor part of the problem, the land-based farmers we have just talked about, going along with them to carry it out? The signals do not indicate that at this stage. How much certainty is there that the reduction of kilos of phosphate will actually be realized? The package has been drawn up to ensure that dairy farmers who have not grown after 2 July 2015 are spared as much as possible. That's what the letter says. What's "as much as possible"? Has it been agreed that land-based farms, which did not contribute to the exceeding of the phosphate ceiling, will be spared in this package too? That is what the Labour Party wants in the law and therefore in the package of measures, but we are not talking about that package of measures. Some parts of the package are subject to the competition rules. It is not clear whether the measures fall within these rules. What if it turns out they don't fit in? Does that mean the whole plan's gonna go down? Isn't that a very big risk? In order to reach the phosphate ceiling in 2017, strict assurance in terms of progress and implementation of the measures is needed. Who's gonna do this? How is that linked back? In any case, we see this law as a step towards sustainable agriculture. Land-based farmers are 100% free of charge. This is how we reward farmers who already produce sustainably. Now move on to more nature-inclusive agriculture. I shall return to Mrs Ouwehand's question. The birders' plan, as I believe it is called, of the Network Fundamental and the organic farmers came in this week. That could be a contribution. I just had a conversation with a number of young and enthusiastic, but also very concerned farmers. They asked me what it would mean if this plan were presented to and considered seriously by the incumbents who made the alternative or the original plan. Wouldn't it be nice if the good elements of both plans could be combined? It's just not up to us. Can I ask the Secretary of State to seriously consider whether those parties, those two groups that have not joined the original plan, can still come together to see if they can make an even better plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u286	That was the point Mrs Ouwehand asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u287	I'm almost speechless. What an incredible bullshit! We are now deciding on the future of dairy farming, where organic farmers are going to die. The Labour Party has always had nice words, even just now! Those who have not contributed to these problems shall not do so to organic farmers; they shall not make use of the derogation.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If we agree to this law and this plan underneath and we ask the Secretary of State to see if there are any more conversations possible, we'll just drop the organic farmers hard. Is the Labour Party really prepared to do so, or is it prepared to go back on its feet? Who's more important, the organic farmer or the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u288	I think I heard Mrs. Old Hand mention my story bullshit. Well, I'd like to give that back now, because I think her story is bullshit. I have made it very clear that organic farmers are protected under the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u289	I would just like to point out, without taking up all kinds of qualifications directly, that the legislative proposal as it stands today does not regulate the care of organic farmers and land-based farmers. Mr Leenders will agree with that. Perhaps he is referring to some of the amendments that have been tabled. Will the PvdA support these amendments? I haven't heard anything about that, but I find that interesting. I find it pleasurable to have clarity about that. I believe there is a choice of six variants, but in the same direction. Perhaps Mr Leenders would like to give a clear answer. I am also very surprised that Mr Leenders says about the agreement: we are not about that. He said that twice. He can't be serious, can he? This is an agreement in which the Secretary of State and his officials and the sector are about to come to an agreement. You're party! And we're here to check on the Secretary of State. If we give this Secretary of State a clear mandate, isn't that what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u290	On the first question, I think I have been clear. We want to spare farmers who have not contributed to the problem. That is why we are going along with Mr Koşer Kaya's and Mr Dik-Faber's amendments. And there are more amendments. We're gonna see if they can complement that. So I'm going to look at them seriously, but I'd also like to wait for the Secretary of State's advice. I would also like to say for a third time that I do not think that we are dealing with the package of measures and that I do not want us to go over it if we do not have legal means of power. What we can do is ask the Secretary of State to make every effort to get the sector to come up with a good plan in a joint consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u291	To get it right: the motion that I have not yet tabled asks precisely for it. Will that be supported by Mr Leenders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u292	What kind of motion is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u293	No motion has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u294	There's no motion yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u295	No, but I said exactly what was in that motion in my speech. Mr Leenders knows exactly what I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u296	In the second term, I will listen carefully to what you mean by that. Then I'll answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u297	Through you, I say to Mr Leenders and to my fellow Members: let us stop turning farmers against each other. My real question is this. I just heard Mr Leenders say that the package is not the responsibility of the Secretary of State. Is he really saying that the package that comes from business is really only business and business, and that the Secretary of State has nothing else to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u298	No, I'm not saying that. I am simply saying that the Secretary of State is not responsible for this and that we cannot therefore be held responsible for it either. I also put a question to the Secretary of State because I wanted to confirm that for a moment. Here's what I think it is: if you're not responsible, you can't be held responsible. Is that an answer to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u299	Well, at least it's an answer to a question, but my clog will break. Really. Really. You say that it is a business package, that politics is not responsible for it. Maybe there is still a general statement to be made, but again, politics, in this case the Secretary of State, is apparently not responsible. If you are not responsible, how can you defend this whole thing in Brussels? You really put a bomb under the derogation! I do not know what the PvdA Group is doing at this time of day. Just think before you say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u300	The Secretary of State goes to Brussels, with a law passed by the Second and First Chambers and with a package of measures that solves the problem of the derogation. If that is a serious plan and we have passed a good law, then the chance is very real that we will simply have a derogation in 2018 and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u301	I have two questions to get it sharp. Amendment Dik-Faber/Koşer Kaya on land-boundness is not a guarantee that all organic farmers will be spared. Does the PvdA think that all organic farmers should be protected in the final law? And should the 2017 package of measures be in line with the law as we probably adopt it next week in the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u302	As far as I know, organic farmers are always ground-bound, so I always say that land-based farmers should be kept 100% safe from generic skimming. That in the first place. And the second question was?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u303	It was about the sector's 2017 package of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u304	It seems perfectly logical to me that if we provide in the law for land-based farmers to be spared 100%, the package of measures is in line with that perfectly. That seems perfectly logical to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u305	Please continue. No, wait a minute, but Mr Dijkgraaf will have to go a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u306	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Usually, one of these second interruptions is a little longer, so... Is Mr Leender aware that 10% of organic farmers are not land-bound?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u307	No, I guess I don't know that well enough. I assumed that organic farmers are always ground-bound.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u308	You'd think so, but it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u309	Thank you very much for this information, Mr Dijkgraaf. Please continue, Mr Leenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u310	That's it, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u311	Then I would still like to do the second part of my interruption. We just agreed. Mr Dijkgraaf is right to make a point. 10% of organic farmers are not ground-bound according to the phosphate definition. Now think about that, I say to the PvdA Group. Will Mr Leenders confirm his earlier statement that farmers in the Phosphate Act, which will be in the future, must be spared, because they have no part in exceeding the phosphate ceiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u312	I think that's a good deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u313	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Graus. I'll see if he's still wearing those boots. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u314	I know for the first time in my life what feet are, Mr. Chairman. Really, my legs are soaking wet, it's brewing and it's all sticky. I hate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u315	Yeah, that's how you feel what the farmers are going through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u316	Yeah, that's exactly why. But at least I can't get my feet wet when I go home right now. Mr. Chairman. I'll keep it shorter than the rest. A lot has already been said. I will co-sign several amendments from my friends and colleagues Geurts and Professor Dijkgraaf. I just need to see which one exactly I'll be signing with. I am going to go through all this quietly this weekend and then I will certainly sign motions, if the gentlemen allow me. But they've actually already agreed to that. That's all going down here in hallways, right around back here. It's called backroom politics. So basically it's all set up, but for the stage it's nice to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u317	Everyone's awake again, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u318	Yeah, that's why. I see all these smiling faces again. Indeed, in the last ten years in which I have been a Member of Parliament, I have tabled many motions, often with colleagues. I would like to mention a few. One was about the regional cycle of manure and feed. In this motion I asked the government, in consultation with the sector, to promote a regional cycle of manure and feed and/or to allow for possible problems. That was the discussion I had with Mrs Dik-Faber. I often don't get it. It has really been a long time since I drafted and submitted this motion together with Professor Dijkgraaf. I am so sorry that in the last ten years party politics has often been practiced over the back of the BV Netherlands, over the backs of farmers, gardeners and fishermen, but also often over the backs of animals. I always try to keep the church in the middle. It also strikes me that I have never spoken to a farmer who felt that I had been too much for animals at the expense of farmers. It's the other way around. I notice that many farmers only appreciate our commitment to animal welfare. But what have I done, unlike Mrs. Ouwehand? I say: okay, we impose animal welfare standards on farmers, but then they should also have a better income model. So I am tabling a motion on a better income model for our farmers, growers and fishermen, a earning model that goes to retail. I'm glad that motion was passed. I'm very grateful for that. Look, I'm always doing something for animals and doing something for farmers, gardeners and fishermen. That's a whole different story. That's what we're here for. We can't rule out one thing or another. I started my maiden speech like this once. In that I said it's all intertwined. But I see Mrs. Ouwehand standing by the interrupting microphone. Come in, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u319	I don't have to do anything anymore. Mr. Graus is taking over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u320	Yeah, exactly. It's gonna be okay. I can think of a reason why farmers never say to Mr Graus: gosh, you do so much for animal welfare that it affects me. The reason is that Mr Graus does not indeed do so. He stands up for animals, but not for animals in the bio-industry. He does not support proposals aimed at reducing the number of animals in the bio-industry. He does not support proposals that really lead to animals in the bio-industry getting better. So yes, I understand that farmers do not say anything about it, because Mr Graus does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u321	This was not a question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u322	No, okay. I will never call Mrs Ouwehand "animal pussy" again or ever "cat head," but from now on I will call her "Pinocchio." I'll be honest with you, I've done so much. I have, by the way, had problems with livestock farmers once, namely the mink farmers. At the PVV we believe that chickens, cows, cattle and pigs are group and herd animals. They serve a primary purpose of life and are suitable for animal husbandry. A mink isn't. That's a solitary living water predator. At that point, I have had problems with farmers. Furthermore, I am indeed opposed to these mega-stables. We have also supported moves on this. Why did we do that? Because we're for small family and family businesses. We want to help the people of these companies. We do not want some rich Russian to set up a mega-tal here and that means that twenty family and family companies are going to go to hell. So we are all looking at this very closely and responsibly. I will never be able to convince Mrs Ouwehand, but whatever you think or think of our farmers, they think animal welfare is important. I know that from my own animal police and the NVWA, people who have been hanging around the farmers all the time. That's what I did. I have certainly made sure that our farmers are more closely controlled. The farmers have no problem with that either, because a good farmer has nothing to hide. There's always bad apples in there. There have also been rotten apples inside the PVV. We kicked them all out. There are rotten apples everywhere. In my family, too, there are rotten apples. I can't help it. Luckily, I belong to the good part. I just want to say that I have also provided for stricter controls on farmers. No farmer has ever blamed me for that. That is what the good farmers are for. A good farmer doesn't want to get fake competition from a guy who's got everything on his boots, literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u323	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u324	It is true that Mr Graus has been given his party to support the mink breeding ban. Thank you for that. I actually think that Mr Graus also wants more animal welfare in livestock farming, but his party simply does not always go along. That's why we see a whimsical picture at the PVV. Sometimes she supports a motion, and then again she supports all kinds of proposals that ensure that livestock farming can just grow out of thin air. So the image is inconsistent. I would say hold on to the line we had when we said "go away with mink farming." That'll help the animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u325	I have just explained to Mrs Ouwehand that we supported this because we believe that fur is a tertiary, elitist good. I'd almost say a VVD good. Fur doesn't serve a primary purpose of life. Moreover, according to all experts on the subject, a mink is simply not suitable for animal husbandry. But I will continue to support our pig and chicken farmers. Again: there are sometimes insufficient among them, but in general they do the best in the world. That's just the facts. We have to be honest about that. That's it. That's it. That's it. Mrs Ouwehand can't deny that we're doing the best we can. Our farmers are the best farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u326	Fur is a luxury until you're cold, Mr. Geurts whispers to me. I'm not gonna have a big discussion about mink farming. This subject is far beyond this debate, but I would like to put it in perspective. Mink farming also plays an important role throughout the chain. I assume that Mr Graus has also visited a large number of companies. It's not just a stand-alone sector. So let's see it in broad perspective. I hope that Mr Graus realizes that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u327	That is why I was the one who first asked to see if that would all go well and if that would get a soft landing, with a longer transitional period. That's what I've been asking for. But I have now explained several times why we have opposed it. We had good reasons for that. We're allowed to, too. But I'm not gonna deal with pig, cow or chicken farmers who are just doing the best thing in the world. Guys, we can't do that. With all due respect, Mr President, I have also said this to Mrs Ouwehand. I would prefer the animals to be here. They are world-wide communicating vessels. So you cannot ask one Secretary of State to put an end to the bio-industry. You can't do that. I give the Secretary of State a lot of power and strength, but I can't do that at all. Supply and demand are worldwide. If there are these communicating vessels, even Mrs Ouwehand must think that we should keep the small talk here in the meadow rather than get them straight to Romania or Bulgaria. That's where they have to invent the word "animal welfare." It's pitiful what you see there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u328	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u329	Mrs Ouwehand should go out with me sometime. She'd squeal otherwise, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u330	I assume Mrs Ouwehand will accept this invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u331	No, she dares and doesn't. I once tabled a motion for agricultural entrepreneurship and craftsmanship, and now it comes, I say to Mrs Ouwehand, to put nature at the heart of the matter: 'calls on the government to put agricultural entrepreneurship and craftsmanship at the heart of the preservation and management of former Dutch landscapes'. That is also what our farmers are doing best. That's just a fact. I'm proud of that, and I'm very proud of that. If a farmer doesn't do it right, so do I. I'm not the kind of person who's always talking to everyone. However, I must honestly say that as a labrador I have achieved more in politics than as a pit bull. As a labrador you get a piece of meat here and a cookie there. I've learned you have to take a step back once in a while. I've never had one comment. Positive use of the manure surplus: calls on the government to make positive use of the manure surplus by removing unnecessary obstacles to manure processing and processing to obtain construction, fire and raw materials and any final products. I even said to Minister Verburg at the time: it is crazy that we regard manure as waste, while building houses and stables in Africa. I said go build stables in the Oostvaardersplassen. Or take clogs. I'm sure if we put manure in cans, the Chinese will take it away. Maybe I'm gonna trade in manure myself to stay out of the waiting money scheme, who knows. I spoke to two organic farmers today. I talked to two cool guys in the State Passage. They said: we can supply manure pallets for the benefit of individuals, so organic manure, but that is not allowed. I see the Secretary of State consulting with the messenger. Just keep going. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u332	Proceed, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u333	I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. How is it possible that organic farmers might have missed this just now, because they want to supply manure pallets to a local shop, so that individuals can not use the grain of manure? I'd like to take that away for my plants, my trees and you name it. How can that not be allowed? You can't do that. That's unlikely, isn't it? I'd like a response to this. I think this should be possible. Leave those people! This is the brown gold. At first I called it the black gold, but that got me into trouble with old miners, because once the coal was the black gold. It was a bit sensitive for me as a Limburger. So I started calling it the brown gold. We're gonna have to do a lot more with that. Years I've needed to get a Chamber majority for extracting phosphates. That's gonna be the future. In 20 years, phosphates will even be extracted from human faeces and urine. That's just gonna happen. That's the future. It's the gold of the future. It's necessary to bind oxygen. It is a primary need for life, but we sit here all night considering manure as a waste. I can't reach that. You really don't have to be an agricultural engineer or an economist for that. They can tell you tomorrow what went wrong the day before yesterday, but as a clog farmer from Heerlen, I predict this will happen. The importance of farmers over the European Union. Mrs Dik-Faber felt that this motion was too short and therefore she did not support it. I think that's a very good reason. I asked for the importance of Dutch farmers, growers and fishermen to be placed above that of the European Union in the negotiations in order to ensure their competitiveness and a level playing field. Our farmers are also the largest net payers per capita. Meanwhile, megas are being built in that horrible Eastern bloc, where they still have to invent the word "animal welfare." They will then compete with our farmers. We're just paying for our own competition. I can't reach that either. Furthermore, money spent on agriculture is being used to build jeu-de-boules. That's unbelievable. I think the Secretary of State should act against that. Waiver of fertilising-free zones. A motion like that won't make it. I can't reach it. Pretty good to look at all these motions like this. I'd like to know what's going on with the execution of all these motions. Some motions have been adopted, for example the motion on extracting the very scarce phosphates. What's going on with that right now? We may therefore be off the phosphate ceiling in one go. Now that my motion has been passed, there should be no more phosphate ceiling at all. The Chamber supported me. Turns out this is a very rich substance, why would you want less of it? I'd say more, more... "Less, less" I wouldn't dare say anymore, because I'd be in court right now. There is a motion on the non-rigid application of EU directives. I tabled that motion in response to a conversation I had with a Commissioner of the European Union. You always get nice conversations bilaterally. The Commissioner said that the Dutch government is doing far too much and is implementing the rules far too strict. And indeed, they are the best boy in the class and they want to be; I cannot understand that either. Just stop doing that. The French don't either. Really. The French are much more chauvinistic. You can call it "patriotism." They protect their farms, their farmers and their fisherman much better. We don't do that. We're just gonna let everything happen. We are always going to be in this victim role: no, we have to be in the EU and we have to be in the EU. No, nothing, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We can do that if we go behind that together, because they need us and our products. I was just talking about those milk products in China. Those Chinese, it's mob; really, honestly, it's been on television. Everyone wants Dutch products. Like everyone wants to wear a Swiss watch, everyone wants to have our products; that's just the way it is. In Germany, too, you can see that. I think we should be more proud of that. We must be more proud of the Dutch flag and we must do much more with our products. I also think that we should better profile our products in the supermarkets. The Secretary of State can do something about that, too. I asked for this in the budget. I believe that the products of our farmers should be at eye level and the rest above and below them. It's gonna be a sausage to me, but our products just need to be visible to the people. They must be recognizable as Dutch products. I know that some of the millions of Dutch people will buy those products earlier and will also be willing to pay a little more to help our people. Those people exist, but you can't even recognize those products. You often cannot see whether it is a Dutch product or not. We're gonna have to do more about that. I would also like to receive a response to that failure to apply these directives. Why are these directives being applied? Why is everything being carried out so rigidly and strictly? Take the effects of the generic discount on dairy farms. Gopekee, none of that's gonna make it. Would you like to say something, Mr Geurts? You've all signed those motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u334	We are here tonight discussing the Law on land-based growth dairy farming, at least part of it...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u335	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u336	... and the phosphate rights. Mr Graus's speaking time continues. I'd like to remind him of that. Does he have anything to say about the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u337	Sure, you always save the best for last. We'll be there in a minute. I thought it was important to share this. I never get a chance to speak to farmers, because a PVV-tokkie hardly ever gets to be in the magazine. So I have to take advantage of it now that I have all farmers in front of me, so if Mr Geurts will allow me... I have also slightly modified my text. I thought, "Now those people are here; now I can do it sometime." Mr Geurts is always allowed to speak for farmers, but I am not. So I'm happy to do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u338	I'm gonna have to think about that last one. I'll record that with the organizers. I will ask them if we can do something together sometime; then Mr Graus will do it ridiculously and then I will do the content. If Mr Graus is explaining so many motions, then perhaps he can explain to the House why he voted in favour of a motion on the calf with the cow at the time. I'm curious about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u339	That was about an investigation to look into that. No decision has yet been taken on that at all. In fact, I find it difficult for that to be looked at; Mrs Ouwehand can confirm that. Why is that? Because part of the farmers says, no, you should never do that; please don't do it. We've also had very sad peasants here. They say, "No, it's animal cultivation; you shouldn't do that." But there have also been a lot of farmers who said to me: well, we are doing it and there is nothing going on at all. I'm sorry, but I'm not an expert on the subject. I must have looked into that. I just don't know. That is why I said: go check it out with the sector and with veterinarians. That is why I supported the request to see whether this is possible and what is possible. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u340	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u341	I'll go through it a little faster. Mr Geurts has a point, of course, because I can go on for a while. I think that two motions are actually the most important ones. I started doing this once when I had just arrived in the Chamber, namely the one on the waiver of the implementation of Natura 2000 legislation. With all due respect, I think that Europe will always exist, and I am a proud European too, but that the European Union has had its longest time if it continues to do so. There could be a switch; I don't know. We are the only ones who have always said: stop this Natura 2000; just stop it. We had much better things for each other here before these European activities. The European Union has only been suffocating and has put a noose around our entrepreneurs' necks. I've always said that for ten years. No one supported me in it. No one at all. I predicted it all. Now it is time and now all of a sudden everyone has to help the farmers. That's what makes me sad. People often didn't support me because I'm a PVV guy. In the beginning, that was very much the case. But we see that I've just gotten right. We've been right a lot. That is why I always ask my fellow Members to look at the operative part and take a little more account of the fact that I have been so often right. I have many times predicted things here that have come true. Whether this is related to the postal market, to KLM or to the crisis I predicted as early as 2006, I have already mentioned the banking crisis and the nationalisation of the banks in 2006, I have a sixth sense, although I am a simple boy and have no title. I've got a sixth sense, and I've got something pretty quick on my mind. I think that Members should take this into account a little more slowly. If someone gets right over and over again, you should follow him. The second and important motion was fortunately adopted. It was about the better and fairer earning model. How's that going? Has there been any consultation with the retailers? Those people are profiting. I do not even think that consumers should be involved. It's got to be with the retailers. We impose animal welfare standards on farmers. I've been a part of that, too. I'm telling you the truth. They are feasible and applicable, but they also need to be given more money. That's the condition. Everyone agrees. You notice that the purchasing behaviour is changing. That's gonna take a long time, and it's gonna take a while, but we're gonna go there. There's a difference in purchasing behaviour. I want that charged to the retail. Then I'll have to consult with the retailers. The Secretary of State is just tweeting, I see, maybe with his wife or for consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u342	My wife's already asleep!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u343	However, if he can respond to that, because that is what I think is the most important response I want to get, namely what is going on with the better income model for farmers, gardeners and fishermen. In order to regain control of manure production, the State Secretary intends to introduce a phosphate rights system through legislative changes. We are against that. At some point, however, we have to go as a second best. There have also been farmers who do not agree, but people who need to be made clear quickly. That's what I told Secretary of State Dijksma at the time. That's why we had to come. If you can't stop it, it's best to work for a second. So everything I'm saying right now is second best. We do not want the Netherlands to lose the derogation. I see there's a good chance this is gonna happen. The derogation means that the Netherlands may produce more manure than has been agreed, provided it can be demonstrated that the production level of phosphate from 2002 will not be broken. Then you have to check: 2002. At that time we did not know at all the importance of phosphates, not even worldwide. I told you, the Chinese just don't deliver it anymore. Your own people first. We should do that a little more. The Moroccans are about to turn it against us strategically. Those mines are gonna get exhausted and we're gonna get in trouble. So let's just do something with it. A production level from 2002 of phosphate. At that time, that importance was not known at all. Then the scientists weren't at all over it either, some were, but not the masses. There will also be the system of skimming. For each transfer of phosphate rights, 10% of those rights shall expire. There are exceptions to this skimming. We have also contributed to this by co-signing a motion from the CDA. Among other things, there was talk of transfer to relatives up to the third degree. Those are all those second best things you're trying to save. Next, the government also brings forward the Law on land-based growth dairy farming. There are actually two plans and one of them is from the farmers, the social dairy organisations led by Mr Vogelaar. The second is the plan B, the plan land-based dairy farming of the Institute of Agricultural Law. What is possible of these plans to be applied and feasible in practice, including consultation with the sector? I notice that a lot of farmers do not feel represented by LTO nor by other organisations. There are many farmers who say: they do not speak on our behalf; I do not think they represent us sufficiently, that they are too concerned with their own will. I'd like it if there were just a few people from the front. Most people at LTO are, but if you're in an office too long, you have to be careful not to get your office clenched. I want people who are still active and who are not sitting too much in the office to be involved. Would the Secretary of State want to do that? I would like to have a response to the question as to whether all this is applicable and financially feasible, so that I can make a decision on this. Then I have a few more questions, but I also have to leave something for the second term. I ask the Secretary of State to help and assist the farmers' organisations with their alternative plans. The Secretary of State has a whole battery of civil servants. I also know that they are working hard and busy, but also use them to help, so that it all goes faster and the feasibility, financial feasibility and legal sustainability are carefully considered. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has a lot of power, power and knowledge that can be shared with farmers' organisations. Is the Secretary of State prepared, if it goes wrong, to remove the phosphate ceiling and say that to the European Union? An alleyway, as it is called with a nice German word, is possible, but we must all want it. Maybe we should, in the national interest. Again, I firmly believe that we need Europe to trade, and certainly a country like Germany, but our products are wanted worldwide, even without being a member of the European Union. That is simply a fact, because we have always done so without the European Union. In the past, together with the CDA and the SGP, I have tabled a motion on the problems. An amendment from the CDA has now been distributed on a problem regulation. I would also like to co-sign it to Mr Geurts. Then I do not have to make a separate amendment to that effect. I have already asked, but we attach great importance to maintaining derogations. What are the alternatives? Come up with a future-proof and competitive plan, in consultation with the sector. There's no such thing right now. We are all working as groceries, but there must be one big, future-proof and competitive plan, in consultation with the sector. I am also curious, even for a second, what would happen if the derogation were to expire. I would have liked to have answered that. Madam President. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to finish because I'm gonna run out of time. I hope you'll put an end to my time. Thank you. Then I still have time for the second term. I wish everyone a blessed night. Thanks. I'm very curious to hear what the Secretary of State is going to say. I hope for broad support from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u344	Mr Graus asks what happens if there is no longer a derogation. I would ask Mr Graus to vote in favour of the amendment that I have tabled, that the Phosphate Act should at least not enter into force. There is a second question I would like to ask. It's late at night, so maybe I wasn't quite sharp. What will Mr Graus do with the Phosphate Act itself? He talked about the Law on land-based growth, but that was about the AMvB that becomes part of the Act on responsible growth dairy farming. That's where he linked the two plans that lie in the sector. But what will Mr Graus do with the Phosphate Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u345	I am not going to do anything about it, of course, but I am advising the group and it will decide. I have built up a position and a lot of confidence within my group. If I recommend anything, it will be taken over in 99% of the cases. I have asked a lot of questions, because there are still a lot of uncertainties. That is why I await the response of the Secretary of State before I can make a good decision. The amendment sounds sympathetic, like other amendments, but I'm going to call all the farmers I know this weekend and then I'm going to ask them what they look like. These are the people who know what the consequences can be. I'll also call some farmers' organizations. I just want to, because this is a very technical file. I'm not gonna do that on my own. I'm just saying that honestly. So I'm gonna wait and see. I am also going to study Mrs Lodder's amendment over the next weekend. I go in consultation with farmers' organizations. They also often give voting opinions. I'm also gonna call farmers and maybe I'm gonna visit some farmers. That's how I always work. I work with very short lines. And then I'm gonna make a decision. Anyone who already makes a decision is ahead of the music, because that is not possible at all. You don't know what the Secretary of State is gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u346	It cannot be the case that, if the derogation does not go ahead, we are currently confronting the sector with the failure to continue with the derogation and with the Phosphate Act. I think it is a very sympathetic amendment. I really hope for the support of Mr Graus. Still, I'm sorry. Certainly, Mr Graus is asking a lot of questions, but about all kinds of motions that are not about the Phosphate Act. Of course, he also asks a number of questions about the law. Can Mr Graus say what his first feeling is about this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u347	What Mrs. Lodders says is really wrong. I've spent ten years trying to prevent this mess. That's just a fact. That's why I have here the evidence for the last ten years. There's a couple of them, but I've got a whole pile of them here. I just don't have time to go into that because I'm out of speaking time. I could have gone through here for another hour. I just want to point out that we should listen to each other a little more, because not everyone has all the wisdom. Sometimes people just get it right. Then it should not be thought: ah, the PVV again, those PVV-tokkies, racists, brown shirts. Hoppakee. Especially in the beginning this was how we were treated. I'm right over and over and I just want to prove it. Then none of that would have been necessary. I didn't trip the farmers. I've done everything I can to keep the farmers from falling. Others have done so; they are going to lay hands on the peasants now that they have fallen. I didn't want our farmers to go crazy. That's the point. That is a very essential thing. If Mrs Lodder's amendment is as sympathetic as she says it is, I'm going to look at it. I might like to co-sign it, but that's not allowed by the VVD. 'Cause Mrs. Lodders can't sign with a PVV tock. Or other parties are going to say "if Graus is under it, I won't support your amendment anymore." That's the way it is. That's how people work here, and that's what I find in and in and in sad. We are very often not concerned with national interests at all. We are engaged in party politics, over the back of farmers, gardeners and fishermen, over the back of animals. It's nothing but party politics, and I'm sick of it. That's all you need to know. I'm really sorry about that. Now I'm gonna get excited. It was a nice, cozy evening further, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u348	You have made your point, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u349	I'm really glad it happened. We're going on a blessed night, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u350	We'll see you later, 'cause I'm about to suspend until 1:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u351	I would like to repeat the request I made at the beginning of the evening. A world of questions has been fired at the Secretary of State. This is not a question of a faint delay tactic or anything, but of care. We really want to weigh up the answers of the Secretary of State: what has the Secretary of State replied? Honestly, I just don't think it's justified to go on like this. As far as I'm concerned, this is on Tuesday afternoon's roll first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u352	No, because next week we will be dealing with budgets. I'm just gonna get back in line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u353	I stand by the opinion I expressed later: no support for this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u354	Although you probably think that I am not the best messenger in this matter, I state in all objectivity that this is not careful. A lot of questions have been asked and there are many open ends. There will be no clarity if we conclude this quickly tonight. Then there's a lot left open. I would argue for clarity, for a careful response by the Secretary of State and for a careful second term of office. I therefore call for the debate to be suspended now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u355	As far as I am concerned, we shall continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u356	The Christian Union would also like to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u357	As far as we're concerned, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u358	I've been in this room until 5:00 in the morning. I think we should just finish the debate. Next week we'll be full again and then I'll fear the worst. Unless we get back together in the morning and then move on, around ten, as usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u359	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u360	It is clear that there is a majority in favour of concluding the debate today. I won't save you from that, because that's no use. Let us try to break the record of this Chamber. For the people in the public gallery, I notice that this record is at 05.38 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u361	The majority of the Chamber wants to conclude the debate today. How long it takes us depends on the Chamber. It depends on how many times they interrupt and how long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u362	Mr. Chairman. It's a special time. As you know, before this debate, I came back earlier from a trip to California with agricultural companies, food and technology companies. For me, it's still somewhere at the end of the afternoon, so I can take it for a while. Unfortunately, we started with a full gallery, the buses had to return already after I spoke for full rooms earlier in Zwolle and Veghel. We also continued there for a long time, with long chatting with each other. This is an important debate for the future of dairy farming. We have seen this in the great commitment. While two years ago it was thought that the end of milk quotas would offer opportunities in particular, concerns dominated mostly today. This debate brings greater clarity to that point, but for real certainty, at least another year has to be waited. This genuine certainty comes from Brussels, in the form of a new derogation, an exception to the Brussels fertilising rules. With this debate we are taking an important step forward in the discussions there. As I have noticed recently, many farmers are longing for the clarity that this debate can bring. It is therefore nice to be standing here and to be able to talk to the Chamber about two legislative proposals which have a major impact on the management of dairy farming. First of all, I will deal with the reason for the laws and the process towards them. Next, I will discuss the Law on soil-based growth dairy farming, with the corresponding amendments, then the amendment of the Fertilisers Act to introduce a system of phosphate rights, with the corresponding amendments, and finally I will address the questions that have been asked about the package to reduce phosphate production in 2017. The reason for this debate lies in the expiry of the milk quota. That offered great opportunities, was the expectation, because there was finally room to grow. Many farmers and sector organisations, and I believe some in the Chamber, celebrated this as a day of liberation, because it was finally possible to meet the rising demand on the world market. At that time, it seemed as if there was also scope for achieving this growth within the environmental boundary conditions. That offered a lot of choices, including for the farmers. Did they have to expand or not? There was also a warning at that time, here in the Chamber, as we noted last week, that it would cause problems if there were no new restrictions in place. However, scientific studies showed a different picture at the time. These studies provided for growth, in particular of milk production and the dairy herd, but the expectation of the LEI and the PBL was that it could all be within the environmental boundary conditions. The Chamber received those conclusions in the letter from my predecessor, Secretary of State Dijksma, dated December 2013. Mr Grashoff and some others asked. On the basis of the data available at the time, there was no reason to decide on production limiting measures, as stated in the December 2013 letter. That letter was widely supported in the Chamber. Indeed, there was a mandatory manure treatment system before and the December 2013 letter announced a system of responsible growth. In addition, the various sectors concerned themselves said that they would take measures to ensure that the growth of dairy farming would remain within the environmental limits. It has always been clear, however, that it has always been stated by my predecessor that, if the phosphate ceiling were to be exceeded, there would be irrevocable production-limiting measures. Since then, since December 2013, we have seen a lot of growth over the last three years. Farmers have chosen to do so, of course supported by financiers. We have tried to seize the opportunities that lie ahead as quickly as possible. This is reflected in the number of newly built stables and in the substantial increase in the number of cows. The result now, three years later, is that unfortunately this has created a great risk for Dutch dairy farming. Indeed, many dairy farmers make use of the derogation from the Nitrates Directive, the exception to fertilising rules. They are allowed to use more manure on their own land and thus reduce the costs for the disposal or treatment of manure that they would not otherwise have been able to use on their own land. However, the reason that the Netherlands has had that derogation since 2006 is therefore already ten years old... is not that financial advantage for dairy farmers. Dairy farming has become financially dependent on it over the years, but that is not why we get the EU's derogation. We get it because there is a solid scientific basis that in the Dutch climate grass and manure from grazing animals are a very good combination. The use of extra manure does not pose an increased risk to the quality of soil and surface water. This also confirms monitoring results. Groundwater quality among dairy farms using derogation is in principle better than groundwater quality among many other farms. It is therefore only right that the Netherlands should have a derogation. It is also desirable from an environmental point of view that the derogation should be retained. Without a derogation, less manure may be used on land, there will be a higher excess of manure, more fertilizer must be used, less grass will be left in our landscape and there will probably be fewer cows in the pasture. So there is not only an economic interest, but also a very great social interest; I would like to emphasise that. It is therefore very important that the Netherlands not only retain the current derogation, but can also make use of a new derogation from 2018. The Chamber can therefore rely on a number of Members of Parliament to ask that I and with me the entire team working on this at the Ministry and at the Dutch Representation in Brussels do everything in our power to obtain a new derogation. That trajectory starts this month. The Chamber will have the sixth action programme this month. That is the beginning of the path to a new derogation, starting from 2018. A number of Members of Parliament have asked for my commitment to what I said earlier about lowering the ceiling and possibly balancing it. The commitment described in the letter that the Chamber received from me on March 3rd of this year is like a house. That is what we are going to do: to negotiate a derogation which takes into account all the things contained in that letter. I will make every effort to do so. I will fight for that, I say to Mrs Dik-Faber, because she heard me say the same in Zwolle. I am fully convinced that it is important and good for the Netherlands. However, I would like to add that it is going to be quite a bone. I would like to make it clear that it is not natural and absolutely certain that the Netherlands can continue to make use of the derogation. The reason for this is well known to all of you. The derogation is also subject to a very specific condition: the amount of phosphate that can be produced in the Netherlands. That condition has been in place for many years and is therefore also known. In 2015, due to the rapid growth, we produced too much manure and thus too much phosphate. The phosphate ceiling will also be exceeded in 2016. Of course, we are very sorry about that, because in Brussels there is an agreement. We must also realise that derogation is not a right, but a favour given to us by the European Commission. The European Commission is advised on this by the Nitrate Committee, in which the Member States are represented. Today we are talking about what we have to do to restore the excess of the phosphate ceiling. A number of Members of Parliament have asked how this process has been conducted in recent times. On 2 July 2015, the Chamber received a letter from my predecessor, Mrs Dijksma, announcing that we would introduce a phosphate rights system in order to ensure that phosphate production would not exceed the ceiling. This has been the subject of direct discussions, including with representatives of the European Commission. In July 2015, consultations were held on this subject at various times. A lot of written information has also been exchanged. And we took the initiative to present the situation and the proposed approach in the Nitrates Committee last June, with which we also formally informed the other Member States. These contacts were, as usual, at all different levels: both at the technical level, at the high level of administration and at the political level. Coherence between these levels is essential. Some MPs noted that it was clear that there was State aid. They asked, "How could you not see that?" Let me make it quite clear: we have certainly seen this and certainly foreseen it. We assumed that the European Commission would come to the conclusion that there would be State aid. After all, it is a system of negotiable licences, rights are granted free of charge, they are freely negotiable, they will be scarce, and therefore they will be valued in economic terms. Mr Grashoff said: that makes sense. It is: it is logical that this is state aid. But that is not the issue at all. The question is: can state aid be compatible? Is it permissible on the basis of the European guidelines? To ensure that, you have guidelines that clarify the circumstances under which state aid may be permitted and under which circumstances not. Therefore, the legislation has been drawn up in such a way as to comply with the guidelines for environmental objectives and energy. That is why, immediately after the adoption of the legislative proposal by the Council of Ministers on 2 June this year, the consultation in Brussels was widened, including with the Commission's people involved in state aid, in accordance with the normal procedure in this type of procedure. I shall now go into the substance of the matter. It was only after the summer, mid-September, that it became clear that the European Commission did not want to see the phosphate rights system as lawful state aid. Of course, this was discussed very intensively with the European Commission at all levels, including at my level. Unfortunately, the conclusion of all these contacts was that the European Commission remained in line with its opinion. I will go into the substance of that judgment and also explain to the House why that was very unexpected for us. As I said, State aid can be declared compatible with the internal market by the European Commission. It was our commitment to ensure that state aid would also be declared as such. And it's not a matter of arbitrariness. It is not the case that an official in the European Commission wakes up badly one day and says: I do not declare it lawful this time. No, it's all fixed in guidelines. Those guidelines are pretty clear. Mr Dijkgraaf and Mrs Lodder also referred to this in the further report issued by the Chamber on the proposal for the phosphate rights system. Those guidelines state that State aid should not be granted for the purpose of compliance with Union standards. However, it explicitly states that a Union standard is not applicable where that standard applies to the level of the Member State. A Union standard exists when an individual company has to comply with a European rule. That is exactly the background to these state aid rules. They say, in fact, that if the EU makes rules for all companies, then of course a Member State cannot say: you know what I'm going to do, I'm going to favour my companies, I'm going to grant them subsidies to comply with those rules. That is what the State aid frameworks are for. What they emphasise is that standards adopted at EU level that are binding only on Member States are not considered to be Union standards. The European Commission was very surprised to see that it saw the national production ceiling from the derogation as a Union standard, a standard which would therefore apply to each individual undertaking. I hope that the Chamber can imagine that we were very uncomfortablely surprised by that judgment. We also looked at whether it was possible to challenge this judgment, so that phosphate rights can be introduced before 1 January 2017. The problem with this is that when you grant state aid, and that is the case when you grant marketable rights, which can only be done if that measure has been approved by the European Commission. If you provide that support when it has not been approved, it is by definition not allowed. You can have a dispute with the Commission, but you can't say: I'm doing it anyway. At that moment, the discussion will be over immediately. Then it is illegal state aid. And then what you have to do is recover that state aid from the recipients. And in this case, these are the dairy farmers. Those we want to help with this system would therefore be the ones to whom we would have to recover the value created by state aid. I have decided that I cannot, will not and therefore will not run, because it is a risk that I will walk with the dairy farmers' wallets. A corridor to the European Court of Justice was not an option either. In this situation too, the aid can only be granted once a formal authorisation has been received. So that would not have been helpful either. In October, therefore, I had no choice but to decide on the basis of the Commission's opinion, which I have already said was impossible to move. I had no choice but to amend the bill and allow the system as a whole to enter into force in 2018. The original bill provided for a first step in 2017, namely reducing production to the 2015 level. But it was not until 2018 that production had to be reduced to below the level of the derogation. The problem was caused by the explanation given by the European Commission to the State aid guidelines. Because the Commission says that there is an EU standard, which I very much dispute, the Commission also says that you should not apply state aid to comply with that standard. This also means that that opinion forces us to bring phosphate production under the ceiling by another route in 2017. The law wouldn't have done that anyway. If we had to go below the ceiling with phosphate production, private measures would have to be taken anyway. But through this judgment we have had to make a package that will lead to a sufficient reduction in phosphate production in 2017. I will come back to that package for 2017. I have a few more general questions and I would then like to discuss the legislation with the Chamber. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether the Nitrate Directive was being exceeded. And is that only agriculture? At the end of June, the European Commission received the Nitrates Directive reporting for the previous period. The overall development is positive, but especially on the sandy soils in the south and east of the country nitrate values in groundwater are still higher than the standard value of 50 mg per litre. In part of the surface waters, also elsewhere than in the sandy area, there is eutrophication, which can partly be traced back to agriculture. The Nitrates Directive is also about reducing it. The new sixth action programme will therefore also include measures to prevent these exceedances. That is what we are going to discuss with the European Commission. Mr Geurts asked for the sixth action programme and for the whole of the next year to discuss the action programme and the derogation. He asked: can you inform us in advance? I'll do that. I will inform the Chamber for Christmas about my commitment to the Sixth Action Programme. Part of the justification required for the Sixth Action Programme is already available. The Court received the Nitrates Directive report in July and the derogation report. Another part of the evaluation of the Fertilisers Act is still working on the identification and justification of possible measures. I'll give it to the Chamber as soon as these are completed. Both Mr Geurts and Mrs Lodder asked: can we be kept informed of progress next year? Ms Lodders also asked to be kept informed of the progress of the 2017 package by receiving a quarterly report on it. I am prepared to inform the Chamber every quarter of the progress of discussions with Brussels. This applies both to the package and to the discussions on the Sixth Action Programme and the derogation. Mrs Lodders asked if I am prepared to support research into the recovery of phosphate from the innovation budget. There are funds in my budget for innovation in the top sector of Agri & Food. There is now a research programme on the added value of manure, of which the recovery of phosphate is an important aspect. Mr Graus asked about the implementation of his motion on the extraction of scarce phosphate, which is a valuable asset. My predecessor, Secretary of State Dijksma, informed the Chamber on 24 February 2015 in a letter explaining how the circular economy is being stimulated and how we can work on the use of renewable fertilisers. So that information has already been received by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u363	I am very surprised by the reasoning behind the state aid. It seems to be a very technical discussion whether or not something is a Union standard. If I try to translate it back into Dutch, it comes down to this. If you had to comply with the normal, strict EU standard, you should not help companies to comply, because this is state aid. But if you have been granted an exception for a much wider standard, it would therefore be no problem in the view of the Dutch government to grant state aid to meet that standard. I can imagine 100% that this is bizarre from the perspective of the European Commission and also that this was an obvious risk. I still do not understand why the Secretary of State, with all his officials and all his lawyers, has been able to take this risky path. He could have just chosen "not negotiable."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u364	I should like to deal with Mr Grashoff's question in the debate on the law. He says, "You could have just chosen non-negotiable." I have, of course, looked at this very extensively. The consequence of non-tradeability is that everyone will do everything in their power to avoid it. Because you can always sell companies to someone else. If you want to transfer the rights that rest on a company to someone else, you sell the whole company. That way, you'll still be handing over rights. "Not negotiable" is theoretically possible, but in practice a way around it will be found. The second point is that you have to set up a system with regard to rights that may come back from people who say, "I quit my business. I'm not selling it, but I'm sending the rights back to the government." That will not be many, I think, but then the government will have to decide which company may or may not grow. This means that the government will then be the one to regulate the entire sector. Then you get a centrally managed dairy sector in the Netherlands. This deprives companies of the opportunity to make their own choices in the development of their business. It means that you are totally dependent on the regulations the government makes, where the government says: this company is allowed to grow and that company is not. If you fall out there, your company will be locked forever. I think that is a particularly undesirable situation. Dairy farmers are just free entrepreneurs and they need to be able to make their own choices about the development of their businesses. That can only be done when you make phosphate rights negotiable. That is not a bad system either, because we have it in the case of pig rights and in the case of poultry rights. Then we come to the question about the state aid aspects. These two systems have both been approved by the European Commission. The European Commission has not so much a problem with the system as with its introduction. The discussion is about the EU standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u365	It is good that the Secretary of State responds once again to the apparently fundamental point of government intervention in the sector in his view. If you have a system without negotiable rights, you have a fully regulated sector by the government. I'm just fundamentally disagreeing with the Secretary of State. Anything we do about regulation, i.e. tax regulation, environmental legislation or whatever, would all be covered by the same conclusion, namely that a sector can only exist by the grace of certain regulations. Of course, that's not true at all. This would mean that we should stop regulating businesses at all. Doesn't the Secretary of State simply agree with me that the whole issue of the so-called principle is just politics with a big P and it seems that his coalition partner, the VVD, felt that the free market should go ahead here instead of a certain regulation that could have had all kinds of forms of more or less strict and reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u366	No, I found that myself. I don't think that's entirely illogical either. In the alternative that Mr Grashoff has in mind, you have a permit system for scarce space. The production area for phosphate is scarce. There is a need to produce more, especially in an increasing market. This means that the government has to divide up that scarce space. I assume that Mr Grashoff does not mean that the government should auction it for the highest bidder. From his point of view, it would also be very undesirable for the government to have to determine by rules who is the first to have the right to that permit to be released. This means that the government will then draw up all kinds of criteria that you have to meet. Only if you meet those criteria can you be eligible. This means that companies that cannot meet these criteria, for example through the place where they sit, will never be able to expand. These companies then lock you up completely, so you no longer have a free market in which dairy farmers are free entrepreneurs who can make choices about their own business. They are now. Mr Grashoff has a fundamentally different view of what the sector should be like. My view is not that this should be a total government-controlled sector. There are a lot of rules. The government sets a lot of boundaries, but there is still something like free entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u367	The crux of the story is that Europe said that marketability was made possible when the excess of the phosphate ceiling had not been reduced to the desired level. That is why it is quite logical for Europe to see this as state aid. I do not understand why this has been such a shock to the Secretary of State and that no one was paying attention to it. But I have another question. The Secretary of State has still not given a timeline to which we can see when he has done exactly what and with whom he has spoken. In any case, I would like this Secretary of State to answer the question as to when exactly he has been involved in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u368	I shall begin by addressing Mrs Koşer Kaya's first question. She is actually saying what she asked for in her term: was it not clear that it was state aid? Yeah, that's what I said. That's obvious. That's just not what this is about. This is not about whether it is state aid but about whether it is permissible State aid. For this purpose, the European Commission gives an interpretation of the guidelines. In my view, these guidelines state the opposite, namely that if an EU standard is not a rule for an individual company, it is a standard to which the Member State must comply, which is not an EU standard within the meaning of the guidelines. If you take the guideline, Mrs Koşer Kaya, you will see that it is not allowed to grant state aid to comply with the EU standard. Evident was that this is not and should be an EU standard within the meaning of those guidelines. If you are literally looking at the text of those guidelines, then what we are doing must fit in there. That should be permissible state aid. I just told you how things went in time. As soon as this draft law was completed, we have made contact with the European Commission's state aid people. I had been working on the phosphate rights system almost daily, but at least weekly, as from my arrival last year, to reassure you, because that is one of the most far-reaching dossiers in my portfolio. We made contact with the Commission's state aid people in June. That's what you do as soon as you get the lines. Then they can look at that, too. That's what we've been talking about. At that time, there were no objections that ultimately led to the amendment of the bill. They weren't on the table until mid-September. From that moment on, of course, I have been involved in this every day, sometimes several times a day. I have coordinated with my team that is conducting the talks in Brussels. First, there is always consultation at the technical level. That's how it works. After that, we held consultations at a high level of administration as soon as possible. I myself discussed this with Commissioner Verstager and other informal contacts. The conclusion of all these discussions was that the European Commission, particularly DG Competition, did not intend to reach a different conclusion. That meant that I had to conclude that I can't take any further risk, that I couldn't let the Chamber deal with this law, because that would put me at a very serious risk to the farmers' wallet and I'm not prepared to do so. That's why I've decided to change the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u369	I asked a pretty simple question. I'm not talking about "we," I'm talking about the Secretary of State. When did this Secretary of State himself intervene intensively in this process? I was told from several quarters that the Secretary of State was absent and that the problem was that he did not accompany this process in time and not in front. When did the Secretary of State deal with this process intensively?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u370	I can't do that much with the remark "I got to hear that." In any case, these are not informed sources, because, as I have said, I have been working very intensively on this dossier since I was Secretary of State, and I myself have talked to several European Commissioners about it in order to inform them. As of mid-September, when it became clear that the European Commission considered that there could be no authorised state aid, I dealt with this day in and day out. If your question is how intensive I did that, the answer is: day in, day out, Mrs Koşer Kaya, and of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u371	From October.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u372	No, no. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u373	My question is also about this, because several parties are constantly suggesting that the Secretary of State could have done or should have done more to maintain that derogation. Does he share that view of a large part of the Chamber? Does he share what is expressed in that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u374	No, but I understand perfectly well that people are asking that question. We have a great interest in derogation, and the Chamber may also expect me to do everything I can to do about it. That's exactly what I'm doing. However, we had assumed that with the phosphate rights system we would take a very important step, and that we would be able to convince the European Commission as well. There have been many contacts, including with the European Commission, at all levels, which gave us the impression that we would take a step which would be convincing for the European Commission. The problem arose when, in assessing the legislative proposal, which had been drawn up entirely on the basis of the existing guidelines, the competition authorities came to the conclusion that, in their view, there could be no permissible State aid. That has been done in a very short time frame, within the course of a few weeks. At that time I had to come to the conclusion that it would not be justified to go through with the law in its unchanged form. So I had to change the law because otherwise we would run into that wall of the European Commission. It is precisely then that we would be at great risk with this derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u375	Not only with regard to the legislative proposal, but also with regard to the Sixth Nitrates Directive action programme, the Secretary of State's general commitment is to preserve the derogation. I'm asking because it's not the first time I've heard the Chamber say this. That is what she said to Secretary of State Dijksma and to her predecessors. From these parties, the message is always: the Secretary of State simply needs to do more. As a result, you will not get to the discussion about whether the package with which the Chamber sent the Secretary of State actually offers enough opportunities to maintain the derogation. I would like that focus in the debate. Does the Secretary of State say here: I do enough and I don't know what else I could do? When he says that, hopefully the discussion will shift to the content of the package and everyone's responsibility by voting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u376	I say to Mrs Ouwehand that it is obvious that the problem lies in the amount of phosphate we produce. That's the problem. The problem is not in our contacts with Brussels or anything else. Some people talk about it very easily. I understand that very well. I heard one of the MPs say, "Just take care of it." If it were that easy, we wouldn't have been standing here with each other and we wouldn't have had to discuss such a complicated law today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u377	The interesting thing is that in the meantime, I think Mrs Ouwehand is no longer controlling the government, but the Chamber. But she can do that. She can do anything. My question is about that package. Has the Secretary of State ever sat around the table in Brussels with one or more European Commissioners and said: can we not make such a package, because we have agreed such a phosphate ceiling, but everyone understands that it is water quality? Has he ever said: can we talk about company-specific derogation or export netting? Did the Secretary of State have that conversation intensively at that level too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u378	It must be made clear what Mr Dijkgraaf is referring to. A number of questions he raises will be discussed in the discussion on a future derogation. But we now have the current, the current derogation. There are conditions to this. And the reaction that all the levels in Brussels, including the Commissioners, give me, is: before you can talk about other things, you will first have to ensure that you meet the conditions you have committed yourself to. I can give a concrete example to Mr Dijkgraaf. I have, of course, spoken about mineral concentrate. We believe that we have a very good story to expand the exceptions we have. On that story I get exactly the same reaction: you can come and talk to us about anything, if you stick to the agreements first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u379	That's the world upside down, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u380	No, that's definitely not the world upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u381	That's definitely the world upside down. Surely you can say in Brussels: of course we are going to keep our commitments. You can say: fine, we will take care of that, but then we want to talk about a total package. You have to say: we deliver, you deliver, and let's see if we can make a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u382	So that's exactly what we're doing now. That's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u383	But it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u384	No. We now have an acute, topical problem with the height of our phosphate production. The final figures for exceeding the phosphate ceiling in 2015 became available just before the summer. This is the first time that we have officially established that we have exceeded that phosphate ceiling. That's a problem we're gonna have to solve. This also gives us the opportunity to talk about a future derogation from 2018. It also includes all the questions raised by Mr Dijkgraaf. Some of these questions will also be addressed in the Sixth Action Programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u385	We asked for a factual account in the written round of the legal proceedings. We have asked for this on several occasions, even last week when we discussed the budget. We are asking for this again today. Every time, new pieces of information come out. But apparently we have to continue to do this to complete the picture. That is why I am asking the following specific question. Why didn't the Secretary of State notify state aid in June after the Act had been passed by the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u386	Just for the sake of clarity: notifications are made in the case of technical measures, state aid is notified. That's what got mixed up here last week. There's a difference between those two. Official notification of state aid is usually only made when you already have agreement with the Commission. You're gonna talk the moment you have a draft bill. That's exactly what we've done. Moreover, experience has shown that the European Commission often only looks at it in full depth when it comes to a final legislative proposal. That has also been demonstrated in this case. In fact, the Commission's strong opinion came only in September, when the final legislative proposal was also in the Chamber, when we contacted the Commission in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u387	I hear that the Secretary of State keeps saying, but there are simply directives, including those of the Foreign Office, about how such things should be done. What happened here doesn't match that. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State once again to explain clearly to me exactly what that is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u388	You do notification for technical measures. This bill must also be notified. So that's what you do when you have a final bill. This is different from the discussions on state aid. For this, you have to report to the European Commission. Regular is that you start as soon as you have a draft legislative proposal, because the European Commission simply needs the text of a legislative proposal to be able to assess it. That's the way the process always goes. We sent our lawyers just as soon as we could when the bill was accepted by the Council of Ministers. These consultations always start at a technical level, i.e. with the Commission's experts. The Commission also calls for discussions to begin at that level, from experts to experts. That's when the conversations started. After the summer, in mid-September, that led to the Commission's attitude, which we have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u389	I would like to have a further explanation of the Sixth Action Programme. We are now running into Brussels and the rules on water quality. I understand it all, but we also know that the water quality is not satisfactory in a few places in the Netherlands. We also know that there are places where water quality does not meet, but where agriculture really is not the main culprit. Other factors play a role there. The Secretary of State said very quickly: that is what we are going to discuss in the Sixth Action Programme. That was actually a little too fast for me. I think agriculture is just doing very well in the Netherlands. We see that falling line everywhere. Will the Secretary of State convince the European Commission that we are on the right track and that water quality is improving? I'd like to get some more information about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u390	I am convinced that we can convince the Commission that we are on the right track, but that does not mean that we are already there. We do not meet the standards that have been set in all places. The European Commission is therefore very critical of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u391	Yes, the European Commission is very critical of that. But I indicated that other factors also play a role in water quality. Now the agricultural sector is asked to make a sacrifice to put water quality in order, while in a number of situations it is really not the only cause. In many places in our country the water quality is just good. It just doesn't feel right that all farmers throughout the Netherlands are now faced with drastic measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u392	These measures have everything to do with the phosphate production ceiling, which is a precondition for the derogation. Mr Dijkgraaf has also said a few times in debates that it feels very unfair because it has to be about water quality. I agree with the content. That is what we are going to talk about as far as I am concerned. It is up to the Chamber to decide whether it wants to talk about this, but before Christmas I will give the Chamber all the information on the sixth action programme it needs. Then the Chamber will have every opportunity to schedule a discussion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u393	The Secretary of State replied that there was a letter from his predecessor, Secretary of State Dijksma. If I'm not mistaken, this Secretary of State has been on for a year now. I just want an update on the implementation of my adopted motion on the extraction of phosphates. I think we can solve a lot of that. If that motion had been adopted years ago, we would not have had this problem at all. We have the problem of phosphates being seen as something bad, whereas they must be seen as something valuable. We need to speed that up. As long as we are in this terrible European Union, we may be able to convince Brussels that these ceilings are going down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u394	I understand very well what Mr Graus is saying. He's got a good point when he says phosphate is basically something valuable. Phosphate is scarce, so reuse is wise. That's what my predecessor's letter was about. The policy we are pursuing is also aimed at fully processing phosphate produced in the Netherlands but which cannot be placed on Dutch agricultural land. That is the system of compulsory manure treatment. The extraction of phosphate can also be considered. The problem is that the current agreements with the European Commission see phosphate production and do not go beyond what you do with it, except land placement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u395	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u396	I come to the bill on ground-based growth. This bill implements the Reuten and Others motion, which was adopted unanimously in the Upper House at the end of 2014. It asked for the rules of the AMvB to be laid down in the law. That's what this bill does. In addition, I take the opportunity to remove some undesirable effects through two notes of amendment. That's exactly what I need to say. On the first letter of amendment, I would like to point out that we will explain a situation in which a dairy farm temporarily had an extraordinary amount of land in 2014, i.e. phosphate space, through participation in public nature development projects, in such a way that it may also be a situation in which a dairy farmer temporarily had extra land because on his land work was carried out for nature development on nearby land for which he had temporary replacement land in use. It is important to give that explanation of the bill. That makes it part of the legal history. A number of amendments have been tabled to this law. I believe that this will automatically bring me to the questions that have been asked. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 14, by Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber on feed-fertiliser contracts. This amendment provides that feed-fertiliser agreements may be included in the determination of the dairy phosphate surplus on the holding. This would allow more dairy farms to comply with land-based rules without acquiring land themselves. The underlying idea is to close the regional cycle. I am very positive about that idea, but I do think it is very important that the amendment also allows this room to examine whether the amendment does not substantially undermine the impact of the law on land-based growth in dairy farming and whether it is feasible. I'm worried about that. The amendment gives the scope to do the research and to include the impact on the legislative proposal on ground-based growth. Having said that, I can leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u397	Do I understand correctly from the Secretary of State that he is going to investigate first whether this does not open a back door to grow without having ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u398	I'd rather say it in my own words, so it's clear. The amendment states that rules are laid down for General Measure of Governance. The explanatory statement makes it clear that there is a need to examine feasibility. That seems essential to me, because I am concerned that it is really feasible. In addition, consideration should be given to the impact of the deduction of feed-fertilisation agreements on the dairy phosphate surplus and to the consequences for the system of responsible and land-based growth dairy farming. The essence of the system of land-based growth is, of course, that you have to be able to justify your growth with land. The amendment aims to allow land to be counted and therefore to be regarded as 'accountable with land' if you have permanent contracts with someone in your immediate vicinity and therefore there is actually some sort of symbiosis between a farmer and a dairy farmer. We need to look very closely at the consequences of this. Of course, it is not intended to undermine the system of land-based growth and therefore to grow everywhere without sufficient land.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u399	I see that you want to respond to this, Mrs Koşer Kaya, but 33 amendments have been tabled and I am not going to allow any interruptions. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. He was working on a part of the bill...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u400	From the bill on ground-based growth, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u401	I would suggest that you finish this part. After that, the Chamber will have the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u402	I'm making an order proposal. Well, at least let's get this over with, 'cause otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u403	No, because if I allow it, I must also allow others to interrupt every amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u404	But this piece is embroidering on it and it's sticking now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u405	Can the Secretary of State say how much time it takes for this point to be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u406	There is an interruption at this point. You mean the rest of the block? There are three further amendments, but I think I can deal with them briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u407	Why don't you finish that first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u408	The Dijkgraaf amendment in part No. 15 is about lowering fines. We have discussed this before. In a letter following a motion by Mr Dijkgraaf, I indicated that the General Administrative Law Act already provides for the possibility of reducing fines. I have also indicated what the criteria are for this. I have instructed RVO.nl to carry out the system of fines permanently critically and to consider the special circumstances in which infringements are committed even more carefully when determining the highest of the fine. The Audit Service Rijk assesses the implementation practice of RVO.nl on these aspects. I will inform the Chamber of the results of this. If that is the case, I will, on the basis of that outcome, adjust the implementation of the penalty policy. Capturing circumstances that justify a lower fine in an AMvB makes future customization incredibly difficult. That is why I reject this amendment. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 17 the limits that are in the law, which were also in the AMvB, on how much percent of the extra-produced manure you have to process and how much you have to place on the ground, are actually adjusted. This will disrupt the balance in the legislative proposal. That is why I do not recommend that amendment. The same applies to the Van Gerven amendment to item No. 18, because it actually does the same thing, but to an even greater extent. I therefore also advise against that amendment. I believe that I have also answered the questions that have been asked about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u409	Mrs Koşer Kaya had another supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u410	So if you have a contract with your farming neighbor, let me just put it this way, and you want to grow and your own land isn't enough for that, then you can't say: yes, but, I have a manure-feed contract with my neighbor, so I can grow, because I can put my manure out there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u411	That's exactly what the investigation is looking at. If you have a sustainable agreement with a company in the region where you take food and where you take manure, then this amendment says that you should be able to count that land on your land. This should therefore help to assess land-based growth. However, we will have to look at the consequences of this on the system of land-based growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u412	I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State on the consistency of his judgments. The previous motions on fines have also been discouraged. By the way, they were both accepted. This amendment has also been dissuaded. We're just gonna do it democratically and see what the Chamber thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u413	That's how it always works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u414	I'd like to cut up my questions. I shall start with the feed-fertiliser amendment, the amendment to item No. 14. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP that this should not lead to groundless growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u415	That can't lead to groundless growth anyway, because the law is not called the Law for nothing ground-bound growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u416	So, if the amendment on the feed-fertiliser contract is adopted, then the State Secretary leaves the opinion to the Chamber of Commerce, which can never lead to groundless growth. I'll see about that. There is still research to be done; when can we expect the results?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u417	I think we're gonna need a little time to do that. We are trying to do so as soon as possible so that the House can discuss it next autumn. I'm trying to make an assessment of how fast I think it should be possible. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, precisely because the amendment talks about that investigation. The amendment also contains a suspension procedure, allowing the Chamber to see whether its impact is also what the Chamber is aiming at when it adopts this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u418	In the case of the amendments to Parts Nos. 17 and 18, I'd like to mention the legal number. We are dealing with two laws, and that is clear. These amendments concern proposal No. 34295. The Secretary of State advises these amendments, but is there really no brake on intensification in the cabinet's proposal? Even if there is a significant overrun and if you are more intense than ground-bound, you can still produce more intensively. Surely that can never be the intention if the starting point is ground bound?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u419	This law makes it impossible for non-ground holdings, at least holdings with more than 20 kilograms per hectare of surplus, to intensify further. The law guarantees that these companies will have to expand if they want to grow. They then have to account for part of the extra manure with soil and therefore have to buy land for it. The law therefore does not allow for further intensification without this amendment. Here it's just about converting the AMvB into the law. In the AMvB, the boundaries are as they are in the bill. With this amendment, Mr Van Gerven is actually trying to repeat the previous discussion and to bring the boundaries as they are now in the AMvB back into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u420	Mr. Geurts!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u421	We're treating that law now. In the case of amendment, you can tighten up the standards. I dispute the Secretary of State's conclusion that he is converting into the law of that AMvB and the raffle that prevents intensification. No, you have to buy part of the land, but you can also process part of it through manure. Even if you're well over the ground bonding standard, you can still get started with manure processing. However, we believe that it is only by acquiring land that you should create extra space if you are far beyond it. It makes sense to follow that path, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u422	No, it is clear that Mr Van Gerven feels the same way. The AMvB contains a balance sheet that is also included in this bill. He wants a different balance, but I advise against it. It is further up to the Chamber what it does with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u423	Mr. Geurts!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u424	I would like to say a few words about the amendment to item No. 14, which bears my name. The Secretary of State indicated that this would happen in the autumn of next year, while the amendment made it very clear that the government should report on the implementation of the manure agreement in time for the entry into force of the phosphate rights system. This means that it must enter into force on 1 January 2018. That is what we are trying to do with this amendment. Then autumn 2017 is a bit precarious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u425	If Mr Geurts wants us to do the research he is talking about properly in the explanatory statement, we certainly need it until the summer. Let me agree that I am doing my utmost to ensure that the Chamber has the results for Princess Day. It will then be able to assess them in the autumn and also to discuss a possible AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u426	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u427	Mr. Chairman. We have already had a major debate on the Phosphate Act, in which many views have been exchanged and many questions have been answered. With your permission, I shall confine myself to answering the questions that have been asked on this subject and assessing the amendments that have been tabled. Mr Dijkgraaf asked about the sector ceiling and said that this is not the right starting point for this law, because other sectors also exceed. The derogation ceiling is about total phosphate production, he is right. We're gonna get us under there. One of the ways in which we do this is through the sector ceiling. We use the phosphate rights system to ensure that we do not exceed the total national ceiling. Several groups have asked questions about the skimming rate, the rate of reduction in transfer and the criteria of the phosphate bank. The generic rate of skimming shall be calculated on the basis, inter alia, of livestock size on 2 July 2015. I stress that 2 July 2015 is the target date, remains and will always be. The extent of the provision for cases of trouble, the relief of land-based businesses and the amendments adopted by the Chamber during this procedure also affect the generic rate of skimming, so I cannot calculate that at this time. The rate of skimming on transfer is 10. Mr Grashoff asked why it was 10%. It is intended to fill the phosphate bank, but it has been established that, on the one hand, there is still sufficient opportunity to promote desired development, so it must yield enough. On the other hand, it should not be an excessive obstacle to the development of individual companies. The skimming in transfer is also there to prevent speculation. A percentage of 10 also has a size with which you can do that. The criteria for the phosphate bank come with General Measure of Management. There are also amendments on this subject, but I will come to that later. This offers some flexibility to fill in the criteria. The Chamber shall be informed thereof. However, it is essential that these criteria go beyond EU standards for compatibility with the State aid frameworks. Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Gerven asked whether they could not do without marketable rights. I have just told Mr Grashoff why I find that undesirable. We have also been asked if we can arrange it for 2017 without being negotiable. That's not legally an option. The scheme would therefore be very vulnerable. On a large scale, promising claims can be expected, as from 2 July 2015 entrepreneurs have been announced that a system of marketable rights would be introduced, so that is what they have been able to take into account. If you deviate from that at this time, a month before the introduction, that is impossible for entrepreneurs to foresee, so that is not legally sustainable. That could be challenged in court, and most likely successfully. Mr Dijkgraaf and Mrs Dik-Faber have asked whether this generic skimming is sustainable because no one EP test has yet been carried out; this is a review of the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 1, which deals with property rights. This 1 EP test must be carried out when drawing up the General Measure of Governance. Of course, I will ensure that this General Measure is in line with the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights. Then I perform the 1 EP-key, but I also focus the AMvB on that of course. Mr Dijkgraaf has asked whether it would not be good to convert pig rights to phosphate rights, and suggestions have also been made by others. The bill contains a provision allowing for the exchange of rights. There was also an amendment tabled by Members of this Chamber. I have always said: if it is considered desirable by the sectors, this provision can be used as far as I am concerned and then these rights could be transposed, but so far the sectors do not consider it desirable. Mrs Ouwehand had the impression that the Council of State and the state attorney cut the time limit. That's incorrect. On the contrary, both have said that the target date of 2 July 2015 is sustainable. Mrs Lodder asked about the assessment made by Security and Justice at her request. This clearly shows that the reference date is in any case legally sustainable. Mr Van Gerven asked a question about intensive farms that bought cows after the abolition of the milk quota. They come out well, if I may sum it up, because they are allowed to keep more animals than extensive farms that have not bought cows. This was one of the major issues for me when drafting this bill and when making the choices for my letter received by the Chamber on 3 March. We have also discussed this in the main debate. What I find most difficult to digest is that, legally speaking, we have no position to distinguish between growthers and non-growthers. I myself would have liked us to be able to target the growers. This was not legally sustainable because all this growth was legal. Entrepreneurs were therefore allowed to assume that their business could grow. After On 2 July 2015, Secretary of State Dijksma sent the letter to this Chamber and said that there would be a system of marketable phosphate rights. However, all growth that is still taking place after 2 July 2015 is at the expense and risk of the individual dairy farmer. All growth that took place after this date is therefore not translated into rights. Unfortunately, it was not possible to distinguish between companies which have and have not grown before that date in terms of growth. It is harsh, as I say here too, because it means that non-growers pay part of the bill of the total excess of the phosphate production ceiling, even though they have in fact contributed little to it. Legally, however, this is the only way to spread the pain among all companies. Mrs Lodder asked how to clarify the problems as quickly as possible and what route to take. The phosphate duties shall be introduced on the basis of the data for 2015. The most important data have already been submitted by the RVO to companies. In fact, therefore, they already have clarity about the data on the basis of which the allocation of phosphate rights is to be determined. I will make every effort to inform companies as well as possible in the run-up to 2018. I will also make it clear where companies that want to claim the bottleneck provision included in the legislative proposal can go. Mrs Ouwehand said that the bottleneck is not enough. Mrs Lodders asked about its sustainability and, in my opinion, about it. She did so in response to the advice of the Ministry of Security and Justice. A limited provision has been deliberately chosen as each bottleneck has to be met by increasing the total amount of phosphate duty being distributed and the generic skimming has to be increased to keep production below the ceiling. That is why there is a small problem regulation. This was tested again by the Ministry of Security and Justice. The Court also received that opinion. The Ministry has confirmed that, in view of the current circumstances, the emergency provision is satisfactory and legally sustainable. Mr Van Gerven gave some examples of biofarmers and asked what I could do for these people. I shall have the cases put forward by Mr Van Gerven examined. I'll give you a profit warning. An amendment has been tabled on this subject, but the current legislative proposal simply shuts down the bottleneck provision. If you are not covered, then you are not covered and then there are no possibilities to benefit from more phosphate rights. Mr Dijkgraaf asked another question about the spreading of young cattle. He said that this should actually be attributed to phosphate production. I think that's what Mrs Dik-Faber was asking for. Entrepreneurs can arrange that among themselves. The entrepreneur who gets rights for damaged animals can transfer those rights to the owner of the animals. Often the animals spend six months with the other. This can be agreed between us. The bill doesn't stand in the way of that. Mrs Ouwehand pointed out that the legislative proposal was still not actually adopted on the basis of the State aid frameworks, because the legislative proposal had to go beyond the EU standard, which the committee considered to be. The legislative proposal goes beyond the ceiling in the derogating decision. The allocation of rights takes place through the phosphate bank. The letter of amendment specifies that the allocation of rights through the phosphate bank should go beyond European environmental requirements. We are therefore achieving more ambitious objectives along this path than the objectives that the EU is demanding of us. I do not see the problems that Mrs Ouwehand envisages in this respect. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked whether a company could be converted into a legal person, so that one could avoid skimming when transferring. That's possible, but there's no way of knowing whether that's happening. Converting an ordinary business, often a one-man business or a vof, into another legal entity, for example, could be based on all kinds of other considerations, including financial considerations, which could weigh more heavily. So I can't say if companies are pre-sorting on that. They may have many other reasons to opt for a certain legal form. Mr Van Gerven asked about the predicted total value of all phosphate rights. It's 7 or 8 billion. What the value actually becomes depends on the market. That will be a question of supply and demand. Undoubtedly, there will be relatively high demand in the beginning, but it is certain that the total value is a theoretical amount. The rights will only be given value for companies selling their rights. For all other companies, it is only the right to be able to produce and thus run a business. Mrs Dik-Faber asked how I would like to prevent farmers from waiting for years for a favourable price for phosphate rights. How, or when, farmers decide to transfer their rights to someone else is up to those farmers themselves. Those are individual decisions that I can't steer in any way. There is no doubt that farmers will keep an eye on price formation. Mrs Dik-Faber said that many other parties, such as intermediaries, are likely to benefit. One can work with intermediaries, but it doesn't have to. It is up to entrepreneurs themselves to make that decision. The skimming in transfer prevents us from speculating. For every transfer, 10% of the rights must be surrendered. It is therefore necessary to make a great deal of money on the trade in phosphate rights if we are to benefit from it. That way, a barrier has been created. Mr Van Gerven asked whether there were no barriers to future regulation. That is not the case. The arrival of phosphate rights is not necessarily a terminal. It's one of the rules that businesses have to deal with. I refer to the pig and poultry sectors, which have long had production rights. The regulatory framework has subsequently been strengthened in other areas. For this sector, too, the manure processing obligation was introduced after production rights had already been in place. The government can do that without being liable for damages. This concern was raised by Mr Van Gerven. He asked if I could explain this in a letter, but I hope that I gave him sufficient information with this answer. Mrs Ouwehand asked whether the definition of land-boundness is correct, since the use of land by an intensive farmer counts to a leliteler. She was concerned about the consequences for biofarmers. The land used in the holding on 15 May of the year in question shall be used to determine the soil density of a holding. This is a simple and effective way of determining soil density, not only in the context of manure, but also in the context of the common agricultural policy. It prevents a piece of land from being abandoned by two farmers in one year. I wouldn't trade that in for a more practical system. Mrs Ouwehand and others referred to organic farming. There are organic farmers who are not land-bound. There aren't many of them, but they're there. That is just what the rules apply to all non-ground farmers. So if you have a biological business and are not ground-bound, you produce a surplus of manure, just like usual farms, and that surplus has to be disposed of elsewhere. These farms also contribute to the phosphate production of dairy farming as a whole. They cannot therefore be excluded from the shrinkage either. For land-based farmers, by far the largest part, the provision in the legislative proposal is that they are kept as safe as possible. I didn't fill in the bill to what extent, because I thought that should be discussed in the Chamber. The current bill offers the opportunity to spare these farmers to the maximum of the latent space. There is an amendment tabled by the House of Commons which I shall come up with in a moment to go a step further. Mr Graus asked how it was possible that a biofarmer should not offer manure to individuals. Cattle farmers may dispose of up to 250 kilos of phosphate to private individuals. It is therefore not prohibited, but there is a limitation, a maximum quantity. Mr Van Gerven said that the intensification of dairy farming is detrimental to pig farming. He asked how many more pig farmers were going to pay for manure disposal. The sale price for manure depends on several factors, including the supply and growth of manure production. Manure from dairy farming can indeed have a price-raising effect on manure from pig farming. I cannot answer the question as to whether or to what extent this is the case, because I do not have any data on it. Mr Grashoff had previously asked for figures which I could not give him at the time. In the meantime, I've sent it to him. I think I sent him exactly the numbers he asked for. If that is not the case, it is annoying, but I have literally answered Mr Grashoff's question. I think those were the questions that were asked. Soon I will come to a number of questions relating to amendments. These will naturally be dealt with in the discussion of the relevant amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u428	At times like this, even now, as I feared, the Secretary of State is going to talk a little faster. He answered 30 questions in 15 minutes. I can now intervene on one point; that is all the President does not allow. In the meantime, I'd like to know exactly what they're like from four or five things. This is exactly the process that was predicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u429	I do object to that, Mr Grashoff. The Chamber used five and a half hours for the first time; five and a half hours! Then I think it is fair that the questions raised by the Chamber in those five and a half hours are answered neatly and carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u430	No, Mr. Chairman, they are not answered neatly and carefully. The Secretary of State is making an attempt, but in the debate you could take a step further to find out exactly what it is like. That is not going to work now, because a majority of the House is anxious to get rid of it. I don't blame you as chairman, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u431	There's nothing going on, because you've really done most of the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u432	Mr President, I do not agree. Nor do I agree with the fact that I am being called to order here. I warned about this from the start, from the beginning of the evening and halfway through the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u433	You didn't get a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u434	That's right. That is why I am not blaming you, but I am blaming my fellow Members for having to do it this way. A political starting point has been chosen. Apparently, with the majority of the groups, there's just a deal about how they want to get out. That's all fine. We're here to listen to a wonderful play tonight, but I'd like us to handle a law carefully. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u435	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u436	At the beginning of his series of replies, the Secretary of State ignored the possibility of introducing a legally binding system of rights without marketability in 2017. This would not be legally possible because the Secretary of State's predecessor had sent a letter on 2 July 2015 stating that there would be a system of negotiable rights. Actually, you'll end up in a very wonderful circle. This would mean that where the Dutch State has to intervene and lay down rules based on its obligations under the European rules and wrote in the letter 'we are going to solve it in way A', which the European Union says 'can and should not do so', there could no longer be any regulation at all. After all, there was only one option mentioned in the letter of 2 July, whereas regulation would be mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u437	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u438	It can't be both. It's not two and one. That legal reasoning simply doesn't go into my head. Certainly not if it would be a proposal to temporarily choose a forerunner in 2017 and then introduce a not wanted by me, but apparently desired by the State Secretary from 2018, which would allow him to comply with the 2015 letter. He does it, he introduces a system, but he has to make an intermediate step. Can the Secretary of State make one more attempt to convince me that this was an impassable road?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u439	That has everything to do with Article 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which we have just talked about. You must also check such regulations. As soon as you say, we're giving up production rights, and we're robbing them, regulate your property. This can be done on the basis of the European Treaty, but we have always announced to the companies that they will be able to buy additional rights at the time when, for example, they have a herd that is much larger than the amount of rights they receive. They can then buy rights. We have always announced this: on 2 July 2015, on 3 March this year and in the bill that went to the Chamber in September. If you announce that for a year and a half and say at the last minute, "you know what we're doing, we won't make it negotiable in 2017 anyway." Even if you only do it for 2017.... you actually take away the possibility at the last minute of something they could have been counting on: to make money for their accumulated property by buying additional phosphate rights. That is simply not legally sustainable. The first one to go to court and say "I do not think this is acceptable because I could not have foreseen this and I could not have taken that into account at this time," is right. That's why it's not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u440	This has a high level of "where there is no will, there is no way." The point is that the government was obliged to lay down rules and that it apparently now follows the reasoning that it has no possibility of imposing those rules for 2017. It just doesn't work for me. The Secretary of State may then try to explain that again, but this is exactly the point that annoys me. In the end, the flight is chosen in the direction of a sectoral agreement, which may then be linked to a general declaration. This would still be a rule, without the existence of marketable phosphate rights. Even the total postponement of the law, in the State Secretary's reasoning, could lead to claims, as the expectation had been raised that there would be marketable rights that would not exist as of 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u441	The latter is not the case. What matters is that you regulate property with the law. We have attached some conditions to this, which we have always announced. Companies must be able to assume that. That's exactly why it can't be done. Mr Grashoff pretends that it is a matter of will. No, it's not a matter of will. In theory, we could write in the bill what Mr Grashoff says. But, it's December 2nd now, I think it'll be off the table in a month. Then the first farmer goes to court and says: I find this unreasonable, because I have not been able to prepare for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u442	I do have several questions that have not been answered. And I would like to respond to a number of points. Is there room for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u443	If there are any questions left, you may ask them again. You've put it into your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u444	I'd like to speak to you first. The Secretary of State came back to my point that the Council of State and the state attorney have cut off the reasoning about the benchmarks. The Secretary of State is talking about 2015. I was talking about the letter sent by Secretary of State Dijksma in 2013. It has said: this is an announcement; it is not going to happen that the farmers will expand and be rewarded for it. It'll happen now. My question was: why hasn't there been a legal check on that? My second question concerns the problem regulation. The Secretary of State says it's limited. Is there a calculation made of the buyout amounts that need to be made? Did you think about that? The questions that have remained are about the transport trail. I have asked the Secretary of State to come forward with a concrete prognosis and results from recent years. I asked him about the disappearance of grassland. That would be monitored, so he must have figures of that. We want to know what's going on with that. And most importantly, I asked him to respond to the plan of the organic farmers, the animal welfare organisations and the environmental organisations that have put forward an alternative to the sector plan. I really want us to talk about this seriously in the debate. I am still working on an amendment to that effect. That must be submitted to the Chamber. The Secretary of State really needs to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u445	The last two questions raised by Mrs Ouwehand relate to the 2017 package. I have said that I will deal with this as a fourth block. So that's what I'm going to come back to at that moment. Mrs Ouwehand also asked a question about the reference date. The only reference date we use is the date of 2 July 2015. She refers to the fact that Secretary of State Dijksma would have said that December 2013 would be a reference date or reference date. In December 2013, Secretary of State Dijksma only said that if there was a breach of the phosphate ceiling, production-limiting measures would be on the table. I don't recognize that she said anywhere that that would be a reference date. Indeed, the letter of 2 July 2015 clearly states that there will be a system of phosphate rights, which will be based on the size of the livestock at that time. It clearly states that the subsequent growth is at the expense and risk of the dairy farmer. So that's the reference date as she used it. Mrs Ouwehand has asked another question about permanent grassland. Under the greening requirement of the common agricultural policy, the area of grassland in the Netherlands should not decrease by more than 5% at national level compared to the total agricultural area. Most grassland that is ploughed in the Netherlands is then sown again with grass. This is without prejudice to the area requirement. At present, therefore, the maximum reduction of 5% is not at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u446	I would like to see that specified. I asked the Secretary of State, "Where are we now?" At the end of 2013 we discussed this in the Chamber. At that time, the cabinet said that it would be properly monitored. That was three years ago. I assume that figures are now available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u447	I can tell you what I just said. I can repeat it again. That doesn't help us much. If Mrs Ouwehand really has specific questions about this, and I think they are separate from this legislative proposal, then I think it would be wise for her to put it in writing. Then she will receive a reply in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u448	The question is, and I asked it in the first term: where are we now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u449	Who hasn't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u450	So the question is already with the Secretary of State. If it's right, there would be monitoring for maintaining that grassland. What's the status? How are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u451	I have heard it, but my suggestion to Mrs Ouwehand is to put that question in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u452	Mr. Chairman. I would like to respond briefly to what Mr Grashoff said. I think the debate is going very well. I also think the Secretary of State is a worthy answer. I don't always agree with it, and it doesn't always work out for me. I also think that there is a good atmosphere among Members of Parliament and even in the public gallery. Despite the emotion, it stays calm. I do not understand what was said and I do not want to conform to it either. In fact, I think you are the best chairman so far. That might be nice to say, too. I've seen four of them; one but very briefly. But I really think you're the best President of the Chamber so far, the best I've ever seen. Madam President, there is something else I would like to clarify. I have said that the organic farmers I have spoken to this afternoon are not allowed to sell bags of manure, or those pellets that they make of it, in a small shop in a village or town. Now the Secretary of State says that this can be done up to a certain number of grams. Point one: that is, of course, ridiculous. Because why is that? There are a lot of people who want organic manure. So why is that and what can the Secretary of State do so that these people can sell unlimited manure to individuals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u453	I hope that Mr Graus will forgive me for being very prepared for all the ins and outs of the phosphate rights system, but not exactly for the delivery of manure grains by biofarmers to private individuals. I would like to explore this further for him, but I must do so in a different way than in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u454	It may sound like micromanagement in such an important debate, but those two guys asked me that and I said, "I'll leave it with the Secretary of State." 'Cause I didn't know either. I do think we should find out, because there are more farmers who are affected by it. Why don't you just let the peasants deliver these little grains indefinitely? Why does it have to have a ceiling on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u455	I'd be happy to find out for you anyway, if only out of my own curiosity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u456	I would like to come back to the troubles. The Secretary of State says that all farmers have a problem with the reference; let me describe it in this way. That is not the case; that is why it is a problem. There are a number of situations where farmers still do not have that clarity. My question to the Secretary of State is to serve it as soon as possible. The Secretary of State then pointed the bottlenecks towards 1 January 2018. I think that is a very long time, because it means that they are in uncertainty for another year. Is it not possible to open a window at the National Entrepreneurship Agency for the Netherlands, RVO, where these people can already contact with their questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u457	"Already" is of course too early, because this bill has to pass the Upper House. When the law is final and it is also clear that it will enter into force definitively on 1 January 2018, we will of course communicate about the entry into force of the law. That seems to me the right time to inform people about what the procedure will look like if they think they are eligible for the emergency provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u458	The First Chamber, of course, is obviously part of the legislative process. I hope that this will be completed at the beginning of next year and that we will not wait until the end of the year. I do think it is right to start providing information on the RVO site so that people can prepare themselves for it. On the first part of my question I would also like to receive a response: when will the specific cases get their information on the date of 2 July 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u459	I don't quite understand this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u460	I started with this: there are still a number of companies that I think are the ones that have not yet received their information on 2 July 2015, the phosphate reference. They have received a blank sheet. There's no information on it. That must be done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u461	Yes. Allow me to return to that at the end of the discussion of the amendments, so that I can explain exactly what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u462	A significant percentage of the cases were farmers who had cut their cattle off at the time of the survey. I believe that 20% of farmers had to do with that. The Secretary of State just as quickly indicated that the law does not hinder this, but I went further into it and understood that some farmers want to regulate this among themselves and certainly also ground-breaking organisations, of which phosphate rights are not really core business at all. It must have a hook in the law to prevent skimming during that transfer, which must also be registered. I'm just gonna use my interruption to point out that there's gonna be an amendment. I hope that will be submitted shortly. If that does not work, we may get a later written appreciation of it. What the Secretary of State said was just too fast. I hope he will take a constructive look at the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u463	That is what I do according to all the amendments, and certainly also to this amendment. I am happy to see which amendment Mrs Dik-Faber will be able to accept.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u464	The Secretary of State said there could be a difference between groundboundness and biological. Is it also the intention of the Secretary of State that if the Chamber decides to accept the amendment tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Koșer Kaya on land-related issues, this will also apply to all organic farmers? Is that how it's gonna get its hands on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u465	I come to the amendments, but amendments that see land-based farmers seeing land-based farmers and not land-based farmers when they are organic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u466	Oh, yes, but the majority of the Chamber does. In the past, it has also adopted motions for resolutions on this subject, at least on the subject of intent. Let's be clear about that. How can we solve that? This is not a very large number of companies compared to the total. I would just like to say that where there is a will, there is a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u467	I shall now turn to all the amendments. An amendment has been tabled to almost every part of the law, so if Mr Van Gerven still has a specific amendment, I can respond to that. If he submits this after this debate, I may be able to respond in writing, before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u468	You now come to the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u469	I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 15 by Mr Dijkgraaf. He wants a heavy suspension procedure on the AMvB for determining the generic discount. I cannot calculate that percentage before 1 July next. The period thereafter is necessary to complete the procedure of the AMvB. So a front suspension procedure doesn't fit into that time frame. In addition, if you opt for a heavy suspension procedure, you will allow a very small part of the Chamber to force the government to regulate this in a law. This makes it impossible to apply the generic discount rate on 1 January 2018. I must therefore strongly advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 51 by Mrs Koșer Kaya is about a heavy veil on the Arrangement exemptions and phosphate bank. I am happy to discuss with the Chamber the details of the conditions and criteria for granting exemptions by the phosphate bank, but a heavy veil on a ministerial arrangement is not only very unusual, but also allows a very limited part of the Chamber to enforce that the criteria should be laid down by law. Any change to the criteria must then be implemented by law. That's inflexible. That is why I do not recommend that amendment. It could perhaps be proposed in a different way, making it manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u470	Mrs Koşer Kaya, you have tabled other amendments, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u471	That's right. This one I will amend according to the saying. I just wanted to say that. That helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u472	I come to speak on the amendment to item No. 26 by Mr Grashoff. Can the phosphate ceiling be reduced in two instalments in 2017? From the announcement of the system, it has been indicated that phosphate rights will become negotiable from the moment the system enters into force. That is what Mr Grashoff is deleting with his amendment. We have already discussed at length that this is not foreseeable for entrepreneurs and I must therefore strongly advise against this amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 28 of Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Geurts. Sustainability and animal welfare should not be a criterion for the allocation of rights through the phosphate bank. This is also true because, in the main debate, the Chamber expressed the wish to include, for example, grazing as a criterion for the allocation of rights from the phosphate bank. Because grazing is not a criterion that we include one-two-three in the legal text, I have made it "promoting sustainability and animal welfare'. I see in the explanatory text of the amendment that the proposers explicitly want to give the opportunity to encourage grazing. They link this to the promotion of ground-boundness. Now groundboundness and pasture don't always have to be the same. Groundboundness is about placing manure, but does not always mean that the cows come out. It's a speciality, but I think we can link it to that. If you say that there must be room for grazing, for example as a criterion for the allocation of rights from the phosphate bank, then I can leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 30 on the date of 2 July, it is intended to give dairy farmers the option of choosing the average for the period 1 January to 2 July instead of 2 July. This will ensure that everyone will choose what is most advantageous for him or her and thus means that more phosphate rights will be allocated and that the generic discount will have to be increased. For example, dairy cows will also be counted twice. This leads to a higher generic discount. I do not think that is desirable, and for that reason I would advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 31 concerns the total relief of land-based holdings. I have always said, both in the letter of 3 March and here in the main debate we had in April, that I want to spare as much ground-based companies as possible. Land-based farms contribute to total phosphate production, but in fact do not contribute to the total phosphate surplus, because they can dispose of all manure on their own land. This is why the legislative proposal includes an article that allows land-based farms to keep up with their dairy phosphate space. I have always said that I think I should discuss again with the Chamber the extent to which this is happening. A motion for a resolution was tabled in the main debate which called for the total relief of land-based companies. This has consequences for the non-land-based companies. On the basis of the figures we are now familiar with, there is a need for a general reduction of about 2.5% for non-ground-based companies. That's the consequence. I believe that the Chamber should make a proper assessment of this. There is also a sub-amendment tabled by Mr Van Gerven. I will come to that in detail later. This ensures that the boundary between ground-based and non-ground-based is not as tight as the result of this amendment alone. That would mean that you would be completely spared if you produced just 1 kilo less phosphate than the ground density standard, but that you would be completely reduced if you produced just 1 kilo more. Mr Van Gerven. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Van Gerven for his excellent report. 55 solves this problem. If the Chamber decides to accept the combination of this amendment and the sub-amendment, I can welcome it. It is up to the Court to decide whether or not it wishes to give full relief to land-based companies. I have always said that this is in line with my commitment in this area. I would therefore like to leave this amendment to the House. I come to the amendment to item No. 32 by Mr Grashoff. This is very similar to Mr Van Gerven's sub-amendment, if it is not true that the latter is a little bit more technical. The Van Gerven sub-amendment is based on 2015. That is the year we always refer to. However, Mr Grashoff's amendment is based on 2017, the previous year. The figures are not available for the time being. This means that companies will not know where they stand for the time being. I therefore prefer the sub-amendment tabled by Mr Van Gerven. In my opinion, this ultimately achieves exactly the same goal, but is a little bit more technically purer. That is why I would advise the House against this amendment and suggest that the sub-amendment should be adopted if it considers it desirable. Secondly, I come to the amendment on item No. 34 of Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber on the generic reduction of AMvB for poultry and pig farming. In this bill, I have included a hook to skim poultry and pig rights, as well as phosphate rights. This amendment removes the possibility of a generic reduction of poultry and pig rights, should one or both of the sectors exceed the production ceiling, which was the case last year, for example. I would like to make it clear to Members that this is the consequence. If this is deleted, this means the following. If there is a national overrun of the phosphate production ceiling, there is only one sector that can be reduced, namely dairy farming, even if it is not responsible for the overrun. In other words, if the overrun occurs elsewhere, in pig farming or in poultry farming, the only option is to cut down on dairy farming. I think the Court should take this into account. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. However, this is the consequence of this amendment. This is also why I included the hook in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u473	I'd like some clarification. In the debate with the Chamber, I asked the authors about this. They have said that, to take that example, the pig sector cannot be reduced because dairy farming exceeds the ceiling. Do I hear the Secretary of State say that the hook he actually wants is only intended for, for example, if the pig sector crosses the ceiling and thereby endangers the derogation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u474	What this does is to create the possibility of reducing the amount of rights for all three sectors for which there are rights. It is reasonable that you should only use this when that sector exceeds its own sector ceiling. There are separate sectoral ceilings. As soon as one sector exceeds its ceiling, the bill would allow you to cut short. The authors of the amendment say that they do not want that for pig rights and poultry rights. This means that the only discount option still in the law, which is on phosphate rights, is for dairy farming. I do not have any other instruments to deal with it if there is an overrun in pig farming or poultry farming that is not being resolved. By the way, it seems this year that both sectors simply resolve their excess over the past year, as you might expect. However, should there be an overrun that is not resolved, this amendment will not reduce the amount of duty in that sector. So there are just fewer instruments available to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u475	I conclude, then, that the proposers are wrongly suggesting it. I conclude that, as the law now states, it is intended that this instrument should only be used to roam the pig sector or poultry sector, for example, if you go through the ceiling. It is therefore not intended that this instrument should be used in cases where the ceiling has been exceeded elsewhere. Can the Secretary of State confirm that lecture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u476	All I can tell you is why I put it in the bill. I have put it in place to be able to apply a reduction in all three sectors by sector if there is reason to do so, namely when the sector ceiling is exceeded in a specific sector. It is, of course, up to the proposers to explain the amendment. I've only outlined what the consequence is if you take this out. But since this is really a new element of this bill and has been a lot of discussion about it before, I leave it to the Chamber to judge it. Members have to consider this issue themselves, but the choice has a consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u477	As far as the Acts are concerned, I would like to say once again that it is not the case that I would like to leave the account elsewhere. I intend to propose to my group that we support the amendment. Since these two sectors are not involved in the drafting of this law, I do not want to be surprised. So, as soon as that situation occurs in the future, we will be able to take that hook with a sweeping law or a short law. This seems to me to be a careful addition to the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u478	Proceed with your speech, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u479	That's perfectly clear. I come to the amendment to item No. 36 by Mr Geurts and Mrs Dik-Faber. It says: You may rent up to 30% of phosphate rights. The aim is to prevent "salon milkers." Companies are not obliged to indicate whether the transfer of phosphate rights to RVO results from sales or from leases, leases or leases. Only the transfer is recorded. The 10% skimming on transfer discourages the only leasing, rental or leasing of phosphate rights without using them themselves. I therefore do not think that such a regulation is necessary, and I do not recommend the amendment. The amendment in part No. 38 belongs to Mr Dijkgraaf. He is actually proposing to include an end date in the law, namely the year 2023. This offers the opportunity to write down taxes. I didn't choose that. I have also explained in the explanatory statement, and also in the explanatory statement, why I did not choose to do so. In my view, tax depreciation actually reduces the burden on the purchase of phosphate rights. I believe that this can have a price increase effect and that this will increase the price of phosphate rights. At the same time, you can say that tax depreciation can stimulate transfer. It is not certain what the effect of this is. The following, however, is perhaps more important to me and is why I did not choose it. This amendment really puts an end date in the law. If, therefore, phosphate rights cannot lapse by 2023, the law must be amended accordingly. It's not my preference to do it that way. We have also seen in the case of pig rights and poultry rights that the government or politics cannot always predict how long such rights are needed. Therefore, if the Court wants tax depreciation, it would be my preference to note that the rights by Royal Decree may lapse at a time to be determined. I prefer that to a fixed term in the law. Therefore, since there is a fixed deadline, I must advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u480	What if that hook came into the law? Does the Secretary of State intend to terminate phosphate rights by 2023 if they are no longer required?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u481	I think it is extremely risky at the moment to venture a prediction as to how long a phosphate production ceiling is in place and how long phosphate rights are needed to maintain that ceiling. I don't think it's a good idea to put a date on that right now. In a number of years' time, the govern ment may have to come back to that. We have seen this before in the case of pig rights and poultry rights. It has always been said that it will expire at some point. Eventually, we still have them today and there's still no idea that they're going to fall. I therefore believe that, as a ruler, you should be extremely careful to mention an end date when you are not sure in advance whether it is realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u482	Then there is no point in changing the amendment, because then there will still be no tax depreciation. The Secretary of State's argument is that it has a price uplifting effect. That can be gross, but net of course never. The value in the market can never increase net for the farmer by tax depreciation. The big advantage is that the value of the law only goes in a few years. Otherwise, it's going to take an infinite number of years. The price will therefore be guaranteed to be lower, there is no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u483	In this assessment, Mr Dijkgraaf assumes that the market is counting on phosphate rights to expire in 2023. That seems to me to be an extremely daring prediction at the moment. This also gives a kind of suggestion to the market, which is not based on a real assessment of how it will run in the coming years. Mr Dijkgraaf is right that a farmer who wants to buy phosphate rights naturally calculates what his net burden will be. The net costs are lower thanks to tax depreciation. You can also turn it around: so a farmer can afford a higher investment. That is why I am saying that it could lead to a price-raising effect. And yes, that is in the end mainly for the benefit of those who sell phosphate rights. It can therefore get more money for this thanks to tax support from the government. But that does mean that a farmer must acquire more funding and that it may be more difficult to purchase phosphate rights. That's the reason that's behind it. If Mr Dijkgraaf wants to arrange the tax depreciation per amendment, we can assist him technically to settle that without having to include a year in the law. I'd be happy to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u484	I suggest that you speed up the examination of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u485	Maybe for the record, I'd like to look forward to that. I always think it's fair to see what's possible until the end. I do not intend it for the time being, because my main effect is not tax depreciation. On that point, I can see the Secretary of State's net gross story. My main reason is simply to bring the price down because you only have a limited number of years. I do not want a structural system for an occasional problem of a number of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u486	That is the same reasoning that once said that pig rights and poultry rights would be temporary. They're still temporary, I'm just saying. In the amendment to item No. 39 Mr Dijkgraaf has ensured that there is no generic reduction in production rights, but that dairy farmers are limited in the percentage of phosphate rights that they are allowed to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u487	That is the amendment to item No. Forty-six.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u488	Okay, now that's the Amendment No. 46. I hope it has not changed to such an extent that my argument is no longer valid, but I do not suspect that. The amendment does not actually provide for the amount of phosphate duty to be brought into line with the phosphate production ceiling. That actually undermines what this law is intended to do, so I must strongly discourage the amendment. I come to the amendment tabled by Mr Geurts and Mrs Dik-Faber to item No. 40, a veil for the ministerial arrangement. That's about the KringloopWijzer. Why are we introducing a system of phosphate rights instead of animal rights? Because the cabinet wants dairy farmers to be able to control phosphate production on their farms. This amendment is in line with that. I also want dairy farmers who deal efficiently with phosphate to be rewarded with more space to undertake. This amendment regulates this and asks the Cabinet to do everything in its power to report to the Chamber. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I would like to say once again that this is going in the direction I am aiming for. I come to the amendment to item No. 48, on the exemption system of the phosphate bank. This amendment allocates skimmed phosphate rights to farmers and makes them freely negotiable again. However, the bill states that the phosphate bank grants exemptions which are not negotiable. The phosphate bank ensures that a situation goes beyond just securing the phosphate production ceiling is being worked on. That objective was explicitly included in the legislative proposal with the letter of amendment in order to respond to the concerns expressed by the European Commission. An exemption shall be granted on an individual basis, subject to conditions to be determined. Precisely in those conditions to be defined is the fact that you go beyond European standards. By opting for the re-issue of phosphate rights that are transferable, the link to those conditions cannot be made and the legislative proposal no longer meets the European Commission's State aid criteria. I must therefore strongly discourage the amendment. In the amendment to item No. 49, by Mr Geurts and Mrs Dik-Faber, states that up to 10% of phosphate rights can be transferred without skimming them. The aim is to give the dairy farmer a little more flexibility to align phosphate production by leasing with the number of phosphate rights on his holding at the end of a calendar year. To this end, the transfer of 10% of phosphate duties is exempted from skimming. This gives rise to structures where rights are transferred in sections. Moreover, it is unknown whether transfer results from sale, rental or lease. Moreover, the skimming is 10% and 10% of 10% means a skimming of 1%. The skimming can therefore be monitored for dairy farmers who use it. It does lead to less filling of the phosphate bank. I reject this amendment because of all these arguments. I come to the amendment to item No. 50. Mrs Lodders actually says that the legislative proposal should only enter into force if there is a real view of a derogation. Let me be clear: this bill is intended to meet the phosphate production ceiling, which is a condition for derogation. If we were not to have a derogation and therefore no longer have a phosphate production ceiling, it would not be obvious to work with a system of phosphate rights. To this end, the amendment provides for a preliminary procedure. The entry into force of the legislative proposal is conditional on the likelihood that the European Commission will grant a new derogation. My commitment is to ensure timely clarity on derogation. I would point out to the Chamber that the last time the derogation was granted was only in April 2014, when the period started on 1 January 2014. It is therefore not certain that we already have clarity about derogation from the phosphate rights system. Mrs Lodder's aim, as I read in the explanatory statement, is that at that time the cabinet makes it clear that there is a view of a new derogation. Having said that, I can leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u489	Again my call which I also made in my first term. This means that the Secretary of State must go to Brussels very quickly, so already. We'll get the package by the end of the year. I believe that we, the Netherlands, should set the agenda in Brussels when it comes to deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u490	We do everything on our side, I do everything on it, but it takes two to tango. It's not like I can force it when it's discussed. The most important thing is now the discussion with the European Commission on the next year's package and on the current derogation. This should also allow us to start the regular process of a new derogation. In Koşer Kaya's amendment to item No. 51 states that phosphate rights may only be transferred to land-based holdings. I understand the thrust of this proposal, namely the promotion of land-based farming in dairy farming, but that is precisely what we are dealing with today's proposal on land-based growth for dairy farming. I would not like to include any additional requirements in this bill, so I would advise against this amendment. The following amendment states that there is a heavy risk in the conversion of production rights and stipulates that it must not lead to the emission of more greenhouse gases. The legislative proposal already provides for this condition, because transposition should not lead to an increase in nitrogen compounds. The amendment lays down a heavy procedure for the AMvB in which the transposition is further regulated. As I have already pointed out in other amendments, I think that is too much of a barrier to the measure we are talking about. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u491	I have just lost the number of the amendment, but it is an amendment of my hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u492	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 52.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u493	Do I understand correctly from the Secretary of State that it is already legally guaranteed that the amount of greenhouse gases cannot increase in the transfer of rights or is only the heavy veil the bottleneck?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u494	Especially the front is the bottleneck. It already contains a provision stating that the transposition must take into account a number of substances relevant to the environment. I should like to make a specific observation as to whether this also concerns greenhouse gases. I think that Mr Van Gerven is also concerned with methane emissions. I have focused on, for example, ammonia emissions. The other nitrogen compounds were at least included in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u495	I shall, of course, look at that heavy veil, but perhaps the Secretary of State can confirm that in the second term or later. Of course, we are concerned that it is not possible for us to have an environmental degradation if we do not adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u496	I will come back to these greenhouse gases in the second term for a moment. The Dik-Faber amendment to item No. 53 is about a veil for the AMvB on the determination of the generic discount rate. I have in the amendment to item No. 6 already indicated that this does not fit in with the timetable needed to determine and implement that generic skimming in time. I therefore advise against the amendment. The amendment in part No. 55 is Mr Van de Gerven's sub-amendment. I have already said that I am in agreement with the amendment on item No. 31 can embrace. I shall therefore leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the Geurts c.s. amendment in piece No. 56 is actually the possibility of extending the problem provision for general administrative action on the basis of an opinion from a committee of wise men. The problem provision included in the legislative proposal only concerns companies that are disproportionately disadvantaged by the date of 2 July 2015. This has been deliberately chosen to limit the level of the necessary generic discount. By expanding the bottled supply, the size of the generic discount could increase significantly, especially if the bottled supply is also seen on latent stable space or on latent placement space on land. However, the amendment also states that the Committee of Wise Men should also be outside the scope of this amendment, including the consequences of possible enlargement. Having said that, I leave this amendment to the House. The Dijkgraaf amendment in part No. 57 also contains an entry into force clause, but this requires further conditions and goes a few steps further than the provision proposed by Mrs Lodders. I think Mrs Lodder's provision is workable, but not because it goes too far in terms of terms and dates. That is why I must strongly advise against this amendment. In the amended Van Gerven amendment to item No. 58 it is proposed that land-based companies should be granted phosphate rights in the event of land-based expansion. For this purpose, non-land-based farms need to be cut twice a year. You can't just do that. This requires a test of Article 1, First Protocol ECHR, as has already been said. Shortening non-ground dairy farmers twice a year cannot be justified on the basis of that test. That is why I must strongly advise against this amendment. In the amended Van Gerven amendment to item No. 59 proposes that mega-stables should not be granted new rights. There is no good argument as to why this legislative proposal should limit the absolute size of dairy farms. I do not see any reason to do so in this bill, and I therefore advise against this amendment. With his amendment to item No. 66 Mr Van Gerven wants to cut down common farms for the benefit of organic farms. The amendment regulates the right of ownership. This requires further sound justification in the light of Article 1, First Protocol ECHR. The additional generic discount is in addition to the already foreseen generic discount necessary to bring the number of phosphate rights into line with the production ceiling. In this case, there is no need for a reduction. I doubt to what extent this could pass a test on the basis of the article I have just mentioned. I therefore reject this amendment. In the amended Van Gerven amendment to item No. 61 it is proposed that land-based companies should be completely exempt from generic discounts in case of a transfer discount. I have said before that shorting on transfer is necessary to fill the phosphate bank. The phosphate bank is also needed to ensure that the legislative proposal complies with the European State aid frameworks. By avoiding soil-based farms from skimming, it becomes considerably more difficult to meet this requirement, as just under half of the farms are ground-bound. There will also be a very big difference between farms that are just land-based and those that are not. I therefore reject this amendment. In the amended Van Gerven amendment to item No. 64 it is proposed that phosphate rights are not negotiable but distributed via a ZBO. Not only did we discuss this extensively in April, but also just now. I strongly advise against this amendment. It's a completely different model than I'm proposing in the bill. In the Dijkgraaf amendment to part No. 65 it is proposed that a mixed holding may abolish pig or poultry duties and convert them into exemptions for phosphate rights. The current legislative proposal already provides for the possibility of converting production rights through an AMvB. The amendment therefore seems superfluous. However, as has already been said, the sectors do not yet see any transposition of one right into another. There is a desire to maintain the sector ceilings. I do not think that an amendment which offers a variation on this transposition, namely at company level, can be supported by the sector. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. The main reason is that it is superfluous compared to what is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u497	Since the LTOs of this world do not agree, an individual farmer who has chickens, pigs and cows within his company may not do so, while it is not transferable to another company.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u498	When you are allowed to do this within your company, what will prevent you from buying up pig rights, for example, as a dairy farm, and then converting them into phosphate rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u499	The Secretary of State referred earlier to the individual freedom of the farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u500	Yeah, but if you do this, you've undermined the sector ceilings. This means that any dairy farming can buy pig rights. She could do the same today if she wanted to. She just can't do that much with it. But if you can convert them into phosphate rights within your own company, it becomes very attractive. Pig rights are much cheaper per kilo of phosphate than phosphate rights. Then dairy farming will suck out pig farming if you actually open the lock with this amendment all at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u501	Go on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u502	The amendment in part No. 66 concerns the establishment of detailed rules for the transfer of phosphate rights at AMvB. That transition will be possible as of 1 January 2018. The AMvB must therefore enter into force on that date. I have in the amendment to item No. 6 already indicated that it is not realistic in the timetable to do all that. I must therefore discourage the amendment. In the amendment to item No. 67 calls for an exemption for holdings with less than 2.5 cows per hectare. Thus, by exempting part of dairy farming from phosphate rights, you cannot send for that either. You basically undermined your steering device. The aim of this system is not to produce too much phosphate. It also ignores the agreement with the European Commission that the total phosphate production is relevant to the ceiling provided for in the derogation. I therefore reject the amendment. In her amendment to item No. Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about an exception for beef cuts. That amendment stipulates that there can be set-off between two farms in order to correct for the cutting-in and cutting-out of dairy cows. Such netting shall not be regarded as a transfer subject to skimming. In doing so, Mrs Dik-Faber has a possible solution to the issue of beef and veal. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. Finally, I promised Mrs Lodder that we would return to this block on the question of the blank phosphate reference. All farmers whose RVO assumes they are dealing with the phosphate rights system have had a so-called service letter. Most of the companies over 17,000 have received a letter containing data. Other companies were asked to provide data because the data were not fully known. All entrepreneurs can submit their views. These are processed for the ultimate granting of the rights. This process often also runs in consultation with the relevant entrepreneurs in order to achieve a common clarity. That must therefore be done in the near future by joint agreement. This brings me to the last block, about the 2017 package. As I said earlier, we need to take measures to comply not only with what the European Commission requires by 1 January 2018, namely to ensure that we no longer exceed the phosphate production ceiling, but also to introduce the phosphate rights system only if we are no longer in breach of the phosphate production ceiling. A package of measures should therefore be taken in 2017 to reduce phosphate production below the phosphate production ceiling. Based on the most up-to-date data, the Central Bureau of Statistics calculated that phosphate production would be exceeded by 6.6 million kilos in 2016. The assignment for 2017 is to produce at least 6.6 million kilos less than in 2016. I spoke to LTO Nederland, NZO, Nevedi, NajK, NMV and Rabobank on 17 November. Network Fundamental and Stichting Natuur en Milieu were present. With the parties I mentioned first, I was able to reach agreement on a package of measures for the reduction of phosphate production in 2017. This package is based on the initiative of the various sector parties. They have looked at the measures they can take in their own right. So the lead lies in the business community. In doing so, it takes responsibility for the problem that has arisen and for its solution. Where possible, I support implementation and legal and financial resources. I've informed the Chamber about that. There are three main measures: the feed track, the reduction of the dairy herd through shrinkage or stopper schemes and the phosphate reduction plan of ZuivelNL. At least 1.7 million kilograms will be reduced by means of the transport track. This consists of tightening the maximum standards for phosphorus content in compound feed in an existing agreement between Nevedi, LTO Netherlands, NZO and VLB. Mr Grashoff asked whether this was intended to allow livestock to grow. No, that's not what it's for. The point is that the feed for the current livestock contains less phosphorus and so the manure also contains less phosphate. By reducing the dairy herd, phosphate production is reduced by 2.5 million kilograms. It's about dairy farmers who want to end the farm. There are also opportunities to support shrinkage. The number of stoppers has decreased in recent years. The expectation is that people are waiting for clarity about the phosphate rights system and so there are many stoppers who might be encouraged to make their decision to stop. For this they get a premium per dairy cow which they reduce. EUR 50 million is available for this measure. A large proportion of these resources come from the national envelope under EU action. The scheme will be opened in at least three tranches and the premium will always be slightly reduced per tranche. ZuivelNL's phosphate reduction plan aims to achieve 4 million kilograms of phosphate reduction by reducing the number of cows. This task is divided among the dairy companies, which transfer it back to the dairy farmers. The starting point is the growth that dairy farms have experienced after the date of 2 July 2015. Dairy companies may opt for a milk payment scheme or a dairy reduction scheme. This depends on the legal form and management of the dairy company. The milk money scheme is a bonus-malus system, where the milk supplied too much is malus. The proceeds are used to pay a bonus on the number of animals that a dairy farmer has shrunk. In the dairy reduction scheme, the reduction in livestock units is directly passed on to the dairy farmer, with the excess LUs being disposed of within a certain period of time. These three measures add up to a reduction of 8.2 million kilograms. That is enough to achieve the 6.6 million kilograms and to cope with any setbacks. In addition, I am still in consultation on measures that can strengthen the package. These are additional feed measures for the dairy sector. There might still be opportunities. Measures may also be taken by pig farming. This could also contribute to further reduction of total phosphate production in the Netherlands. I am in consultation with the European Commission on the 2017 package of measures. Some people asked about it. Its purpose is twofold. We are discussing with the Commission's environmental services that this package is sufficiently convincing and effective. We are also discussing its monitoring to ensure that they are provided with the data that will allow them to see that actual progress is being made. We are also talking to the people of the agricultural services and the competition services about clarity about the applicable frameworks for state aid, competition and the internal market. Together with the sector parties that have drawn up the plans, I am committed to ensuring that the first parts of the package can start from 1 January 2017. I would like to say to Mrs Ouwehand, who was concerned about the level of support, that through these sector parties broad support has been secured. Mrs Dik-Faber asked how we are watching this. I will, of course, closely monitor what this package brings. We will also have to discuss this with the Commission, because we will have to show that it works. Mr Van Gerven asked for further information. I will inform the Chamber before the end of the year about the package and the process that will take place in 2017. Mr Geurts and others asked how the package fits the law we are discussing today. The 2017 package ensures that phosphate production is brought into line with the phosphate ceiling. This will allow for the effective introduction of the phosphate rights system on 1 January 2018. This should then ensure that phosphate production remains below the ceiling. I am prepared to discuss with the sector whether the outcome of this debate and therefore the votes on the amendments can be taken into account in the package. I assume that the votes will take place next Tuesday. I am prepared to look with the sector at how this can be translated into the measures taken by the sector itself. This will include in particular the phosphate reduction plan of ZuivelNL. Mr Leenders asked how hard this package of measures was. I think it's an ambitious package. It's going a long way. If we look at the figures we have now, the package goes a lot further than what is needed to bring phosphate production back below the ceiling in 2017. It also shows that everyone has committed themselves to that. There are, of course, major interests at stake for the dairy companies, the dairy farmers, the bank and the feed companies. So they have all committed themselves to this so that this can be done. Questions have been asked about monitoring progress. I instruct the CBS to monitor the development of phosphate production next year throughout the year. On the basis of these results, any adjustments may be made and the Commission may be informed. In reply to Mrs Lodder's questions, I have already said that I am prepared to inform the Chamber about progress every quarter. The SP asked why the land-based farmers weren't allowed to talk. Network Thorough sat at the table with the director group and was therefore also at the discussion of the proposals. Network fundamentally did not agree with the measures of the package and therefore does not support them. There is support from LTO Nederland, the NMV and the NajK. They all sat at the table and they also represent land-based companies. After all, they are members of all these different organisations. Will land-based companies now also be spared? I have just said that I am prepared to discuss this with the sector, should this Chamber adopt the amendment in question. I know that ZuivelNL is following this debate with particular interest, and that is certainly true of this outcome. Mr Leender asked whether the responsibility now lies with the chain parties, because they have taken the lead in the action. The lead is indeed there. I support implementation and development wherever possible, but we are all in favour of achieving the result. It is also an interest that we share. Mr Dijkgraaf asked whether it is all legally sustainable and whether there are no implementation problems because not everyone agrees. The NZO, LTO Nederland, the NMV and ZuivelNL support this plan. They are going to ask for this measure to be made generally binding. As a result, the sector is bound in full width. I have promised to do everything I can to do that. At the moment, ZuivelNL is busy working on the plan. I support them in this, too, so that the measures are designed to ensure that they are legally sustainable. This is something that needs to be worked out now to ensure that sustainability is guaranteed. The sector and I do not see any need at the moment for a problem regulation. The sector is also working on a more detailed approach to the proposals. Mr President, I think I have answered almost all the questions. There were a couple of double questions. Otherwise, I'm gonna answer this double.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u503	No, neither do we. There is also a second term, so I say to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u504	The Secretary of State gives an interesting answer on the link between what appears to be changing to the law based on the consideration of the amendments and the package. I ask the Secretary of State if he can make it perfectly clear that he is genuinely committed to bringing that package into line with what the amended law is about to regulate. Is he prepared to include Network Solid and Farming & Nature in this, in such a way that the basis is indeed wide and we are likely to have less problems with the general statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u505	That was your question, too, Mr Leenders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u506	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u507	I have said that I am prepared to discuss with the sector how to involve the results of this debate in the scheme. It is up to the sector to shape the scheme. We ourselves have taken the lead in this measure. I support that with a general commitment. I have already noted that, as can be seen at this time, the sector is following this debate with great interest and has also said that it will naturally involve this debate in the elaboration of the regulation that is still taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u508	The answer from the Secretary of State is that the sector is very reluctant. Perhaps also a question about the general declaration. The Secretary of State has a very clear position at the table. He can also tell the sector that a general statement is nice, but that he really wants to have the full support, so that we can really make progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u509	In my opinion, there is broad support. This is also apparent from the parties who support this. It would be fantastic if Network Bottomline could support this. However, many farmers will also be asked to contribute next year. The responsibility for the package of measures and the general statement lies with the sector. That is why I am answering Mr Grashoff's question in this way. I think he understood me very well when I said that I will discuss this with the sector and that it listens to this debate with great attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u510	Two brief questions. I would like an answer from the Secretary of State to the question of the time limit for the general statement to be completed. I am also curious to know when the statements of no objection are complete. The Secretary of State in Zwolle and Veghel promised that the sector, including the dairy sector, could go to Brussels. How is the Secretary of State going to shape this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u511	We have agreed that we are in this together and that we are coordinating our efforts for Brussels. If the European Commission is open to explaining its commitment to business, I am happy to cooperate. The most important thing is that we agreed with each other that we stand together for this package, so that we also join forces and coordinate what we are discussing in Brussels. We are trying to get the general statement as quickly as possible. The first step is that the sector itself develops its rules and applies for a general binding declaration on the basis of them. Our commitment is to settle this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u512	The Secretary of State has just referred to my remark that we can do more together in Brussels. How is this designed? Does this mean that people from the dairy sector can also take them to Brussels at official level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u513	They can come anytime. Brussels is not that far either. I assume that Mr Geurts is concerned...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u514	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u515	... that we work together in this and that we coordinate everything in close consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u516	I'll come back to the position of the biofarmers in 2017. They are not covered by the derogation. Does this mean that they are not also covered by the general declaration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u517	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u518	The sectoral plan does not distinguish between organic and non-organic farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u519	But will organic farmers be spared in that sector plan, similar to the discussion we are having about the law for introduction in 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u520	There is an amendment in the Chamber to ensure that land-based farmers are fully protected. The Chamber will have to vote on that on Tuesday. I have said that, if the House accepts the amendment, I will discuss with the sector organisations the consequences for the package that is now in place. I have also said that this debate is being followed with great attention. Organic farmers have no particular position in this; they are land-based farmers. Just for clarity: also cows from organic farmers just poop; they also come from phosphate. That all counts in the phosphate production ceiling. Even if you do not use the derogation yourself, I think it is important for the whole sector to retain the derogation. So everyone in the sector is being asked to contribute in any way. That is a question of solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u521	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I'll suspend the meeting for two minutes and then we'll go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u522	I call Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u523	Mr. Chairman. It is those in the public gallery who compliment those who are still there, but I am sure all respect for those who have already gone home has noticed that there are not so many points of light in this debate with regard to the legislative proposal that was there. In any case, I count my blessings with the Lodders amendment: no derogation, no phosphate rights. But of course it would also be foolish that if you eventually lose the derogation, you will also have phosphate rights, because then you will be shaved on both sides. And that usually doesn't look so good. A second glimmer of light is the amendment on ground boundness. There is still a catch, but I will come back to that in a moment. The fact that land-based businesses are spared is, of course, good for them. I noticed two things. Firstly, there have been no negotiations on a comprehensive package so far. This has come out very clearly through the interruptions. As far as I am concerned, too much has been done at official level and too little at the level of the Secretary of State. And if that ever happened, it always had to do with the technique. The first thing we do is keep agreements, it's creed, and then we talk about a package, because then we can negotiate. I think that's a big missed opportunity. I don't think it's true either. The Secretary of State should have put his fist on the table a lot more. I am convinced that there would have been a great chance that we would have been much better off and that we would not have had to cut down so strictly. In my first term, I asked: are we going to support the phosphate rights law? I have put forward some things that would be necessary for us to support that law. I have to tell you, the Secretary of State didn't give me a hard time. Often you have five things and you get two or three, and you don't get the other one. You have to talk endlessly in the group about what to do. I had six amendments. An amendment proposes to introduce an end date of 2023. That's not recommended. An amendment proposes that exports to low-phosphate countries should be stretched off the ceiling, which is not recommended. As far as I'm concerned, the right should remain on your own company so that, if you have a better year, you have the right again. That too is dissuaded. I also wanted a heavy front at the discount. That's not recommended. I would like substitution on the farm between chickens, pigs and cows. That's not recommended. I would like more honest fines; that too is not recommended. That's why the choice isn't so difficult for me. In fact, I have only one point left: the groundboundness. I welcome the fact that this is happening, but I do not think that other companies should be cut short. Now the motion will be dissuaded, but I think you should remain constructive until the end and see what you can still bring in. I am always aiming for the adoption of motions and amendments which are not recommended. Because motions and amendments that get the Court's judgment usually do the same to the Secretary of State himself. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to increase the generic discount for the other companies if fully land-based companies are spared from the generic discount,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u524	The Secretary of State will in a moment dissuade it by saying that this cannot be done, because the law will then be blown up because that space is not there at all. He will not go into the plans I mentioned in my first term and add them to 10 million kilos, resulting from space in the other sectors: 3 million kilos of pigs, 2 million kilos and exports. As has already been said, I thought it appropriate to put this motion down here to try to get the Secretary of State to think better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u525	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. First of all, I would like to say something about the process. That really doesn't deserve a beauty prize. If we ask a simple question about the timetable in which we want to know when and exactly what the Secretary of State spoke about, there will be no answer. The Secretary of State states that there has been talk and that he has been very committed, particularly in October, I understood from him when the problems were so great, when Europe said: you have no green light from us at all, because we see this as state aid. It was declared illegal state aid by the EU. The EU simply said that you introduced marketability without reducing the exceeded ceiling again, so that this would involve unlawful state aid. If the Secretary of State was indeed closely involved from the outset, at least from March onwards, then it should not be complicated to give such a timetable? It's significant that that doesn't happen. Then the contents. I've asked a few questions, including those 23 million crisis money. I didn't get an answer. I would like those questions answered. I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State welcomes Mrs Dik-Faber's and me's amendment to ground-boundity. I believe that farms which are land-based and have nothing to do with the manure surplus should be spared. The refinement that Mr Van Gerven has put in an amendment can also count on our support. There is only one point I am concerned about: that the Secretary of State does not rule out the possibility of a shortcut to prevent skimming of rights. I want the Secretary of State to promise me that he will closely monitor whether such a shortcut is indeed being chosen. If that's the case, we should take steps in that too. We cannot be expected to introduce all kinds of things that could have adverse consequences. Finally, I wish the Secretary of State every success and strength in the negotiations. The derogation is insanely important. We have to keep it. He needs that support from the Chamber, but above all the wish for strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u526	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the prompt but also adequate answer to the questions that have been asked. I am very pleased that he supports the amendment by the Christian Union and D66 on land-based dairy farming and not reducing it. This is really a crucial amendment for my group to vote in favour of the law. I have also seen the sub-amendment of the SP, which removes the hard effects around the border between well- and non-ground-bound. I think this is an improvement and I will support the amendment. The Secretary of State also welcomed other amendments tabled by me or tabled by me. I refer to the manure feed contracts, the recycling guide and the committee of wise men who is going to advise on the problem regulation. I would also like to mention the last amendment, which deals with the marketing and marketing of livestock. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his warm words on these amendments. A motion will be tabled by the CDA shortly. My name's on that, too. It's about the near future. I think it is very important to keep the Chamber well informed on the sixth action programme for the Nitrates Directive. I had an exchange of views with the Secretary of State. On another point, I would also like to be kept informed, namely the consultation with the sector on the sectoral plan. The Secretary of State is going to work on a general statement, but he could not mention deadlines yet. I ask him, and that is my most important question in this period of time, to keep the Chamber informed on a weekly basis about the outcome of that consultation. The end of the year is approaching and we are so in 2017. We really need to get together on this. I am very curious if the sector will adapt the plan on the basis of the law adopted. I'm assuming that's true, based on the messages I'm getting now. If it isn't, I'd love to hear it at the shortest possible time. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State, because during this debate a beautiful calf was born in Giessenland and was named after him. I'm sure that's what you're asking for... a biscuit with mice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u527	Mr. Chairman. Mr Graus is concerned about my transport. I'm glad, but that's not the point at all. Actually, I'm almost always here on a bike. That's very good. I can say that it is probably going to give birth after this endlessly long day to have a nice ride home later. This debate does produce something, in the sense that at least some of the amendments, not from my hand, but from colleagues I respect, are in any case welcomed by the Secretary of State. The most important of these is the Amendment No 1 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 31 by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Koşer Kaya. In conjunction with Mr Van Gerven's sub-amendment, that amendment actually deals with exactly what I proposed in my amendment to item 32. The Secretary of State has said: I think that is technically a little less than Mr Van Gerven's sub-amendment. Let me make it clear that, as far as I am concerned, it is not a problem for my amendment to item No. 32 to be withdrawn in favour of the combination of documents No. 31 and 55. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u528	Just for the Acts. I would ask you to withdraw the amendment. 32 in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u529	The amendment in part No. 32 shall be repealed in favour of No 32; 31 and 55 together, because they actually do the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u530	The Grashoff amendment (Doc. 32) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u531	I have also looked at the dates of submission. Those are still of those things, but I believe Mrs Dik-Faber was half a day ahead of me in tabling a similar amendment, so honor who deserves credit. At the same time, I can see that with the amendment to item No. Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber I would also like to give that the benefit of the doubt, but I doubt whether this will ultimately have any negative side effects. In the debate on the interruption with Mr Geurts, I also mentioned this, but it comes back in its final form. Then we can still judge that. I would like to suspend that judgment, which means that I am suspending the amendment to item No. 14 will support it, in particular because it may be possible to find a piece of the solution for those organic farmers who, according to the definition, are not ground-bound but are, of course, ground-bound by the nature of their operations. That is clearly described in the explanatory statement. So far. Now to the principled side. It remains a difficult consideration for my group. I am going to discuss with my group what to do with this amended bill. That is quite a dilemma, because I find it incredibly annoying that in 2017 we will not go to the phosphate ceiling with binding rules. I still feel that there has been missed an opportunity that everyone would have been happy about, including the sector itself. So it remains a dilemma for me. I'll take it back to the group. At the moment, I cannot judge our voting behaviour on this. However, I can see that there has been an improvement on an essential point, assuming that these amendments will be with the authors and the State Secretary's opinion. I'm coming up with the plan for 2017. That is crucial, because only if this proposal or plan can be supplemented or adapted in 2017 after consultation with that sector and it is sufficiently certain that it will happen and that it will have real support and therefore not a part of the support base, but a real support base, as far as I am concerned, including among the land-based farmers, who, in particular, are represented by the Network of Fundamental Rights, and organic farmers, who are actually farmers, would be extremely positive for my group. It is difficult, because we have to vote on the law first and then it comes up. Now that I have listened to the answers of the Secretary of State with great attention, I think it would be wise to include them in a statement from the Chamber. I made the next attempt to do so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is an agreement between agricultural sector organisations, FrieslandCampina, the Rabobank and the State Secretary on reducing the phosphate surplus;]] [[noting that sector organisations representing organic and land-based farmers are not involved;]] [[Whereas, in this Sector Understanding, organic and land-based dairy farmers should contribute to the reduction of livestock in 2017, while not causing the phosphate problem;]] [[calls on the Government to resume negotiations with all relevant parties in the agricultural sector in order to adapt this agreement in such a way as to avoid land-based and organic dairy farmers from the necessary reduction of the dairy herd in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u532	My question is more lyrical. Mr Grashoff mentions FrieslandCampina, but I think he means the Dutch Dairy Organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u533	Yes, I'm certainly prepared to amend the motion in that sense if that's a little more accurate. I think Mr Geurts is right about that. Finally, I have another motion which takes on another element. It reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State indicated in the letter of 3 March 2016 that he wants the phosphate production ceiling to expire as a condition of the derogation decision;]] [[believes that we need less manure and livestock instead of more;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from calling for an increase or abolition of the national phosphate production ceiling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u534	I am therefore anxious to await the reaction of the Secretary of State, particularly the motion. That reaction will be extremely important for us in the final weighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u535	Mr. Chairman. The law before us and the package are not the solution for dairy farming in the Netherlands. For the Party for Animals the balancing is very difficult. A number of the amendments and part of the legislative proposal provide for the much-needed production restriction, but the way it is to cry. The package from the sector, 200,000 healthy cows to the slaughter, because the sector itself has out of control: are we seriously going to agree with that, people? The organic farmers who are hit hard by this bill, while they have no part or part of the problems. I am actually a little embarrassed that these are the proposals that lie ahead in this Chamber. We have an amendment in the making. It's complicated. The plan made by organic dairy farmers together with nature, environmental and animal welfare organisations is a good one. It came in early this week. Much must be done to ensure that this is done legally, but the Animal Party will do everything in its power to ensure that that amendment is still in the Chamber on Monday. It seems very important to me that the Labour Party should opt for the organic farmers and not for the sense of the VVD. We must ensure that the biological sector is supported by us. We always say that's the future. We must now show our support for this. Just a motion, just a call to the Secretary of State to ask if he might want to talk to the sector, is not enough. We are voting on Tuesday on what is going to happen to dairy farming, and I urge the Labour Party, which is always saying warm words about the organic sector: now you cannot abandon organic farmers as is happening in the plans that are now in place. As a safety net for that amendment, I also have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that land-based and organic dairy farmers, together with nature, environmental and animal welfare organisations, have developed an alternative plan B for a transition to a fully land-based dairy farming in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the plan B results in a significant reduction in phosphate production, without prejudice to land-based and organic farmers, as these farms have not contributed to the current manure surplus;]] [[Whereas this plan leads to major environmental, nature and animal welfare gains;]] [[calls on the Government to embrace this alternative plan B of sustainable dairy farmers and to come forward with proposals to ensure that this plan is legally guaranteed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u536	My question concerns the amendment that the Party for Animals is preparing for next Monday. In the first term, there was a discussion on whether there was sufficient support from the Ministry. Is that problem solved? Maybe I missed it. Is there enough official support?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u537	Well, it would be nice if the Secretary of State could promise that in his second term. It was so complicated that it didn't work out at least in this period. But I'm assuming that tomorrow we'll get sufficient support, including from the people of the ministry. It would be nice if the Secretary of State could now undertake to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u538	It simply supports the drafting of amendments. That's not a point of debate here, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u539	Well, of course the Chamber has Bureau of Legislation. The people there work well and hard, and they do good work. However, some amendments also involve contact with the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u540	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u541	It would be nice if we could simply be assured of that support on this complex issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u542	That seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u543	Yes, but it would be nice if the Secretary of State would say that instead of the President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u544	No, we're not gonna discuss this; it just happens. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u545	Well, chairman, I didn't know you were talking about the occupation and the deployment of the people in the ministry...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u546	It's been like this for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u547	But if you're going to go over it and if that's changed, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u548	For years now, the agreement has been that MPs are supported by the departments when drafting amendments. I think that's true here, too. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u549	I have every confidence in it after these words, Mr President. One of the major problems with a previous legislative proposal on the growth of dairy farming, which is now included in this bill, is that "ground-based" as defined by the Cabinet, is not ground-bound. The Animal Party is committed to applying the definitions already laid down for the biological sector in terms of soil density. That leaves us with a problem. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to exempt land-based companies from the generic discount on phosphate rights;]] [[noting that a small number of organic dairy farms do not comply with the definition of land-basedness in the Fertilisers Act, but do work ground-bound according to the European Organic Directive;]] [[calls on the Government to consider all organic holdings as land-based holdings, including those which have so far met their mandatory land-based requirements in the form of cooperation with another organic certified establishment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u550	We have not received sufficient answers to the question as to what exactly the results of this transport track have been, which has been seen as the solution for 20 years. And what exactly are the perspectives? Something tells me that the Secretary of State does not have such a strong basis for obtaining and retaining the new derogation if he wants us to believe. He is still entitled to reply in writing, because we are really looking forward to that support. Another problem for dairy farmers is the loss of permanent grassland. Its preservation is a condition of the common agricultural policy. This is the only natural and environmental condition imposed on income support. With the increasing collection of cows and the ploughing of grassland, this condition seems to be at risk. When I asked the Secretary of State about this, he talked about ploughing grassland and re-sowing it. It wasn't about that. These are vulnerable permanent grasslands that need to be preserved. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one of the greening requirements of the common agricultural policy is that permanent grassland should be maintained and that intervention should be taken when more than 5% of the existing grassland disappears;]] [[noting that more and more permanent grasslands are disappearing, and that only vulnerable grasslands within Natura 2000 areas have so far been protected;]] [[calls on the Government, even outside Natura 2000 sites, to designate vulnerable permanent grasslands that should not be converted to other functions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u551	I come to animal welfare. The Party for Animals is probably the only party in the Chamber who does not find it very funny that a calf was born named after the Secretary of State. Die calves, and also heifers, are taken from the mother within a day, while these animals need to be with their mother, drink milk with their mother and be cared for by their mother. The mother cow has the similar need to take care of her calf. They're mammals. That is the natural need of this species. A calf is taken from the mother immediately after birth and is probably placed in a loner box. If it's a bull, it goes to the calf fattening. That's where the animal's gonna suck on other calves. It's just that that need is instilled, but his mother isn't there. Pretending to be funny is a huge morally underlying problem of dairy farming. That's just one of the big welfare problems. I think that we should take these problems seriously, that we should recognise them, and that we should look for solutions that fit in with respect for the animal's natural needs and respectful handling of animals in livestock farming. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter. I believe that the Secretary of State should show greater ambition and not be so easily frightened by resistance from the sector. He must show leadership, not only in maintaining the derogation, but also in realising his animal welfare ambitions. You gotta have a straight back for that. I'm counting on him being trained and getting on with it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that grazing in dairy farming continues to decline, which means that more and more cows are stabled all year round;]] [[also noted that there are major animal welfare problems in dairy farming, including the frequent occurrence of painful claw infections and mastitis, the separation of calf and cow immediately after birth, the lack of sufficient opportunities to exhibit species-specific behaviour and health damage resulting from the continued increase in milk production per cow;]] [[Whereas animal welfare is not only the absence of pain and stress, but also the presence of the possibility of exhibiting natural (cuddle) behaviour;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an action agenda with strong ambitions and measures to promote grazing and improve animal welfare and health in dairy farming and calf farming, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof by March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u552	Finally. The amendment that the Party for Animals is preparing makes it possible for animal welfare ambitions, natural ambitions, environmental ambitions and a future perspective for the sustainable farmer. The current legislative proposals and the sector package are going the other way. If you want to work seriously on animal welfare, nature and the environment, you will really have to make fundamentally different choices. This amendment, which comes to the Chamber on Monday, could be that change of course. I call on the Secretary of State to embrace it and the Labour Party to support it so that we can move towards a sustainable future for dairy farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u553	Mr. Chairman. I have six motions. I'll start right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is appropriate to provide for the possibility for a farmer to transfer his production rights from pigs and/or poultry to dairy cows;]] [[Calls on the Government to allow mixed companies to convert one-off production rights into phosphate rights on the basis of the reference date of 2 July 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the desire of civil society and industry to establish a land-based dairy farming organisation;]] [[noting the need for a stable policy for dairy farming to be able to produce within the environmental limits beyond 2017;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether, in the long term, phosphate rights for dairy farming can be linked to the hectares of fodder in use (per farm per hectare) so that dairy farming develops land-based;]] [[calls on the Government to identify its impact on non-ground-based companies and the potential for step-by-step introduction, and to inform the Court of Justice in the first quarter of 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that thousands of family businesses are at great risk and that the urgency is enormous;]] [[Considers that all efforts are needed to negotiate the package of dairy measures and the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme and the derogation;]] [[calls on the Government to update the Chamber every two weeks on the state of play and the actions to be taken on the dairy package and the sixth action programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to allow the taxing of phosphate rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas approved organic holdings have a controlled system for demonstrating the disposal of manure from other organic holdings;]] [[Whereas, unlike common farms, organic farms are not normally subject to financial obligations for the marketing of manure;]] [[calls on the Government to consider biological certification as a financial obligation under the Ground-based Growth Act and the Land-based Growth Calculation Rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a limited but growing number of dairy farmers invests in manure processing on their own holding;]] [[Whereas several plants are available to produce exportable manure as the final product of this manure processing, with an export declaration from NVWA;]] [[Whereas these holdings are rejected in the current assessment for exemption because they process the manure on their own holding without the intervention of an intermediary;]] [[Whereas this affects these dairy farmers disproportionately, and that individual assessment is desirable;]] [[calls on the Government, when implementing the exemption, to allow for the exemption of dairy farmers who prove themselves to be able to cultivate the manure on the holding and on the basis of export abroad, to comply with the processing obligation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532/76]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-77]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts, Mr Koşer Kaya, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Grashoff and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-78]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-79]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-80]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u554	I have one more question open to the Secretary of State, not unimportant. It's about the meat cattle. I am concerned about the way in which phosphate rights will be organised in the meat sector. I would like clarification on this. At this time, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I thank the support of all of us, that is, from the Ministry and from us as MPs. I would also like to thank the audience in the gallery, including the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u555	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u556	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna stop by on a couple of things. This concerns first of all the comments made by the Secretary of State on the amendment to item No. 60. This concerns providing additional space to the organic dairy farmers. I would like to read a motion that has been passed by the Chamber. The Court, having heard the debate, calls on the Government to come up with a system that does not undermine new organic dairy farms, expanding organic dairy farms and farms that switch to organic dairy farming by the phosphate rights system, and moves to the order of the day. That motion must be carried out by the Secretary of State. On my amendment to item No. 60 said the Secretary of State that this could not be done, because it does not fit within the ECHR, the European Convention on Human Rights, but organic farming does not make use of the derogation. That is why, in our view, the Secretary of State's argument is not sound. We think it does comply with the ECHR. This legislative proposal threatens to require 6,000 healthy organic dairy cows to be killed. The only reason for this is this proposal. Let's avoid that. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to reconsider his judgment. I have one more question on the amendment to item No. 52, on greenhouse gases. I'll wait for the Secretary of State's answer. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that the future of dairy farming is towards land-based and grazing;]] [[calls on the Government to focus its policy on this issue;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that existing and future measures and legislative proposals are independently assessed as to whether they are bringing this future closer and, if so, to what extent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34532-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u557	I come to a conclusion in this remarkable debate, particularly in view of this late hour, but also in view of its outcome. It appears to be an important wish of a majority in the Chamber to rely on ground boundness. That needs to be spared. If the omens do not deceive, the bill is amended in such a way that land-based companies are spared from the generic discount. That's a piece of justice. It is also fair that an amendment is likely to be adopted which will gradually lead to the transition between ground-boundness and non-ground-boundity, which is skimming. It is very reasonable that that should happen. That too is a good result. What I do not understand in the whole debate is the behaviour of Mr Dijkgraaf. "Rambo" Dijkgraaf, that was a bit of my gut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u558	Are we gonna sit around at 5:45 p.m. and pick on each other a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u559	At a quarter to five, yeah. No, it's actually not bullying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u560	It's a compliment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u561	No, not a compliment; that goes a little far. It is an explanation of Mr Dijkgraaf's behaviour, because he was a bit dangerous in all his proposals. With his proposals, he is actually putting the derogation at risk. I don't think that's wise. In this debate, we must strive for a solution that will give farmers the future and prospects, but also long-term security. I do not think it is right to propose or to give the impression that we only have to do certain things until 2023, for example. I do not think it is right to raise that suggestion, because it is very important that we set a clear line, including from the political point of view, and we try to create good conditions so that the derogation is retained, so that we work towards ground-boundness and so that farmers can earn a decent living. We should not be putting that policy back at risk again very quickly for any reason. We need to make plans here and make proposals where we can actually say that we will do so over the next ten years, for example, so that everyone knows what he is up to; we can continue to do so and the sector can build on it. I kind of missed that man-brother understanding with Mr. Dijkgraaf. This is a little entrapment, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u562	I really wouldn't do that. We've got almost ten hours here or maybe longer...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u563	There is a serious undertone, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u564	This is no reason to provoke each other here and thus resume the debate. That has taken place sufficiently. But Mr Dijkgraaf can respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u565	Get him, Rambo! Get him!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u566	Mr. Chairman. I do not need to have that discussion again, because I think the positions are clear. I think it is a bit of an amazing conclusion from Mr Van Gerven, but it is his right to conclude that. My point has always been: had gone to Brussels much earlier, precisely to secure the derogation. Mr Van Gerven mentioned one specific point, namely 2023. That is beyond the period of the new derogation. I can't imagine Brussels having any difficulty with that in any way. And if Brussels does have a problem with that, we will soon find out. As long as the Secretary of State goes to Brussels quickly! If that's called "rambo behavior," I'll take that as a name.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u567	I said this because I do not think we should raise certain expectations that are simply dangerous. I call for very consistent policies from the Chamber. We should not say one minute 'the milk quota can get rid of it; go ahead' and, as it were, introduce three laws an hour later to reverse or regulate it again. We shouldn't do that by the laws we're about to pass. If we have adopted these laws with the perspective that we are moving towards ground-boundness and that we must ensure that we do not exceed the phosphate ceiling and so on, we must try to hold on to it for a long time. We should not create the illusion that we can start to celebrate again very quickly and say 'go ahead' at the moment we come under the phosphate ceiling. I advocate that we...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u568	You already have...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u569	... shouldn't do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u570	...as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u571	I have one more comment, Mr President, if I may. Then I'm quitting, too. It's just the facts. I refer to the PBL report of 2016. Our scientists say in September that there is a decreasing trend in phosphate if you take the effects of soil binding and manure legislation alone. I base myself on scientific reports. If Mr Van Gerven prefers air cycling, he must choose to do so. We simply read the reports and base our policies on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u572	I suggest you continue with your story, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u573	I'll move on, Mr. Chairman, and come to a conclusion. I find it remarkable that Mr Dijkgraaf is talking about these scientific reports. Now let those scientists have said that the milk quota could be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u574	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u575	So I would argue that we should not change the policy too quickly on the basis of a report or an opinion and then give all kinds of space, while we have seen the debris and chaos over the past five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u576	Go on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u577	I want to make sure we do that again. That is why I explicitly called on Mr Dijkgraaf. I just felt that he had a tendency to see possibilities again very quickly to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u578	Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u579	... to celebrate the reins again, where we all...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u580	Mr. Van Gerven!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u581	...have seen that this is not wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u582	Mr. Van Gerven, now I'm going to bother you...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u583	You don't have to do that, Mr. Chairman. I'm done. So.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u584	Yes, but then you really shouldn't use another to go into it extensively, because this is just the second term. The debate has taken place sufficiently. I think it's good to finish it in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u585	I am missing an attempt at a conclusion from Mr Van Gerven. He says that things have improved, but what is his view on the state of play? Let us assume that these positively appreciated amendments come in, then what is the SP? How's the balance? Or can Mr Van Gerven not say that yet? We are both very keen in the 2017 package.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u586	A short response!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u587	Profits have been made compared to the bill that was there. That has been amended "to better." We won't be finished in 2017. It's being prosecuted. My final conclusion is that we should not be celebrating the reins, but should be very tight and publicly on top of them. We must prevent the drama of moving over in no time from reappearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u588	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u589	Mr. Chairman. We talked a lot tonight. In three minutes, my alarm clock goes this morning. It's a unique experience for me to walk around here for almost 24 hours. Nevertheless, we have had a serious debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. On some points it was somewhat shorter, but I think we can make an assessment of the issues that have been raised here. I've heard the Secretary of State make a commitment to inform the Chamber. I shall now proceed to the motion by Mr Geurts and others. do not support it, because I think that biweekly information is unworkable for both the Secretary of State and the sector. In fact, I think it's really overwhelmed. I think we should work together to do business. I've drawn attention to the troubles. I will not repeat my points, but they will stand. It may be the late hour, but if I am right, I have not had an answer to the further step I would like to take with regard to the KringloopWijzer, so that the sector can create a system that is well secured and which we can see in the short term. This is an instrument for controlling phosphate production. It is extremely important for my group. I shall, however, support Mr Geurts' amendment. I also made a point concerning phosphate extraction off the coast of the South African countries. I have cited the World Wildlife Fund for this and often I do not really get a reaction to it when I bring that kind of thing up. I will come back to that at a later stage, because it is very interesting to have a good look at that. A number of sympathetic amendments have been tabled. No matter how sympathetic, I won't support them all. At least that is what I will advise my group. I will not repeat his words, Mr Van Gerven, but I would also like to make a critical note: we cannot put the derogation at risk. We have taken a very difficult step today. Tuesday will show whether this is an inevitable step. Everything is aimed at maintaining the derogation. As far as my group is concerned, we will certainly be discussing this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u590	Mrs. Lodders said my motion to get a biweekly update is unworkable. I conclude that Mrs Lodders accepts that we will receive an update from the Secretary of State in December and July 2017. That's the deal the Secretary of State or the Chamber wants to make. I don't know if that's enough for the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u591	I heard the Secretary of State say that we are informed every quarter about the package of measures and about the derogation negotiations. I assume the Secretary of State will find the Chamber if necessary. I think we have had a very strong debate here. Last week we had the budgetary procedure, where I think a number of strong notes were cracked. I'm starting to look for words, but that's because of the time, I'm afraid. Once in the quarter, I think it's workable. I am not going to ask the Secretary of State, his support or the sector to report every two weeks, because before the last letter is written and the whole circus is completed, they can start the next note. I would prefer them to use all this energy here, but certainly also towards Brussels, in order to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u592	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u593	Good morning, Madam President. I'm back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u594	Good morning. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u595	I can tell you now that I spent the night with the chairman. I'm about to tweet it: I spent the night with the President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u596	I thought you were wearing new shoes. That has something to do with it. Without boots, yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u597	Madam President. I have signed a motion with Mr Geurts of the CDA and also with Professor "Rambo" Dijkgraaf, a nice new nickname, which he will never get rid of again. I am also going to look at all the amendments with farmers, as I said in the first term. Several farmers have checked in, by email, by phone and via Twitter. Some of them I'm going to visit, and some of them I do by phone or by e-mail. I would like farmers to take part in my voting advice to the group, which I like to do. I will give an informed opinion on the vote. I haven't quite figured it out yet. I know we can't go back, but I'm sorry about that. I would like to emphasise once again that I really believe that we should not have been here at all. The worst part is those phosphates. It bothers me very much that one of the most valuable raw materials and building materials has caused farmers such as waste problems. I find that incomprehensible, really. I have nothing else to submit. I'm not gonna do that, because that's all fine for a second, and I don't think I should. Once again, we will see it on Tuesday at the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u598	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I see the Secretary of State can answer directly. That's nice. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u599	Mr. Chairman. Given the time, I think that would be nice. We are not trying to break the record Mr Dijkgraaf spoke of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u600	Hey, I'll let you interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u601	Mrs Koşer Kaya asked about the shortcut to start a legal person and whether I want to monitor whether that happens. Yes, because we need to fill the phosphate bank. If that doesn't happen unexpectedly, I want to know why. I will go after that and if there is reason to do so, I will inform the Chamber. I'd be happy to say so. She also asked if the 23 million crisis money is all for dairy and not for pigs. I have 23 million European funds and 7 million from my own budget. She asked where that came from. 4 million from joint management and 3 million from the guarantee facility. Those were budget risk provisions. I think what we are dealing with now is a greater risk, so I deliberately chose to make 7 million available from these funds. That makes 30 million together. Of these, 5 million are earmarked for pig farming and 25 million for dairy farming. The dairy industry has committed an additional 25 million to the stopper and shrinkage scheme for dairy farming in the phosphate reduction package. I would add that I have made the reservation for pig farming that it also contributes to the reduction of phosphate. I will inform the Chamber in detail within a few days about the use of the national envelope, in particular the precise structure, the national summit and the national resources that we are making available. This information shall be forwarded to the Court at the same time as the annotated agenda for the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. Mr Geurts asked about the consequences of the phosphate system for meat cattle. The phosphate duty system applies to animal categories 100, 101 and 102. Mr Geurts knows what I'm talking about and the people who are still listening probably know what I'm talking about. This is examined by the RVO when it is awarded. The scope of the system is dairy cows and young cattle intended for milk production. This is linked to the existing animal categories under the Fertilisers Act. It is inevitable that there is also young cattle that are eventually raised as meat cattle. Mr Van Gerven owed me a response to the amendment on item No. 52. This is about greenhouse gases. I can support the addition of greenhouse gases. It wasn't in the law that way. Mr Van Gerven was right about that. I still don't agree with the heavy front. As long as he leaves it in there, I must advise against this amendment. Otherwise, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u602	We amend the amendment as advocated by the Secretary of State. Then the verdict could be "Room," I understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u603	However, this amendment removes the whole article from the law. Anyway, it's up to the Chamber to decide how she handles it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u604	We are going to have this looked at by the Ministry, because the last remark brings back some fog in the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u605	No. This will be resolved by the Registry itself when it draws up the voting list, because Mr Van Gerven has tabled two amendments which cannot be both adopted. One amendment deletes an article, while the other adds a condition. Mr Van Gerven will find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u606	We're gonna study it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u607	Mr Van Gerven has asked me to give an opinion on the amendment to No. 60 to reconsider. No. I had, of course, thought very carefully about the advice I gave on this issue. It's not gonna work. It's not gonna work. It's gonna work. Mrs. Lodders asked about the KringloopWijzer. In response to Mr Geurts' amendment, I have said that I very much welcome its use. We are also introducing a system of phosphate rights, not animal rights, precisely because we want that company-specific guidance. Only, the KringloopWijzer instrument is not yet ready to justify phosphate rights in a business-specific manner. The following conditions must be met. The systems and the accounting rules must be independently and scientifically assessed. The KringloopWijzer must be kept private and there must be clear criteria to determine whether companies have correctly completed the KringloopWijzer. It will therefore be an instrument that we must be able to use to check that companies have actually done the right thing. The Committee of Experts on Fertilizers Act reviews these accounting rules independently and scientifically. I expect the result this year. The dairy chain works on private depositing the KringloopWijzer and establishing clear criteria. It'll take time. At the moment I cannot predict whether this will happen before 1 January 2018, but everyone's commitment is focused on this. In fact, I said this in response to Mr Geurts' amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u608	I think I've heard this before from the Secretary of State. Can we be informed about the state of play somewhere before 1 May 2017? Then I'm not going to go into it any further at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u609	In an amendment tabled by Mr Geurts I think it says 'within eight months', but I say that out of my mind. There is already a duty to inform in good time and, in my opinion, in the interim. I am looking at Mr Geurts. He probably knows better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u610	If it says that we are also informed in the interim, I am fine with it, but otherwise I would like to know what the situation is before 1 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u611	I think it would be good to let the Chamber know how it is going in the spring. Then I come to the motions that have been tabled. In the Dijkgraaf/Graus motion in part No. 69 the government is asked not to increase the generic discount for companies, in order to spare the land-based companies. This cannot be done, because it would mean that the total amount of phosphate duty would be higher than the ceiling. I therefore advise against this motion. In the Grashoff/Van Gerven motion to item No. 70 the government is invited to renegotiate with all relevant parties in the agricultural sector. This is too much for me. I would like to reiterate that I am happy to speak with the sector organisations, including ZuivelNL, in response to this debate and to draw their attention to the conclusions of this debate, so that they can take this into account in the practical implementation of the measure they are proposing. I promised, so I'm gonna do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u612	I expected the Secretary of State to find this motion to support policy. I understand that this motion is a little more precise than the Secretary of State might like, but here we are talking very clearly about bringing two routes into line, firstly the package and secondly the law. If necessary, I am prepared to take a look at Mr Van Gerven's point of view, in the operative part of the motion, to change the word 'negotiation' into 'consultation', if the State Secretary does not like 'negotiation'. I attach great importance to this motion, so I would like to make an attempt on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u613	For me, the problem is that I consider the motion to be somewhat superfluous. I told Mr Grashoff what I'm going to do. I am going to talk to ZuivelNL and will highlight the conclusions of this debate. The latter does not really need to be done, because I think some representatives of ZuivelNL are still in the gallery. They are following this debate very closely and I assume they will also follow the votes very closely. The responsibility for the package lies with them. It is therefore also up to them to discuss internally how they intend to translate the conclusions of this debate into the package. That really is a matter for them to discuss internally and on which they themselves must decide. I am prepared to declare the package of measures generally binding so that everyone in the sector is bound by it. I can discuss it, but I'm not gonna negotiate it. The design of the package lies explicitly with ZuivelNL itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u614	We shall see about the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u615	in the Grashoff/Ouwehand motion on piece No. 71 the government is asked to refrain from calling for an increase or abolition of the national phosphate production ceiling. I advise against this motion. If, through compulsory manure processing, we ensure that the manure surplus is removed from Dutch agriculture, it is not logical that this should be included in a phosphate ceiling. In fact, a phosphate ceiling is not even necessary. I would certainly like to discuss this with the European Commissions. In the motion-Ouwehand in part No. 72 the government is invited to embrace the alternative plan B of the sustainable dairy farmers. I got that plan handed over earlier today. I took a good look at that. There is a proposal for shrinkage in 2017, but not a proposal that is feasible. It is also a long-term vision of the land-based development of dairy farming. Of course, I am prepared to discuss this further, including with the authors of the plan. However, it must be clear that what is envisaged in the 2017 plan is not enforceable and therefore does not contribute to the reduction of phosphate production in 2017. That is precisely what the package of measures is needed. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 72. In the motion-Ouwehand in part No. 73 the government is asked to consider all organic holdings as land-based holdings. I think we should be clear about that. Land-based holdings are land-based holdings. If you're not ground bound, it doesn't matter whether you're biological or non-organic. It's just a question of whether you produce more manure than you can lose on your land. Of the non-ground organic farms, there are only a few, but they are not ground-bound anyway. So I'm deceiving the motion. In her motion in part No. 74 Ms Ouwehand asked the government to designate vulnerable permanent grasslands outside Natura 2000 sites. There's no need for that. All nature that is vulnerable and needs protection on the basis of European directives has been designated. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u616	I tabled this motion because the Secretary of State was unable to answer my questions. I think it would be a good idea for him to give those figures, as I asked for in my term and in an interruption. In 2013, the Secretary of State said: that's right; this is a condition; we're going to monitor. We've been three years. How are we holding up those grasslands? I think the Secretary of State should be able to say something about that before he denies the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u617	In the previous period, I had already asked Mrs Ouwehand to put her questions on paper very specifically and to submit them as parliamentary questions. Then I'll know exactly what information she's looking for and I'll answer those questions neatly. This is really too specific information to give right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u618	I can imagine that the Secretary of State would like to send a letter on this, but I expected him to ask me to hold the motion because he currently has too little information. The fact that he says that this motion is not necessary does not seem to me to be entirely correct. I'll hold the motion and the Secretary of State will inform us. Is that what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u619	I insist that it is best if Mrs Ouwehand simply submits questions to the House. I don't know why that's so complicated. She does that quite often, especially in my field. I think we can do the same about this. Then I know exactly what she wants to know, without having to guess on the basis of the stenogram. If Mrs Ouwehand asks her questions, I will give her the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u620	That's okay in itself, but I think it's kind of crazy. It is often the case that in a debate a question arises about which the cabinet says: I do not have that information in place; I will return to it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u621	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u622	But apparently that's very difficult right now. I will put it very precisely in a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u623	That helps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u624	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (34532, 34295, No. 74). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u625	In her motion in part No. 75 Ms Ouwehand asked the government to draw up an action agenda. There's a Covenant Weidegang. This will encourage various measures. That's what I do with the resources I have for grazing. Through Sustainable Dairy Chain, the sector itself is already working on better animal welfare. So I do not see the need for an action agenda at the moment. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion-Geurts/Dijkgraaf in piece No.76 is about the conversion of production rights within a mixed company. I don't want any special provision for mixed companies. I have already said in the debate that there are risks. Moreover, the bill still contains the possibility of an AMvB converting rights. I therefore also advise against this motion. The Geurts/Van Gerven motion in part No. 77 is about linking phosphate rights to ground-boundness. Phosphate rights are used to control phosphate production. The law on land-based growth guides ground-based development. Dairy farmers have to comply with both, but I think that a direct link makes implementation very complex for farmers. I don't think it's necessary either. I therefore advise against this motion. I'm coming to the Geurts c.s. motion. in piece No. 78. I promised in the debate Mrs Lodders that I would inform the Chamber every quarter about both the progress of the 2017 package and the progress of discussions with the European Commission on the Sixth Action Programme and the derogation. That seems to me to be a workable deadline. I don't think a biweekly update is workable for anyone, at least not for me. Moreover, the Court does not receive the information it wants, because it really wants information on progress. I therefore advise against this motion, but, again, I am willing to inform the Chamber every quarter. I'd be happy to say so. Then I come to the motion in part No. 79, which calls on the Government to allow the taxing of phosphate rights. I mentioned this earlier in response to an amendment by Mr Dijkgraaf which seeks the same thing, which I leave to the Chamber, as long as there is no fixed deadline in the law. As soon as the Chamber adopts this motion, I will implement it as well. I leave the judgment to the Chamber as to whether it considers it appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u626	Could the Secretary of State speak a little slower? Because then we're gonna break the record of the longest meeting. I'd love it if I could live to see that. So take it easy, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u627	I'd like to avoid that. I'm gonna get to the motion on part no. 80 on biological certification. This concerns provisions for farms which have entered into timely commitments for the complete processing of the manure surplus. They do not need sufficient land for enlargement. Organic certification is about the production method and not about whether financial commitments have been made in good time. I advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion in part No. 81. The Fertilisers Act does not allow farmers to process their own manure. And a manure processing company cannot, by definition, be a farm. I can't carry out that motion, so I'm gonna dissuade this one. In the motion in part No. 82 by Mr Van Gerven, the government is invited to conduct an independent review of future measures and legislative proposals in the light of whether land-based and grazing conditions can be brought closer. I want to encourage ground-based development, but an independent review of measures and regulations goes too far. That is why we have the debate in this Chamber. The Court checks whether the legislative proposals and measures bring closer to the direction of dairy farming desired by the Court. I also advise against this motion. Finally, Mr Geurts expressed extensive thanks, including to the support. I'd like to repeat that to him. I would also like to thank the Chamber for the fact that the debate could not only be held now, but that it could also be concluded, despite the somewhat remarkable time. I could talk for 13 minutes, but we're not gonna make the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u628	We can keep a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u629	I would like to say here that the debate has also been important. A lot of dairy farmers were waiting for clarity. This debate will help them to clarify things. I would therefore like to thank all those who have made this possible, including my own staff for whom it was not the first time this year that the night work was on this subject, but also the support of the Chamber for whom this has been a very long day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-13.u630	This brings us to the end of this debate. It was indeed a marathon session. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and Members of Parliament, but above all I would like to thank the people in the public gallery who have been following this debate all night. I would also like to thank the people who have followed the debate through a different medium, as well as the supporting officials and the messengers. We will be voting on both legislative proposals next Tuesday. Then we will also vote on the amendments and motions that have been tabled.
