ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the first term of office of the government. I would suggest that the Secretary of State should take us into the structure of his reply, so that we can see when and when we can't be interrupted. Is that possible, Mr Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u2	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u3	We do not now agree on how many interruptions I allow, but we pay attention to the cubes and give Members the opportunity to interrupt once a block has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few general words about the teacher register and its how and why. Three major themes have then emerged from the debate. The first includes everything related to control, the pre-teacher principle. A second major block is about the teacher register technique and covers all the questions that have been asked about it. What about re-registration? What about the phasering? What happens if you're no longer registered? A third big block is about the register front portal, which is really separate from the register, but it is an important instrument in this law. Finally, I have a number of questions that I have had difficulty putting forward. They then form a small block all the way to the end, varia. We all stress and often stress that the teacher is the most important link in our education, the link that determines the quality of our education for our students. This sometimes runs counter to the feeling that a lot of teachers have, namely the feeling that they are not in control, that they miss the autonomy they so need, that they miss the space to organise their work in their own, professional way and according to their own understanding. Our system does not currently provide this necessary space and teachers themselves do not take sufficient autonomy. This cannot be done individually, just as neither can you give education completely individually. The most recent report by the Education Council on professional space also indicates this. They are highly individual craftsmanship, always in larger organisations and in teams. What we are doing here today is to discuss and appreciate the collective space, the collective autonomy of the profession teachers in the education chain. Eventually, we codify it in the law. The best possible education is that there are teachers who determine with each other what the content of the course is and how the lessons can be best given, how the student's performance should be assessed, but also how responsible teachership looks. This autonomy also includes responsibility, namely that of setting up a professional standard and keeping up the training and further training through a register, which is the final part, I say. This bill clarifies that responsibility where it should lie: with the teachers. In cooperation with each other, they give substance to this. In addition, the teacher is at the helm of his own professional development. This legislative proposal is therefore a first step towards a collective form of autonomy, whereby the teacher makes his professional attitude accessible to the entire profession, to his colleagues and to teachers, and which also makes it publicly visible through the register. There are fine words by the various speakers today devoted to Teacher's Day. Teachers are the modern heroes, you might say, and rightly so. But how wonderful is it that the teachers' profession on this day is challenged to fulfil its responsibilities and to take the professional space that belongs to a strong professional group? Today we can all offer the handles for that. The fact that this is not just a matter of fact is demonstrated by the fact that these issues have been discussed for 23 years. It began in the early 1990s with the Van Es committee, which advocated more competence maintenance. After that, several other Cabinets have been working on it. In 2007 the Rinnooy Kan Committee advocated a mandatory teacher register and the organisation of the profession. Since then, however, this has not been sufficiently achieved. That is why it is so important that we are gathered here today, on Teacher's Day. I am pleased that today we are taking a significant step forward in the pursuit of a strong professional group with the discussion of the draft law on the profession of teacher. That teachers play such an important role must, of course, be able to recognise themselves in it. Quite rightly, this point has been raised. That is why the Education Cooperation has been so closely involved in this whole process. All the organisations associated with that Education Co-operation support this bill. Let's be honest, too. By now, 60,000 teachers have registered. That's almost a quarter. Education cooperation and its associated organisations have a coverage rate of about 80%. 200,000 teachers are represented by these unions and trade unions. It is not just the directors, as was suggested in the debate, who determine and control it there. They are often democratic bodies, who determine their positions in consultation and with control, sometimes even through a teacher's parliament, on the points they bring in. Maybe that's why it took so long. I'm very honest about that. It's in the coalition agreement, and most of the time you do the things in it in the first year. However, I believe it is necessary to do this together. That's why we've been working on it for a long time. I would like to congratulate everyone who has been involved. The Education Co-operative and all its supporters have fought hard for what it says. However, this bill is only the beginning. In the end, it's about the result in class. That is why I think it is crucial that every teacher should be able to make his voice heard in the discussion on professional quality. Which brings me to the first block, which is about the teacher's control.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u5	Will the Secretary of State return to support?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u6	I have just said something about this, namely that there has been an incredibly hard work to create support, that I see that the overall Education Cooperation and all its supporters support this proposal and represent a lot of teachers. I think the basis of support is something that will grow even further if you give teachers more control. So it will also be dealt with in my next block. The teacher's gonna be at the helm right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u7	This is a big point for me. It is an educational renewal and after the Parliamentary Dijsselbloem committee we agreed that this should have support. Now there's been some research. The Secretary of State has conducted an internet consultation and it is really scandalous how the figures are explained. It is suggested that half of the respondents would be positive, but if you read correctly it turns out to be a third. Half of them are negative and then another 20% are mixed. That consultation was held in early 2015. Isn't it reasonable for us to start such a big project to look into it again before the Secretary of State makes a rash start on its introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u8	I really don't think there's any need for research anymore. There have been consultations at different times. Parties are involved at different times. We have worked very closely with the Education Cooperation. As the Chamber knows, this cooperative again represents a great many professional associations. They all say: yes, we want to go through with this. That is enough for me to conclude that there is support for this. And, of course, I'm also talking to teachers. There are teachers who say: that register is not necessary for me because I am actually doing everything in it. These are the teachers who are already doing a great deal of work on continuing training and who are competent. They ask: what does this add to me personally? There are also teachers who say: I do do all of this, but I also think it is important that everyone does it, so do the register. There are also teachers who say: I am not waiting for such a register because then I have to go to school and after school. Yeah, those might be the teachers with a little compulsion and urge very well in place. And there are a lot of teachers who haven't signed up yet. We have also been investigating this. They say: such a voluntary register, which actually has no consequence whatsoever and which has no effect on what I do in my school, does not mean that much to me. That is why we now come to the conclusion that we have reached another point. This is also underlined by the Education Council. There they also say: if you really want to take the next step here, you have to go to a register of consequences and ask all teachers to register.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u9	I find this really unacceptable. We agree that we do not introduce innovations until the basis has been tested. There was a broad majority in the Chamber for that. Now the Secretary of State says, "I don't think there's any need for new research." I can only conclude one thing, namely that the Secretary of State is afraid of new research. He doesn't have the guts. If he is so convinced of the success of this proposal, he will have it examined representatively. Only then can he really stand here with a straight back and say: that register is being carried and that register is a good idea. If the Secretary of State doesn't do that, he's scared. I can't conclude anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u10	That is the conclusion that Mr Van Dijk has drawn. We have worked for a long time, together with many trade unions, many trade unions and many teachers' organisations. All kinds of tests have been done. On this basis, I come to the conclusion that today we have reached a point where I can say with a very good feeling that we must do so, because this is good for education and there is sufficient support for this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u11	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u12	The bill includes several elements of the professional chain of the professional teacher. The description of the teacher's profession makes it clear who the teacher is. This description also indicates what the professional space is for the teacher. He needs this in order to fulfil his responsibility for good education. And through registration and re-registration in the teacher register, the teacher makes visible to society that he is competent and that he continues to work on his professional development. In order to establish a strong profession, teachers should be able to express their views on these elements. When it comes to the profession of teacher, as far as I am concerned, they are always in a position of their own. Several spokesmen have said it: this must be a teacher's register of, before and by the teacher. I fully support that. To organise this, the Education Co-operative will set up the participants meeting for all registered teachers. This also calls for an amendment to the statutes of the Education Co-operation. This puts teachers in the position that they are the ones who give form and content to, for example, the register and all the elements associated with it. I call it validation of the educational offer. I'll mention the re-registration decisions. I refer to the decision whether to apply different segments in a teacher register, for example between the types of school or between different subjects that can be taught. That's really something we lay down with them. I am pleased with that step, which in my view is indispensable for the sense of ownership among teachers. So how the meeting of participants will develop is also at that meeting of teachers themselves. We must be careful that we are going to prescribe too much here from The Hague. I will wholeheartedly support this development and I will strive for teachers to set standards with each other and ultimately assess each other accordingly. The further development of the profession thus reduces the role of the government. In the run-up to that, however, careful decision-making is paramount. It concerns a profession of a quarter of a million people, for whom the entry of the register means something. That obliges us to allow the introduction to go responsibly. Judgement of re-registration in such a large group must be clear, transparent and careful. In short, it calls for a well-organised representative profession to be able to play this role in the register. The meeting of participants is the first step in this respect. It will be operational by January 2017. A lot of questions have been asked about what this control should look like and why we attach so much importance to the term "professional group." Mr Bruins asked a question about this. It is very important that we define the profession well, so that it is clear who we are talking about, who the teachers are and what rights they have. That profession includes all teachers. At national level, the Education Co-operation is considered to be their representative. But when it comes to the direct governance of the register and all the decisions that go with it, the meeting of participants is in which teachers are elected by peers, the representative and highest body. This bill gives a clear definition of the profession of teacher. We say in the law that teachers have responsibility for the education process within the framework of the school's policy, and that they have control over, among other things, the teaching material and the assessment of pupils. If that's necessary, that's the question. That is obvious, Mr Van Meenen said. I think that is quite obvious in a lot of schools. But there are also other stories, which show that teachers sometimes feel that they don't have that space. Mr Bertema cited a number of examples of this. I also hear them when I talk to teachers, often in the less good schools. Teachers are sometimes put under pressure by their management or boards to adjust the assessment of students, of students, because otherwise it is so bad on the overall picture. Sometimes they're prescribed exactly how to teach. At the moment, these teachers have nothing legally in hand to say: but that is my competence; the legislator meant that I am going to do so. That's what we'll do with this bill. We describe the profession, with the responsibilities associated with it, to ensure that there is a good balance within schools between what the teacher is about, what the school management and the board are about and what needs to be done on a team basis. A lot of these frameworks have been incorporated into this bill. Some of those things require new and lower laws and regulations. For example, there will be an AMvB on data processing and on the re-registration requirements. The great thing, however, is that the essentials, the teacher's profession, the description, the control and the professional standards, are fully included in this bill. A lot of questions have been asked that affect control. There are, for example, critical notes on the training offer. What about those festive meetings that you're obviously gonna be able to participate in and what you're gonna get points for? You shouldn't have done that, should you? Is peer review gonna be on the teacher register? And what about team activities and informal learning? I fully understand that. At the same time, I am very reluctant to say that we are going to put that in or that a meeting cannot be included. After all, it's going to be up to the teachers. That is the essence of this proposal: it will be up to the teacher to assess the quality of the offer, to accredit it, to stick to it and to say: we expect you as a teacher to do at least those 40 hours of further training and to fill in the content in a good way. Of course, I like to see all these things as peer reviews and informal learning and I also want to see shit courses deleted, but the big comment I make is that the teachers themselves are the best controllers of them. With this bill, I would like to give them that responsibility and trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u13	Are you done with this block? That sounds very disrespectful, because this is an important part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u14	I still have a few things to say about control.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u15	If you walk by it, Members of Parliament will have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u16	Control takes place not only with the register and its control by teachers. There is also a mention of a professional statute and the professional standard. Ms Straus asked how the professional status relates to the professionalisation plan in schools. The beauty of the professional status is that it is about the working arrangements at a school between teachers and school management within the framework of professional control in and around the classroom. So it describes in which gremia this is discussed. For example, there will be a teacher's council at a school. It's very good to make agreements about that. The professionalisation plan is much more a substantive plan: how do we shape and give content to professionalisation as a school? Part of it is the teacher's autonomy. That's the 40 hours he decides what to do in there. A school can offer other things on top of that and, of course, other things. That in total is covered by the professionalisation plan. What about the re-registration criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u17	Now we're going to another block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u18	Yeah, I think so, too. Was this the transition to another theme? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u19	Well... I'm not gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u20	Yeah, we're gonna have to move it a little bit, 'cause that's not how we know. Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u21	There is a very practical solution for this, namely that the Secretary of State specifically indicates when he is at the end of a block. That helps, otherwise we will always be in the starting blocks. I would like to ask the Secretary of State about further training. Of course, he is right to say that if you place that responsibility in the educational cooperative, then the responsibility for assessing the supply of training lies there. However, there is still more to be said about this. This may mean that much more cooperation is needed with mainstream educational institutions, such as teacher training, pabo and perhaps universities. Is there a training offer? Then this Secretary of State or his minister will come into the picture. I have one more question. In the example of following a "blabla-afternoon" this means that the €400 of the annual budget is exhausted, but if that budget is no more than that €400, of course you will never get a quality education offer. So I think the Secretary of State is getting away with this a little too easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u22	I would like to say more about time and space later, because they must of course be available to teachers in order to give shape and content in the end. In my eyes, there are. It is a bit different from collective agreements to collective agreements, but the collective agreements include that teachers have room for professionalisation between 60 and 80 hours. The teacher's register assumes 40 hours. That fits perfectly in there in my eyes. In practice in schools, however, you can see that professionalization is too often a closure now, a last thing you add to it. With this legislative proposal, we aim to put further training and further training in the heart of what it means to be a teacher. There is a greater importance for school boards to ensure that their teachers are given real time and work on this post-school and further training. And there's a bigger interest for teachers to do that, because if you don't, you end up risking losing your registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u23	Yes, but do I say something crazy when I say that 40 hours of training cannot be paid with €400 and that you should think more of an amount near the tenfold?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u24	We have recently given schools a lot of extra money for professionalisation; that is in the lumpsum. Social partners can make agreements on this. For example, in the secondary education collective agreement an agreement has been made on the right to draw, which is also specifically labeled. Schools will have time and money to enable teachers to work on this. I believe that this legislative proposal will allow us to take another step to ensure that this actually happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u25	I'd like to continue with this. I have spoken in my speech about the freedom of establishment of education. The Secretary of State says there's more room for professionalization next to 40 hours. Is it conceivable that a concept school, a school with an educational vision, which wants to do continuing training courses, will soon be heard with the validated training courses of the Minister or Education Co-operative: we do not think that free-school education or that one-plan education is so important and we do not; you are going to a lecture by such a gentleman from England who comes here for a lot of money to have a nice talk? I would find that a impoverishment of the training needs of many schools and also an impairment of the organization of education. Can the Secretary of State reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u26	Those two things aren't mutually exclusive. This legislative proposal is based on teachers' own responsibility and autonomy within the framework of the school. So if a teacher chooses to teach at a monessori school, then he consciously chooses it and then he also knows what that means for teaching at that school. The words "sufficient control" are very consciously chosen, because within them there must be control to be able to play your own role as a teacher. In addition, I think it is very good that teachers, apart from their school, think about their own development and that they say, apart from their supervisor: I want to do this course or I want to make time for peer review and in that way I trained myself. If the profession considers that this meets the requirements of good education and of a good supply of further education and training, the teacher deserves his points in order to ensure that he can finally be re-registered. That doesn't rule out the employer being able to demand something from that teacher. An employer can say: we also do things here in school as a team. In my view, these two can perfectly co-exist. If I look at the number of hours that have now been allocated, for example, in collective agreements for further training and further training, this would also fit in very well in terms of time and money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u27	On what basis will the Minister be in a position to validate continuing training activities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u28	The question of who is going to validate that offer is interesting. First of all, these are the teachers themselves. Those are the teachers. See how that goes in health care. There it is the profession itself that does that. In this bill it is proposed that some of these things should eventually be linked by the Minister, but they do not look at the content. The Minister will see if that process has gone very carefully. For example, if you look at the competence requirement, it appears that there is a role for the profession. That's not necessarily different now, by the way. The profession should do so as best it can, including with the support of employers and sectoral councils, for example. In the end, the Minister will check whether that process went well. It's not going to rewrite content again. That's the beauty of this bill. But that also requires us, you and me, to trust that these teachers can validate the offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u29	The Education Council recently called for a broad view of that space, so not only to look at individual knowledge and skills but also to look at improving the conditions under which teachers work, i.e. time, resources and a vision. The workload for teachers is high, so they tend to focus on their own lessons rather than looking at the school's vision with other teachers. I am therefore curious to see what progress has been made on the implementation of the motion I tabled with Mr Van Meenen with the aim of increasing the time available to the teachers. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u30	I certainly can. That is a serious motion, but it is also one that has not been carried out one-two-three. Mr Van Meenen and you have asked to sit down with the sectoral councils. I'm serious about that. I have just indicated that these 40 hours fit in my eyes, even within the current funding and the current set time in the collective agreements, but I also see, of course, that the workload is high and that there are a large number of hours in the Netherlands in which lessons are taught. So I want to take a serious look at this and come back later in the autumn with a letter which states which scenarios are conceivable. I would like to say straight away that all these scenarios have consequences, because they do not always fit in with current laws and regulations. Then it also requires a little more, for example that you accept that the number of teaching hours for students is reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u31	I understand that you will return to that in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u32	Yes. I suspect that ma'am...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u33	It's a good thing the Secretary of State will be back in the fall. During the debate, we also discussed team association competences. Do they count for the teacher register, too? I see that this works well with regard to the school leader's register. The school leaders really come up with energy from intervision meetings. Is that going to apply to the teacher register, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u34	I think so, because I know how much teachers attach importance to this and how much fun they enjoy it. I see that a lot of teachers don't compare it to a course you pay for, but they see it as something called the things you do as a teacher: call them all "what you just do with colleagues at another school." But I can't give you that guarantee, because it's the teachers who are going to decide it later. However, I would be very much in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you very much. My final question: is there anything in the way of making this count in the current bill, or can the teachers just do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u36	I can answer that question. There's nothing in the way to take this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u37	Of course, I haven't been through the entire history of this trajectory, given my seniority in the Chamber. So I stand here with some modesty. But if I read the documents correctly, I see that the Secretary of State said in 2013 that if more than half of the teachers had registered in the teacher register before 2017, the register would be made universally binding as of 1 January 2017. How does the Secretary of State appreciate his own words from 2013? How am I supposed to see it in the light of this trajectory?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u38	These were agreements we made with the trade unions. A lot of teachers are wondering how it makes sense to register in a voluntary register in which they keep a proper record of what they have done, but with no consequences at all. With the same trade unions and with the educational cooperative, we have come to the conclusion that this is one of the reasons why the number of registrations is stalled in the register. If we want to make this register serious and really want teachers to say 'I'm going to stand in it, because it does have an effect', then that calls for a next step, including for us as a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u39	I understand the reasoning. At the same time, it seems that the ruling at the time was a kind of support measure, also in view of the documents. I am now trying to see that statement in the light of the motion announced by Mr Jasper van Dijk. To what extent is there acceptance if that statement has not become true?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u40	I would almost like to put the question back to Mr Bruins. I have just said something about this support and explained how hard we have worked on it. I have said that with all these teachers' organizations, the trade unions and the trade unions of which the professors are members, we have come to the conclusion that we must now take a step further. They're all organizations. Of course, there are unbound teachers, who are not members of anything. Many teachers, four out of five, are either members of a trade union or members of a trade union. All these clubs have been involved in this proposal. They are now saying all of them: nice legislative proposals; this is what we have to do; this makes the profession better. That gives me confidence, and I hope that Mr Bruins will do the same. These are important organizations. I value their opinion very much. Let us therefore honour that confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u42	Mr President, you just asked if I had reached the end of my block. Many specific questions have been asked, but I think that most of the questions relating to control have been addressed in the interruptions. I now come to the biggest block; that is about the register itself. All the qualified teachers will be in the teacher register. If you are not yet qualified and are working on getting your diploma, you will enter the portal. I would like to say a little more about that in the next block. Teachers shall make it clear through the register that they are competent, have obtained a diploma and keep track of their competence. This is a very specific instrument. The teacher register is not an end in itself. It is the final piece of professional accountability and the professional institution of teachers. It is an important instrument, because teachers now experience that their further training is seen as non-binding. They often miss the overview: what offer is relevant to my field of expertise, what offer is really of quality and what exactly do my colleagues think about it? That is one of the reasons why the maintenance of competence is often lagging behind. The register allows teachers in their portfolio to focus on their skills. The register also includes the value-added offer so that teachers can better choose what they are doing in continuing training. Of course, the register makes clear who does not meet the requirements at the end of a registration period, including re-registration. However, it is particularly important for the period before that. Several questions have been asked about this. What happens if someone stops being registered and loses registration? What are the consequences at school? What are the consequences for the individual teacher? I'll say something about it later. The teacher register is not, in principle, a repressive instrument. It's a development tool. It is an instrument that should make it self-evident for teachers not only to have a diploma, but also to work on further education and further training. In all these other sectors, nurses, accountants, architects and so on, it goes without saying that this is happening. Someone is rarely removed from the register. That's not the problem. The problem in education is that further training and competence are not self-evident. Mr Bruins said that the BIG register was created mainly for insurers, but of course it is not. That register is there so that you and I, when we are in a hospital bed, know that the nurse who puts the needle of an infusion in our arm, has passed her diploma, is aware of the latest medications and treatment methods and knows what she's doing. I think it is only logical that this is the case in education. That's why the register is so important. Teachers do this on the basis of the standards of their own profession. Teachers draw up the assessment framework of the professionalisation offer with each other through the participants' meeting and the re-registration criteria. That's what I expect for the summer of 2017. If a teacher fails to meet the criteria after four years, an entry shall be made in the register. This can be done for the first time in 2022; it cannot be done tomorrow. We have chosen a very careful and long process for this, partly in response to the critical reaction of the Council of State, which wrote: be careful not to do this too quickly. In fact, in an earlier legislative proposal that we had submitted to the Council of State, we assumed a shorter path. That's stretched now. An entry may be made for the first time in 2022. I would add that this does not immediately mean that a teacher is not allowed to teach anymore. For example, schools have time to adapt their personal policies and teachers have time to get used to them. If, after the second re-registration period, at the end of 2026, there is another note, it will really have the consequence that a teacher loses his registration and is no longer allowed to stand in the classroom on his own. In all of this, we are aiming for a responsible implementation, with the phases set out in the Roadmap. A number of MPs have asked what happens if someone loses their registration: does that not lead to a larger teacher shortage? I don't think so. In all those other sectors that work with registers, people are rarely removed, and when someone is removed, they are often justified. The lack of teachers is not getting worse with this register; I think the situation is getting better. The register can contribute to the creation of a strong profession and that teachers talk more about their standards: what is quality and what is part of our profession? That leads to professional pride. The image of teachership is one of the factors that determine whether students and students choose to become teachers: do you want to belong to that club? One of the factors involved for young people in choosing a profession is whether they have control over their own profession. We'll take care of that with this bill. We'll increase that control with this bill. Of course, it's not a panacea. This is not the way to deal with the shortage of teachers, but it does not make it worse. It is a step in the right direction. I was very affected by Mr Grashoff's contribution. He talked about the lack of teachers. That was also a valid point in the Council of State's report, which warned us about this, because what happens when someone who loses his registration is no longer allowed to attend the classroom and only authorized to attend the classroom? This is certainly true of the subjects for which we already have deficits and perhaps for a number of subjects for which we are expecting deficits in the future. We need to do more to deal with this shortage of teachers. I fully agree with Mr Grashoff. He dared me to make a good plan for that. I think we're already doing a few things, but there can be a little bit more on top of it. So I'm very happy to accept that challenge. I promise to come to the Chamber with the employers' sectors, the trade unions, the Education Co-operation and also with the teacher training programmes, together with the Minister, with a plan on what we will all have to do in the coming years to deal with this shortage of teachers. It's complicated. I believe that it can be attractive if we give teachers a little more time and that this also facilitates the choice to become a teacher. In the short term, however, this will increase the shortage of teachers. It's not gonna fix it. That's where you see the tension. You can see that in a number of other areas as well. I think, for example, that raising the demands of teacher training is a very good step. If you really want to be a teacher, it must be a difficult education. You really have to do something for that. We want the best students for that. The Minister has recently increased the demands for the pabo. That is good in the long term, but it has a negative effect in the short term. We need to see what we can do with that and how we can adjust it. Now let's get this all together to see what we can do in the long term to ensure that there will be teachers with competence in all schools in five, in 10 or in 25 years' time. We need to make sure we don't run out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u43	Are you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u44	Actually, I was just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u45	I shall give Mr Van Meenen the opportunity to interrupt. Otherwise it's a bit of a one-way street. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u46	I really wanted to interrupt, because the Secretary of State ended up in some kind of flow and started talking very enthusiastically about doctors, nurses, architects, notaries, lawyers and so on. These are all professional groups in which it is self-evident. Then he said passionately: and in education it is not self-evident. Retraining is not self-evident, a competence is not self-evident. That is exactly what I think this is all about. Retraining, lack of time, power, lack of teachers, these are the things that several speakers and also the Council of State point out. The Council of State says: only when that is in order, as it was all in order with those other professions... There were no unauthorized doctors in the Netherlands. At least I didn't run into them. I'll put it another way: if I go to the doctor, I'm not going to check the BIG register first. Then I'm assuming there's someone with a degree. If we enter this register now, you're not at all sure that the teacher who teaches your children is competent, whereas it's been in the law for centuries, so to speak. Mr Bishop pointed that out. The crucial question is: is it justified to set up a teacher register at the moment, or should we first ensure that solutions are met for both the time and space for training and the shortage of teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u47	I don't think we should wait for that. We've been talking about this for 23 years. There's a big stack of reports. The Education Council says that it has been tried voluntarily, but if it does not have consequences, if it does not mean anything, a voluntary register will not fly; we must now take this step. I would like to add two things. The teacher register will not have final consequences until 2026. We're talking about nine years. This means that there really is time to take a number of steps carefully. At the same time, we must not sit still. We need to work to overcome teacher shortages, we need to do more to tackle incompetence. I have recently sent the Chamber an extensive letter on this matter. However, we have not yet reached a stage where we can discuss this in detail in this Chamber. There are plans to ensure a better link between teacher training and school competences. But one of the things that is missing now is a closing system. Mr Rog referred to the caravan of teachers travelling around who were hopping from one school to another without authority. We have no idea at all, but with this bill it will become visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u48	That's exactly what I'm afraid of. Of course, for the umpteenth time, there are fine words about combating the shortage of teachers. We are warned of giving extra time, because that might make the shortage of teachers even bigger. Anyway, my biggest fear is that we are putting the things that need to be done on the long track, because it is expected that the teacher register will solve them. That fear will be reinforced by me when I hear the Secretary of State ask who wants to be a teacher. I fear that people will answer: I, because I want to belong to that club of that register! I hope that there are no people in the Netherlands who... I see that Mr Beertema is already offering himself. His place on the list is apparently known by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u49	Will there be elections soon, Mr Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u50	It's gonna be quite a job for Mr. Beertema to sign up. I hope that there are no people in the Netherlands who want to be a teacher because there is a teacher's register. That's my concern. This concern is now also raised by the Secretary of State when he says that the shortage of teachers is resolved by the arrival of this register. Mr President, you know what I mean, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u51	Sure. I think the Secretary of State understands what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr Van Meenen is now really expressing a caricature of what I have just said. After all, I made it very clear that the register is not an end in itself. It is an instrument to give teachers more control, to put them more at the wheel and to let many more things decide for themselves within their profession and within their school, for example describing and legally anchoring control. I believe that all these measures will lead to a stronger professional group and thus a greater professional pride. I think young people find it attractive to belong to a profession that is self-conscious and has ownership and professional autonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u53	I also notice that the Secretary of State speaks above average passionately about this law. For a moment, I thought it was because he might be insecure about the functioning of this law. But maybe it's just because he drank an energy drink this morning; it could be. But let me go with him. Let's see if this law could help combat unauthorized teachers. After all, I do not quite see that yet. The Council of State is also critical of this. A qualified teacher may lose his authority through the register, while at the same time the school board shall have the opportunity to appoint unauthorized teachers. How is the Secretary of State going to prevent that school board from always appointing unauthorized teachers? Shouldn't we fight that one time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u54	I fully agree with Mr Van Dijk that we must combat this. But it's gonna go wrong on the next point. There are a number of exceptions in the law. In my view, these are justified exceptions for teachers who have not yet got their papers. They do not yet have a diploma and are therefore not yet competent, but they can get to work. An example of this is teachers in training. That's not such a crazy example, because we also know doctors in health care. The only problem is that in education, and also in law, there is a time limit attached to it. You have to get that piece of paper, that diploma, within two years, but if there are very good reasons, it can be extended for another two years. However, it is intended to take place within four years. But the view of that is completely lacking. That is exactly why the register portal is so important. In the letter from the AOb that was also underlined razor sharp. A teacher in training cannot yet be listed in the register, because he is not yet competent, but in the run-up to an entry in the register he is entered in the register portal. Then he has to get his diploma as soon as possible. Then there's a ticker running. At some point, we'll see if he graduated. After two years or in exceptional situations after four years, it can either go in two directions: either you have passed your diploma and then you become a register teacher I prefer to see that or you haven't made it. Then as far as I'm concerned, you shouldn't be in class anymore. This is the system proposed by this bill. Three years ago, we had a fantastic debate on the budget. Then Mr Van Dijk raised this very point, and that led me to think. That is why I entered into discussions with the trade unions and with the Education Cooperation Committee. The proposal before us today is about this. That is why I hope for enthusiasm, including from the Socialist Party, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u55	This is a pretty rhetorical answer, isn't it? Actually, I can't stand it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u56	There you go!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u57	I understand that law is coming because of me. It shouldn't get weirder. The Secretary of State is quite right; this is a big problem. I've talked about it a lot, including the Secretary of State, but it's a little different from the register. The question is whether the register and the portal will solve the problem of competence. My impression is that the law is already there. You can't stand in front of the classroom unauthorized, and that rule needs to maintain the inspection. We don't need this law for that. I would like to comment on that. When will we get the impact on the MBO? That's where the number of unauthorized teachers goes all the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u58	A few questions have been asked about the MBO. That point is a bit later in my story. I shall come back to that in detail later. In particular, I have sent the Chamber a very comprehensive plan of action on secondary education. That's about dealing with the lack of competence. It requires different things, because there are different causes of lack of competence. We were just discussing one of the problems. The register does not solve that problem, because there are already qualified teachers in the register. The register ensures that these teachers also continue to work on their skills. The portal is indeed a means, an instrument, to better identify those who are still unauthorized. If the person concerned has a good reason for doing so, for example because he is still in training, he can stand in front of the classroom, but then he must ensure that he gets his diploma within the time. The register also shows those who do not. That's a point of reference for the inspection to intervene. In fact, you can say to driving: we want only people in front of the classroom who are in the register or in the front portal, and no others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u59	Please continue, as I ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u60	This also appeals to Mr Bishop's question as to whether it meets the requirements. In fact, we have the requirement of competence and the requirement of competence files. We are now proposing to replace the competence files with something else. I don't think that's wrong either. The competence files are not made sufficient. Many school boards do not have these files or to an insufficient extent. In my view, it is too much for the employer. I think skill maintenance is something of your own, too. That's what you're gonna want. That's why we're making this move. To Mr Bishop as the initiator of his own legislative proposal, I would like to say that it states very clearly that inspection supervision, the check on the adequacy requirements, is risk-driven. The inspection does not come to every school every day or every year, while hiring new people is something that happens regularly. It is therefore appropriate to place greater responsibility on the professional group itself in addition to the inspection supervision, which is risk-driven. Mr Van Meenen asked whether the register would not lead to a great deal of extra bureaucracy. Of course, a registration is an administrative act. We can't avoid that, all of us. However, I would like to invite you to take a look at the register. Then look at what it takes to register. You have to sign up once. You'll do that in two minutes. At the moment, the diplomas still have to be uploaded, but what we are proposing is that this goes automatically, according to the Tax Administration model, where the whole story is already ready and you just have to check that that is right. The only thing we are asking for is to keep up with the supply of continuing training. That's two minutes' work, but the proceeds are much bigger than that. It is becoming obvious that everyone is doing further training. Teachers will be given a stronger position in their schools and will be given a stronger right to such further training and further training. Eventually, this leads to more self-organisation and a stronger professional group, in which the teachers themselves determine the conditions that belong to the profession, in terms of quality requirements, standards, educational supply and re-registration. Questions have been asked about how this relates to the school itself. These are two separate responsibilities. With this bill, we are going for a stronger profession, which is self-criticism and sets itself standards. I think it is almost not going to happen, but the ultimate consequence may be that one loses one's registration. This does not mean that there are not regular talks in a school about functioning or that there is no policy cycle, and you name it all. Those two things are two separate responsibilities. We have, of course, also discussed this with the sectoral councils. A number of Members asked for a response because why are they so critical? That's exactly where he is at this fundamental point. The employers' organisations see the register as the final piece of their personnel policy, and we simply did not agree on it, because I see it fundamentally differently. I see the teacher register as a final piece of the teacher's own professionalism and responsibility. Of course you talk about that in school, but this bill really wants to put the teachers in position. I will deal with the issue of the unauthorized in the MBO. Mr Van Dijk also asked a question about small appointments. I also believe that Mr Rog did that when he talked about binding contracts. Mrs Straus asked about the 0.2 nomination. The 0,2 designation is now regarded as a kind of lower limit for the voluntary register. This bill deletes that and assumes that everyone standing in front of the classroom is qualified or registered or in the process of registration and is therefore in the front portal. The exception is the guest lecturers, but that is very limited by law. I believe it has been set at four hours a week for up to 40 weeks a year. In the case of small appointments, so even if you work two days a week, we expect you as a teacher to be fully qualified and working on your registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u61	Secretary of State, you really need to speed up the response in the remaining cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u62	Mr President, I suspect that I am already quite a bit upset. I will deal briefly with a few very specific questions, otherwise they will come back in the second term. Mr Van Dijk asked about the third degree teachers. This bill does not deal with those matters of competence. The rules are about designation and competence. Mr Van Dijk's questions are about designation and competence, but that is not what the legislative proposal is about. Nor is it a matter of transitional rights in relation to jurisdiction. There are a number of things that need to be repaired in that respect. For example, Mr Van Meenen has also mentioned the pabo'ers in the vmbo. I have dealt extensively with unauthorized persons in the plan of action. I think that you should convert that with a conversion table or that you should make sure that those people can still get their authority with speeded-up training. Mr Rog asked two specific questions. What about Ib'ers? Are they excluded from teaching duties? The answer is no, but if an ib'er wants to be a teacher, he must be competent to do so and work on his further training. All over the board we try to put the same measure for that. It is up to the school authorities and teachers to decide whether the statement of behaviour should be updated periodically. I can imagine that the profession will take it up in the long term, but I repeat: this too is something that is for the profession itself. This is of course without prejudice to the fact that we, as legislators, can make demands on education. If this really is a problem, we could take it up as legislators for once. That is the system of the register. Mrs. Straus asked what would happen if you missed your re-registration. I hope, of course, that this does not happen or as little as possible. That has an ultimate consequence in 2026. The board of the teacher register must set out the criteria that you have to meet in order to register again. That is the column of the profession, the system of which this law is concerned. There is also an employment law side. I can very well imagine the social partners making agreements on this at the collective bargaining table. There is always the question of culpability. If someone didn't get his registration because he threw the hat at it, I can imagine that would be a reason for dismissal. But if you didn't get your registration because your employer didn't allow you to do that, you have a completely different case. That will be very much on the table there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u63	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer. I had asked a follow-up question. What happens to the school's quality assessment if one or more teachers fail to re-register? Several colleagues argue that the inspection should be carried out with greater emphasis on the competence of teachers. This will also play a role in this whole process. But what happens if one or more teachers fail to re-register for the jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u64	The great advantage is that with the register and the front portal, the insight of the inspection becomes much greater than it is now, which makes it easier to maintain. The inspection will certainly adapt its supervisory frameworks to this law. Mrs. Straus asks what you do at a school that has an excessive number of teachers who don't re-register. I agree with her that something crazy is going on. At this point, the inspection will ask what is going on there and whether there is a good staff policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u65	Of course, that can work both ways. It is possible that the school has not sufficiently enabled the teachers to re-register. Then the inspection should particularly appeal to the school. On the other hand, it is possible that the school did offer the opportunity, but teachers did not make sufficient efforts to re-register. Can the fact that a single teacher who deliberately does not have re-registration in order ultimately affect the quality of the whole school?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u66	This is a question of impact which I cannot yet give a very definitive answer to. I'll have to discuss that with the inspection. It's nice that the inspection in the renewed surveillance is getting a bit off the checklists. Such a list means that if you have so many non-registrations and such, it automatically leads to a conclusion. I think it should be a reason for a conversation. If a school can give good reasons for that, I have some very bad teachers who have thrown the hat at it and therefore did not get the re-registration; therefore perhaps I would like to fire them. I can imagine that the inspection will say: we don't think that is such a bad story at all. But if all these teachers say they don't have time at all, they're totally overworked and haven't had any support from their board, then I imagine the inspection says, "Hey, how can this happen?" In a modern vision of teamwork, in which, in addition to teaching, there should be room for professionalisation, this should not happen. We need to get this conversation going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u67	Please continue. At least, how far along are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u68	I'm almost at the end of my block. Mr Grashoff has asked a question about disciplinary law. This bill does not rule that out, but does not include it now. Disciplinary law has very far-reaching consequences. We could think about this when this bill has the effects that we are aiming for, namely a standard and a strong profession that will be able to do so in ten years' time. What I'm trying to do is to take a very carefully multi-annual trajectory here. We're first doing the things that we think they can handle now over that nine-year period we're choosing. Perhaps there will be a point where we say that a next step can be taken. Mr Beertema asked a question about school leaders. They have their own registration. I find it interesting to think about a next step at some point. It just has to be independent of teachers. It's really a separate profession. Especially in the vo it is often separated. In the pot you sometimes see a little more overlap. The difference is that teachers have authority. You can have a degree with which you can stand in front of the classroom. Of course, that's different for school leaders. Such a register takes into account not so much the competence as the maintenance of competence. Mr Bishop asked a question about higher education. That also has to do with a difference in distance. At the po, vo and mbo our steering is a bit more intense. This also has to do with the compulsory education and the responsibility of the government in this area. I'd say let's start here. Then I go to my last block, namely the register front portal. I am only going back to what I referred to in my introduction. This bill should contribute to ensuring that every student receives the best possible education. This requires each teacher to work on his or her professional quality. There are two possibilities for this. The first is that as a qualified teacher you keep track of your profession. We just talked about that. The second is that you have chosen a job as a teacher and are working on obtaining your authority as soon as possible. Let me be clear: Mr Rog asked that the starting point for me is that 100% of teachers are competent. As soon as possible, as far as I'm concerned, in 2017. This register will help with that, but not just that. This also applies to all other measures contained in the plan of action to combat lack of competence. However, the law does allow for a number of exceptions with regard to jurisdiction. This concerns teachers in training and, for example, side-intromers, who of course we also desperately need in VMBO and MBO. The register front portal actually does two things. On the one hand, it offers the perspective of working towards registration, where it is clear from the outset that people join a profession in which professional development is an important quality standard. On the other hand, the lack of clarity about what the teacher needs to get his authority and the time-limit that goes with it, which is often so much fuss about now. By giving a timely signal to the teacher and the school board, it can no longer be something that slips through, as is the case now. Specific questions have been asked about side-intromers, which are so important for education. Through the register, teachers show that they are competent and maintain their profession. In order to enter the register, you must be authorized. In the MBO, a significant group of teachers come from professional practice. Those are the side-instromers. They are of great importance for vocational training, because they take specific experience and current experience from the company and the industry to these training courses. This knowledge and expertise from practice make the MBO so special. That is something the Minister is incredibly attached to. These side-instromers may be appointed and qualified as lecturers if they obtain their teaching-eductic certificate. If they have achieved this, they can register directly in the teacher register, because then they are competent. They are still in training for that certificate, based on the draft law in the register portal. They are therefore not yet competent and during their training they can only be appointed as a teacher. If they have the certificate, they can still register in the teacher register. It is important, however, to mention that in March of this year the Education Cooperation Council and the MBO Council agreed to strengthen the position of MBOs in training. By laying down more detailed requirements for the professional competence and the professional commitment of the side-intromers, which lead to the definition of competence in the MBO, a full registration can be achieved for these teachers. The Minister regards this as an excellent initiative by both sides, which she wholeheartedly supports. In her letter of 9 May last. on the competence of MBO teachers, it informed the Chamber on this and announced that it would further develop these agreements in consultation with the Education Co-operation and the MBO Council. We are currently working hard on this. It is its commitment to work together with the Education Co-operation and the MBO Council to develop the further requirements in the short term. It is the aim to have these side-intromers flow into the teacher register as from 1 August 2018. That is one year after the teacher register entered into force, but in the eyes of the minister that is not acceptable. The teacher register is being introduced in stages. The first year there is no re-registration and there are no consequences yet for re-registration in the teacher register or in the register portal, except for its visibility. I am also looking in the direction of Mr Van Dijk. This is the issue of that competence and the adaptation of that competence. I believe that this is an answer to his question in this area. I come to my last block, namely the block of varia. That won't take much time. Mr Rog asked about the ICT systems. It is, of course, important that this happens. Mr Elias was our chairman this morning. The Education Co-operation and the Ministry develop that ICT system in joint commissioning and then it is placed at the execution organisation. All these tests that we do, they go through those important process steps. Our intention is to make it as open and transparent as possible for teachers. The available training offer must be clear. We also want to use the system of the Tax Administration when registering. That does not yet work, I would like to make it quite clear. However, it could be operational from 1 January, so that for those who want to register, a lot is already filled out. Mr Bertema asked a question about the Teacher Advisory Council. He asked what happened there and he said he heard some critical noises. The Teacher Advisory Council is, of course, part of the Education Cooperation. The Advisory Council has been informed about the preparation of the legislative proposal and an open debate has always taken place. But I also think it is important that the Council is very closely involved in the further development and implementation plans. I will draw this to the attention of the Education Cooperation Committee once again. This brings me to the end of my speech. I may have saved the most important question until the last. That question was asked by Mr Bruins. He asked when this law actually passed. This law has been successful if we have worked towards a stronger professional group in about five years' time and taken significant steps to that end, if the professional group has more ownership of further education and further training, if there is more control and autonomy for teachers in schools, if there is a professional dialogue within the professional group itself on the standards that are important and on the training offer that goes with it, and if there is also an ultimate consequence for teachers who do not want to meet it. However, there must also be a professional dialogue between a strong, self-critical and self-conscious group of teachers and school management, board and teams. In the end, you do education together in a school. Good education is teamwork and all those parties, boards, school leaders, but also teachers play a very important role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u69	With this we have arrived at the second term of office. Speaking time is one third of the first-term speaking time. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Grashoff. He has three minutes' speaking time. This applies to most of the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u70	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. He has convinced me, in a way, at the point of the portal. That was an important point for me. I can see, however, that in the second term of the Secretary of State, Mr Rog, a number of amendments may be passed, including an amended amendment by Mr Rog. I'm still very interested in that. It is possible that, when it comes to assigning responsibilities to schools, this could be an advantage. However, this was only a first look. I'm very curious to know what the Secretary of State thinks about that. At least I'd like one thing. The Secretary of State has already said something about this, but I had initially announced that I would, in any event, submit a motion to the Chamber on this point, because I think this is very important. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sector organisations and research warn of a growing shortage of teachers and that many schools are already being hampered by this;]] [[Whereas the influx of pabo students has been almost halved, seriously increasing the problem of the shortage of teachers;]] [[considers that reducing the shortage of teachers is essential for the success of the teacher register, which also aims to reduce the lack of competence of teachers;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with an ambitious plan to address the shortage of teachers in all educational sectors, with explicit attention to pay and career prospects, training structure, quality of training and reducing the workload of teachers;]] [[calls on the Government to send this plan of approach to teacher shortage to the Chamber before 1 February 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34458-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u71	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his enthusiastic and passionate answer to my questions. I support the objectives of the teacher register, but I still have doubts about the timing and design, especially in the light of the advice of the Council of State. However, I will take everything I have heard with me to my group. I have two motions. My first motion concerns privacy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the safeguards in the draft law to protect the teacher's privacy still need to be developed, e.g. on what grounds teachers can have certain data protected;]] [[Whereas the teacher register will be a publicly searchable register;]] [[considers that the protection of teachers' personal data should be well protected;]] [[noting that the Education Co-operation is considered as representative of the teacher profession;]] [[calls on the Government, when introducing the compulsory teacher register, to provide the professional representative with a framework to ensure teacher privacy by limiting searchable data to the level of aggregation of schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in secondary education, the shortage of teachers in deficit subjects such as chemistry and physics is growing in the coming years;]] [[Whereas it is very valuable for the (preparatory) vocational education and training of people with practical experience in the field of occupation;]] [[Considers that the requirement of a recognised educational certificate (PDG) or the requirement to complete teacher training within four years can provide good guarantees to include side-intromers directly in the teacher register;]] [[noting that the Education Co-operation is considered as representative of the teacher profession;]] [[calls on the Government, the representative of the profession, to provide a framework for setting up the rules on the teacher register in such a way as not to create obstacles to the recruitment of side-intromers, practitioners and professionals, in particular in the MBO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34458-14]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34458-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mr. Chairman. In my view, we agree on one thing, namely that we want a strong working group for teachers in terms of content. However, we also agree that it still needs to grow. As far as the VVD is concerned, this bill is only a start. It is a framework, but its further implementation is crucial. This debate with all our questions and all the answers from the Secretary of State is also part of the legal process. This is the framework that I would like to give to the profession for the further implementation of the teacher register. Now there is another thing that we think is important. This is not only from, for and by teachers, but there must also be a good balance between teachers on the one hand and school on the other. I have a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Education Co-operative is the representative body of the teachers' professional group which manages and organises the teacher register;]] [[Whereas the teacher register is of, for and by teachers;]] [[Whereas the Education Co-operation now consists of five member organisations and individual teachers who, through the Teacher Advisory Council, have a say in the policy of Education Co-operation;]] [[Considers that in the future the Education Co-operation should develop towards a broad-based professional organisation of teachers who maintain good contacts with workers' and employers' organisations;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the Education Cooperation to set up the Association in the long term in such a way that individual teachers can become members of the Association, the Board is elected by them and thus directly participates in the policy of Education Cooperation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Straus, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34458-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u73	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Secretary of State for his passionate defence of the bill. My group has taken a critical look at this bill. The criticism also focuses to a large extent on the front portal. I have tabled an amendment to remove that portal from the law. I heard what the Secretary of State said about the added value it could have. With an amended amendment, I have sought to stop the unauthorized caravan moving from school to school. This can no longer be an incentive for schools to employ people temporarily and if they go to another school to hire another unauthorized person. I refer briefly to this amendment because I would also like to make two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u74	You are referring to the Amendment No 1 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u75	Yeah, that's number 12. I shall now read out two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the process of re-registration of a teacher in the teacher register, the maintenance of competence is central;]] [[Whereas teachers are now required to present an up-to-date statement of behaviour (vog) only at the time of the first appointment to a competent authority;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the requirements for re-registration a new declaration of conduct,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34458-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u76	My second motion deals with continuing training activities and the concept schools, i.e. schools working from a particular pedagogical and teaching point of view. I would like to ensure that this is not judged by the entire profession, but by the professional group of these concept schools such as jenaplan schools, dalton schools, free schools, etc. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that responsibility for an adequate supply of training will lie with the professional group, both in terms of individual training objectives and team training objectives, and in terms of educational objectives in relation to school and education policies;]] [[having also noted that the legislative proposal leaves it ultimately for the Minister to establish criteria and rules for validation of the training offer;]] [[Whereas this may affect the freedom of establishment of education;]] [[invites the Government to carry out training activities aimed at developing or maintaining the pedagogical-eductic vision of (concept) schools only by the relevant teachers' teams of these schools instead of having the entire profession evaluated and thus automatically validated by the Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog, Mr Bishop and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34458-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mr. Chairman. The expectations about the functioning of the teacher register vary considerably. For example, the Secretary of State thinks that there are a lot of people in the Netherlands who think: now I'm going to be a teacher, because I want to be part of that club with that register. I don't think so. The key point in the debate has been for me the discrepancy between, on the one hand, what needs to be done to overcome the shortage of teachers and, on the other hand, ensuring that teachers are placed in a position to actually work on their further training, to reduce the workload and so on. The question is whether this should be done before a register can be created, or whether there should be a register because this can help to solve those things. My conclusion after this debate is that it is not possible for us to start this register without these conditions being met. That is clearly what the Council of State is telling us. That is why I tabled a motion with Mr Bishop. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a teacher register may lead to a strengthening of the profession and greater attention to further training, but at present the conditions of entry, workload and training are insufficient and there is no prospect of improvement;]] [[Whereas the teacher register itself will not improve inflow, workload and training;]] [[Calls on the Government to include the development of the teacher register in a broad improvement programme aimed at strengthening the profession in, inter alia, training and examination, combating the teacher's shortage and reducing the working pressure of the teacher by reducing teaching tasks and reducing the class size;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow the draft law to enter into force until after discussion of the improvement programme in the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Meenen and Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34458-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mr. Chairman. The intention of this bill is good. No misunderstanding. The discussion is about the means and timing. The Council of State is severely critical. He says: work better first, then enter only. In addition, there is the question of lack of competence. The register may provide more insight, but nothing will happen to the number of unauthorized persons. This may even increase if qualified teachers are thrown out of the register. That is why the Council of State says that this is unworkable and disproportionate. Major Criticism Then there's the support. What's going on here, I really think it's crazy. The Secretary of State investigated the beginning of last year. The result is that 30% is positive, 20% is neutral and 50% is negative. Conclusion: there is no support for the register. Now I ask for that in the debate, and then the Secretary of State says "I think there is support." That answer is anything but scientific. If the Secretary of State takes the conclusions of the Dijsselbloem Commission seriously, what he says he is doing, then I tell him: carry out a serious investigation. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas support for teachers is essential for the successful introduction of the Teacher Register;]] [[Whereas only if there is sufficient support can it be effectively stated that this register is "from, for and by" teachers;]] [[calls on the government to carry out a short-term measurement of support for teachers and to involve the results of this measurement in follow-up steps,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34458-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u79	The people who are going to vote against this motion are not only afraid of the results of the investigation, but are also throwing the conclusions of the Dijsselbloem Committee into the trash can and that is a farce.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr. Chairman. What have we enjoyed again from Mr Van Dijk! I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the proper response and the comprehensive explanation. The SP stresses that the establishment of the register, of the statute, is an educational renewal. I'll fight that. This is not a renewal; this is the formalization of the teacher's central position. It is a formalisation which, in our opinion, is twenty years too late. It is a strengthening of the position of the teacher, who will also make the directors and managers a bit more modest, perhaps even more serving at the heart of education. Mr Van Dijk must appeal to that. Indeed, the Secretary of State is right about the shortage of teachers. If the register does anything, it will reduce the shortage of teachers, because the profession becomes more challenging. I can assure you of that. The register isn't finished. I told you. This will be a gremium that needs to be adjusted very often. That's the way it's supposed to be. I would like to make a comment on the two registers, for the school leaders and the Deputy School Leaders, who are now in the hands of the social partners. I just don't like the look of it. There has been too great a distinction between school leaders and teachers for a very long time. We now have a beautiful law with a beautiful register. As far as I am concerned, they all come under one roof, despite the fact that there are only skills requirements for school leaders and therefore no competence requirements. There will therefore have to be an adapted system, but this centralization is simply beautiful. Teachers and school leaders eventually share the same education mission. So they are inextricably linked, and that is what I want to see expressed. They are connected in a hug that is sometimes loving and sometimes less loving, but it is. To achieve this, there is another amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u81	Mr. Chairman. It is so wonderful that on this day, the Teacher's Day, we are taking such a beautiful, big step. There's nothing better than standing in front of the classroom. I take a deep bow to all those who take care of our children and grandchildren on a daily basis and ensure that every child is given maximum opportunities in education. The teacher's register is really one of them. It's something of, for and by the teachers. It is there to strengthen the position of teachers, to reduce the number of unauthorized persons and to ensure, broaden and deepen the ongoing professionalisation. I love the step that is being taken today, but not only do teachers stand in front of the classroom. There are also a lot of other people in the classroom, such as the class assistants, the technical teaching assistants and a number of other people. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the teacher register is an important step in the further positioning and professionalisation of the teacher profession;]] [[Whereas professionalisation and maintenance of competence are also important for the other occupational groups involved in the primary education process, such as technical teaching assistants and instructors;]] [[Whereas the National Agreement on Education provides for the establishment of a qualification dossier for instructors and teaching assistants in the MBO in which teaching and teaching requirements are designated and thus entered in a separate "room" in the register;]] [[noting that no qualification dossier has yet been drawn up for instructors and technical teaching assistants in primary and secondary education and are therefore not included in the register;]] [[invites the Government, together with the professional group, to develop a qualification dossier for instructors and technical teaching assistants and to examine how, if they meet the qualification requirements, they can be entered in a separate chamber in the register,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34458-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u82	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his glowing speech. The answer was not entirely satisfactory, but he will be aware of that. I would have liked to have heard a little more of the questions once in a while, which might have been enlightening, but the President did not give much room for that, despite the kindness with which she leads the meetings. I remain critical of this proposal. Let me summarize my objections. The very justified criticism of the Council of State has not been responded to, and far too little justice has been done. That is why I have a strong tendency to advise my group to vote against this proposal. The SGP is not a party calling for civil disobedience. I see Mr Van Dijk shooting up; he thinks he has a supporter, because it only saves one letter between SP and SGP. The SP sometimes calls for civil disobedience, but the SGP tends to warn against civil disobedience. We do not encourage them, but warn against them. I am afraid that it will be possible for this to happen. I am afraid that the support for the teacher register is far too optimistic. Despite the fact that I am going to give a negative vote to my group, I have an amendment (34458), No. 10) submitted. That sounds a little weird, but that has to do with our constitutional genes. There is a rather strange situation in the legislative proposal: you can be competent without complying with the criteria of the teacher register. I ask the Secretary of State to look closely at this amendment from a state-law point of view, regardless of the voting behaviour of the SGP Group. If the bill and the amendment are adopted, the law is at least a little less problematic than it would otherwise be. I'd like to leave it at that. I've made my warning voice heard enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u83	Chairman! You have urged me to make pace. That's why I'm starting the motions right away. I am in principle very positive about the motion on item No. 13 by Mr Grashoff and Mrs Ypma. I want to do that, too. I do not think the time that Mr Grashoff gives me is real if we want to make a serious plan for this and talk to all those parties. Maybe I can tell Mr Grashoff that I'm going to do my utmost to make it to February, but that I hope for some coulance if that doesn't work? It's more important to make a good plan of it than to run something fast. If he agrees, I can give a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u84	It is not a matter of two weeks, but there is another important date, namely the 15th of March. Then we don't talk about anything anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u85	I understand that, too. At the same time, there is also a recess that starts earlier than 15 March. It's going in the middle of February somewhere. So it all looks very closely. After that, however, the cabinet is not immediately gone. I'm sure this period is going to work. I take that seriously and feel it is something I personally owe to you. Or there's a court letter around that time. I like that, too. In it, I can let you know what we've done until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u86	I'm a little less in favour of that last proposal. I'd rather say "February 15th." Then it's for the election recess. The Secretary of State understands that, of course, I understand that this period of government will not happen to such a plan anymore, but it is all the more relevant as a statement for a subsequent period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u87	You're gonna change the motion? You're changing the date to February 15th?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u88	I'm changing the date in the motion to February 15th.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u89	The Grashoff/Ypma motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sector organisations and research warn of a growing shortage of teachers and that many schools are already being hampered by this;]] [[Whereas the influx of pabo students has been almost halved, seriously increasing the problem of the shortage of teachers;]] [[considers that reducing the shortage of teachers is essential for the success of the teacher register, which also aims to reduce the lack of competence of teachers;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with an ambitious plan to address the shortage of teachers in all educational sectors, with explicit attention to pay and career prospects, training structure, quality of training and reducing the workload of teachers;]] [[calls on the Government to send this plan of approach to teacher shortage to the Chamber by 15 February,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 13 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u90	That too is a very ambitious timetable. I promise Mr Grashoff that I will do my utmost to make it. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 14, because it's not just about insight at school level. I also believe that parents and students have the right to know if a teacher is indeed registered. It's not with a whole lot of private data behind it, but just the name, the school and for which course the teacher is registered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u91	I actually mean to set it up as the BIG register has been introduced. It is not traceable to the person's workplace. That's my concern that the school and the name of the teacher would be combined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u92	I really don't see why parents and students shouldn't know whether or not a teacher is registered at their school. In addition, there is now also case law of the Council of State on a case relating to the Luzac College. Parents have asked for it and have been agreed. So I also think there is a legal basis for this. I can advise more positively on the motion in part No. 15. I think that is a good and right point from Mr Bruins. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The same applies to the motion by Mrs Straus, Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Ypma in respect of item No. 16 on the battle that education cooperation could make towards greater democratisation. I'm just gonna say it in my own words. On that motion, too, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then there is a motion from Mr Rog to item No. 17. I'm going to dissuade that motion. That has to do with the following. If you look at the register, it's really about maintaining skills. I think the dog is meant for something else. So I don't think they fit in right away. You should also look at exactly what this requires in terms of costs and burdens towards individual pupils and towards schools. At the same time, I share Mr Rog's concern. We want to know that it's all right with men and women in front of the classroom. I would like to make the following commitment, after which Mr Rog can decide to hold or withdraw his motion. I would like to sit down with the social partners and the inspection to see whether the current system of statements on behaviour can be improved, also in the light of a number of issues that have recently been played out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u93	I'm holding my motion. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment. I ask him to set a deadline so that the Chamber knows when it will be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u94	I would ask Mr Rog to give me a month or three. It is a busy period at the moment, because all budgets have to be dealt with. But it really comes up; it should work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u95	At the request of Mr Rog, I propose his motion (34458, No. 17). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u96	The motion-Rog c.s. in piece No. 18 is interesting. This motion will test whether the cabinet really wants to give the profession the confidence. If that's the request, I'd advise against the motion. The authors are asking me to dedicate something to those who are about to set up the register. I actually think that we should leave that to the profession itself. I therefore advise against this motion, but I would like to add a number of things. Whatever the petitioners are asking for can be carried out. There's no obstacle to doing that. I am also prepared to ask the Education Cooperation and the Meeting of Participants to take a serious look at this. At least we have brought it to their attention. That should be enough to set it up at least. However, we will leave the freedom and autonomy that are in line with the new vision of the profession intact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u97	The Secretary of State, with his appreciation, has ensured that I also hold this motion. I think it's okay if this is brought to the attention of the public. I want to ensure that no judgement is made on the pedagogical-eductic vision of schools by others who do not support that pedagogical-eductic vision. That is the point I wanted to make with this motion. I understand that the Secretary of State is discussing this with the Education Cooperation Committee. I would very much appreciate it if the Chamber could at some point be reconnected in the way in which decisions are taken at the meeting of participants. After all, I believe that this is a crucial element, including for the freedom of establishment that we have already discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u98	I have informed the Chamber that I will report to her periodically on progress. I think it would be a good idea to include this part in that. However, I say that the register never prescribes exactly what to do to people or teachers. It will of course be a huge choice menu, in which a teacher also has the freedom to choose the parts that fit him or her well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u99	At the request of Mr Rog, I propose his motion (34458, No. 18). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u100	I find the Van Meenen/Bisschop motion in part No. 19 goes way too far. It actually says that it all needs to be suspended. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. All the themes that both Mr Bishop and Mr Van Meenen are calling for, such as work pressure, perspective, teaching tasks and lack of teachers, are important, but we must be careful not to let one stop by the other. That is also the conclusion of a number of advisers other than the Council of State. The Jasper van Dijk c.s. motion in piece No. 20 actually contains the same thing, and that's why I advise against that motion. I really think we've done enough. Anyone can now express their minds and indicate whether or not they support this bill. I'm coming to the Ypma motion on part No. 21. We have talked about teachers, but of course there are more people active in schools and also those people are particularly valuable. I think the motion is a good addition, and that is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Three amendments have been tabled. First of all, I come to the Bishop's amendment to item No. 10. I believe that Mr Bishop's proposed amendment puts the legislator in the driver's seat. This makes it look like we're saying that someone who loses his registration can no longer work in a school at all. But we're saying he can't be a teacher anymore. After all, he's not a registered teacher. This is independent of the consequences of labour law. Whether or not it leads to dismissal belongs on the collective bargaining tables. The social partners must agree on this. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. The same applies to the Rog amendment on item No. 11. It's about the apprenticeship tracking system. Mr Rog seems to be making some sort of exception to this, whereas it has been laid down by law. The teachers have to use that, but they do have a choice. This concerns the question of which apprenticeship follow-up system you choose. The actual assessment based on the apprenticeship follow-up system is an integral part of the teacher's autonomy and tasks. If it were to be excluded, I would find that a weakening of the autonomy we are aiming for with this bill. Finally, Mr Rog has the amended amendment to item No. 12. I think he wants to put his finger on the sore spot with this amendment. It's about the front portal. Mr Rog is right: if you see how we have now proposed the portal legally, you will see that there is an understanding of the teachers who are not yet registered, but that we have not secured the two-year period, possibly extended by two more years. I am also inclined to agree with Mr Rog as a result of the discussion we have had on this subject. I also think this is an improvement on the current legislative proposal. I can therefore respond positively to the amendment. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-6.u101	We will vote on the bill, the motions and the amendments next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State.
