ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. On Saturday evening we were confronted with the arrest of Ebru Umar in Turkey on the basis of her tweets, and the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister reacted as if this was an incident without context or history. Minister Koenders expressed regret that she was arrested. He didn't condemn this. During the debate on the Turkey deal, the CDA said that we are a community of values and that we must defend them at these times, as is the case with terrorism, with war on our borders, but certainly also with Erdogan's power policy, and I do not see Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Koenders doing so at the moment. The Prime Minister doesn't get angry until there's criticism of him. He and the VVD see the problems of Erdogan's Turkey and the Turkey deal as two separate worlds. You have the world of the deal with the EU, and you have Turkey as a difficult country with problems in terms of human rights and freedom of expression. The House of Representatives has now asked hundreds of questions about these matters to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Questions have been asked about the questionable role of the Turks in the fight against ISIS, about the approach of Kurds, about the confiscation of churches, about the taking down of a Russian fighter and, not least, about the capture of numerous journalists. The answer is very often that the cabinet cannot confirm it and that there are no indications. The fact is that the Dutch Government is currently being guided by Erdogan's dominant position vis-à-vis us, partly thanks to the Turkey deal. If we do nothing, this is only the beginning of what Erdogan is going to do, and it is being talked about, among other things, visa freedom and accession to the EU. I want to know from the Minister what he has done, but above all I want to know if he is finally going to explain to the Turks what our values are. Has the Foreign Minister demanded that Ebru Umar be released immediately and allowed to leave Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. In reply to Mr Knops' questions, I say first of all that the Netherlands is taking up Ebru Umar's case high. For the Netherlands, the values of freedom of the press and freedom of expression are fundamental and non-negotiable. So we are not gonna bargain with that either, even if we make agreements with a country on other matters. So that's separate from each other, too. Indeed, the facts mentioned by Mr Knops regarding the arrest of Mrs Ebru Umar are correct. On Sunday morning there was direct contact with the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the embassy in Ankara. The Prime Minister and myself spoke to our Turkish colleagues several times on Sundays. So we've taken the case high. The Prime Minister spoke to his opponent, Mr Davutoğlu. We have made it clear in these talks that freedom of the press and freedom of expression are not only a great asset, but also unnegotiable, and that it is therefore not appropriate for a candidate country of the European Union to interfere with freedom of the press and freedom of expression. I have also informed my colleague that, despite the fact that the Netherlands cannot interfere in the course of justice in another country, I deeply regret the course of events. Mr Knops, I can hear you say, and I have also read that the cabinet would talk about Turkey with flour in its mouth because we need the country to deal with migration, but I really do distance myself from that. The fact that we would waste our principles is a far cry from me. You also know that you haven't, because you've been following us in the last few days. Freedom of the press and freedom of expression are a non-negotiable element of European identity. Both the Prime Minister and I made that clear loud and clear in talks with our Turkish colleagues, who we spoke to on Sundays. At our request, the European Commission has now expressed this view. I would like to say one more time: the Dutch Government is taking Ebru Umar's case high and believes that the value of freedom of the press and freedom of expression is fundamental. With regard to the further progress of the Ebru Umar legal procedure, I cannot and will not say much here, but I assume that we are very active. We also hope that she will soon be able to return home, especially now that her house has been broken into. It's nauseating that it happens at a time when someone is in distress in another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u3	What we see, also in the reaction of the cabinet, is that all these events are often dismissed as incidents, whereas there is a pattern. Erdogan interferes with the rule of law in the Netherlands, Germany and Sweden and interferes with the prohibition of films, documentaries and performances. And the Minister has just said that the European Commission has now responded to our request. Commissioner Timmermans was there and we haven't heard them in the first few days. Mr Tusk has even said that it is not a question of criticizing Turkey on this point. In my view, there is exactly what this minister is denying, namely that the fact that Europe has made a deal with Turkey makes it impossible to say firmly and clearly what it is about. If the Minister says 'we reacted immediately', what should I think of such a statement as 'we find it regrettable'? The Minister should have condemned it in the most powerful terms, precisely because it is not an isolated incident, but because it is a pattern that has continued in recent years under Erdogan's rule. I have the following questions for the Minister. Did the Prime Minister also call Erdogan and talk to him? That is something that is not clear at the moment. Why didn't the Foreign Minister summon the Turkish ambassador? If that has happened, I'd like to hear it, but I haven't heard about it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u4	However, I would like to respond to what you are saying here, as if the Dutch Government or myself had not distanced themselves and as if we would only see this as an incident, which is not the case at all, as you know. We have had regular debates here on the situation of pressbreidel in Turkey. You also know that the Netherlands is at the forefront of this. You have been to all these debates yourself. You are now making the suggestion as if there is a connection with an agreement with regard to refugees. This applies neither to the Netherlands nor to Turkey. What you claim on this point is also completely unprovokable. I also really distance myself from the suggestion you are making here, which is simply not in line with the facts and which, unfortunately, I have to take off as a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u5	This I cast far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u6	You will have the floor in a moment, Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u7	Then I come to the questions put by Mr Knops. An hour after the issue of the click line came out last week, I and others took a great deal of distance from it, because we find this unacceptable and pressure on Turkish citizens as well. Not only has there been a great deal of talk with the embassy about this, but it has also been withdrawn immediately. Despite its withdrawal, we then protested against it in Turkey. The Prime Minister's Evenknee is the Prime Minister of Turkey. As you know, the function of Head of State of Turkey is, at least at the moment, a ceremonial function. The people it's about are the ones that have been reached by us. We will not allow ourselves to be restricted by any degree of hierarchy in the way in which we stand up for Mrs Ebru Umar in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u8	The President of Turkey is a ceremonial function, and I should like to take this into account, because I believe that the facts of every day show that this is not the case at all, which is exactly the problem. The Minister calls my questions suggestive. I asked a question about Mr Tusk's remarks, which do make a connection between the deal that has been made and the fact that it is not a question of criticising Turkey. The problem is, let me just say here that all those questions that are asked about Turkey are often dismissed with 'we have no indication', 'we can't prove it' or 'Room, you go back'. I think that it would be a good thing and that it would be a good thing for this Minister to acknowledge that there is a fat, fat problem with Turkey and that he is not going to ignore it and then take action to ensure that the examples we now have on the road are no longer prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u9	I have said that the Prime Minister's evenkniee is the Prime Minister of Turkey, which is the core of the matter, and that we will not shy away from approaching others in any way if that makes sense for the matter which, I think, everyone is now advocating, namely the release and return of Ebru Umar. I would also point out that the Dutch Government does not speak with any kind of mouth when it comes to freedom of the press or human rights in Turkey. As you know, I deal with this on a regular basis. However, I cannot change it overnight. We are looking for the best strategies. We can differ on that. I cast the moral high ground that you put forward, as if the Dutch government would not, and you would, far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u10	I take note of these answers from the Minister. The biggest problem now is that the warnings we have given on this subject over and over again will all become a reality. The problem then only gets much bigger. The deal that has been decided will be put under further pressure. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u11	The restriction of freedom of the press and freedom of expression in Turkey did not start yesterday today. It has been going on for a long time and has for a long time mainly concerned Turkish journalists who have been locked up. Turkey has long been a frontrunner in this area. Now it is also increasingly affecting foreign journalists, including Dutch journalists. It is logical that this pattern should be identified by the Netherlands and by Europe. It is widely recognised that there is a serious deterioration in these important European values, which are also included in that package, of the rule of law and democracy, and which are being negotiated with Turkey in the context of accession. We cannot just continue to negotiate with Turkey to get closer to the European Union. I would ask the Minister to include that in the package, in the deal that has been made. It will speed up negotiations on accession to the European Union. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u12	I very much agree with you on a number of examples that you mention. I have the same concerns. These are mainly Turkish journalists, and I would like to point out that Mrs Ebru has a Turkish-Dutch nationality, but it is also about all journalists, it is about all the freedom of the press. I would like to stress once again that I fully understand your concerns about the rule of law in Turkey. Therefore, the Dutch Government is convinced that chapters 23 and 24 on the rule of law should be at the forefront. That's what these cases are about. You also know that the Dutch government has been at the forefront of IPA funds to make media freedom a priority in relations with Turkey. We'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u13	The arrest of the Umar journalist is an unacceptable intimidation. It makes it clear that the press in Turkey is outlawed, not only the Turkish press, but also foreign journalists. It is part of a pattern, and it is also about Dutch journalists: Mr Vermeulen, Mr Ulger, Mrs Geerdink and now Mrs Umar. It's not an incident, it's a pattern. In order to prevent journalists becoming even more unnecessarily victims of such measures by Erdogan, I would like to ask whether Mrs Umar can receive financial assistance in order to prevent this legal procedure from getting her into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mrs Umar will receive all the support she deems necessary to defend her case properly. There is consular assistance from the Dutch Government, which is very proactive. You can be sure that I am also in regular contact with her to ensure that it runs in such a way that she has nothing to complain about the position of the Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u15	It is constantly stressed that there is a separation between the reception of refugees in Turkey and the violation of freedom of the press and the imprisonment of journalists. I want to know from the Minister how he finds this effect on Turkey. Part of the deal was the accelerated accession to the European Union. Is the Minister prepared to give a statement... The Netherlands is still President of the European Union.... to suspend these accession talks with Turkey until we can get this Dutch journalist out of prison? Again, this is a series of journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u16	Maybe two elements about that question. Firstly, we share the concerns and are exactly in line. Secondly, I will keep that case separate, and so will the Turkish Government. That is a good thing, because we have a very different interest in it. Ending the smuggling circuit at sea, which fortunately means that many fewer people die along that route, remains important for the people who it concerns. It's not like that. We have not traded on these principles, they are separate circuits in that sense. The second point concerns the accession negotiations. I know you're an opponent of that. You already were. At the EU-Turkey Summit on 29 November, the Commission promised to draw up preparatory documents in a number of chapters. They are precisely about chapters 23 and 24 of the rule of law. There is no doubt that the point that you consider so important comes to the fore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u17	Of course, it is too crazy for words that a journalist who says something about a head of state that is true should be arrested for that. Fortunately, almost the whole of the Netherlands is currently behind Ebru Umar. Well, the whole of the Netherlands; except, of course, the majority of the Lower Turks and those two gentlemen of the Turkish Party who are here with thanks to the Labour Party in the House of Representatives. Does the Minister agree with me that the integration of the Lower Turks in the Netherlands has completely failed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u18	The answer is, no, I don't think so. So that's the short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u19	A second supplementary question, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u20	Too bad we do not get an explanation of the answer to the first question. My second question is as follows. We have, of course, seen for many years that Erdogan and his AK party are increasingly moving away from the fundamental principles of the rule of law and democracy. I think the Minister sees that happen. He knows that, too. Erdogan also does so with the support of the majority of the Turkish population. Does the Minister agree with me that Turkey cannot and should not become a member of the European Union in a thousand years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u21	This is a bit of a question about the familiar road. What am I supposed to do with a question like that? "Not in a thousand years." Yeah, I don't know. We have negotiations and they are very strict. There is a problem with the freedom of the press and we take it very seriously. That is also what I mentioned. Further predictions about the next ten thousand years I really do not intend to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr. Knops said so. Several other spokesmen said so. The arrest of Ebru Umar is not on its own. The harassment tactics of President Erdogan and his AK party go much further. Now there was a piece in the Belgian newspaper De Standaard this morning, which shows that there is a black list of 1,224 Belgian Turks who criticize Erdogan and therefore are no longer allowed in the country. So now we have the situation that we are negotiating with Ankara on free travel for Turks from June onwards. At the same time, critical Belgians are no longer allowed to enter Turkey. Is the Minister aware that there is such a black list of critical Dutch Turks? If he doesn't know that, is he willing to do some research on that? Many Dutch Turks who are critical are also intimidated, also by an army of internet trolls. So my question is whether there is such a Dutch blacklist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u23	The most important thing is that we in the Netherlands are about ourselves. Whether they are Turkish Dutch, Surinamese Dutch, Moroccan Dutch or Dutch who are born here, it can and should never be the case that there is intimidation from outside. One may have contacts, one may watch television, one may become a member of organizations, but one cannot be intimidated. That is also the reason why the Dutch government, when the consulate in Rotterdam started with the click line, dealt with this immediately last week. That stopped, too. Of course, we are always alert to all these things, because it is not a matter of foreign or foreign governments having the wrong influence on what is happening in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u24	A second supplementary question, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u25	That wasn't my question. My question was not whether, according to the Minister, we should be intimidated. Of course you can't. My question was: is he aware of whether there is a black list of Dutch Turks who are critical, as apparently exists in Belgium? Is the Minister prepared to have an investigation into the existence of such a blacklist?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u26	The answer is, no, I'm not familiar with a list like that. I really need to read that article in De Standaard. You're damn right we're alert to this kind of thing. That is the only thing I can say about this at the moment, on the basis of this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u27	The Minister clearly outlined the Dutch position, also in the context of European talks on accession and the like. Can he also make an effort to ensure a clear European response? This does not only affect the relationship between the Netherlands and Turkey. It also affects the relationship between Europe and Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u28	Yes, I very much agree. That's what I'm doing. In the meantime, the European Commission is interested in this important matter, as I have just said. A number of press cases and the position of a number of foreign journalists have rightly been mentioned, although this is not just a matter of course. It is also a question of the freedom of the press in Turkey itself. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u29	I have a supplementary question. Is the Minister prepared to opt very explicitly for stronger support for organisations in Turkey fighting for freedom of the press, such as the Turkish journalist organisation TGS?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u30	It's hard for me to say right now that I'm going to support that or that organization. In any case, the Netherlands is at the forefront of supporting organisations dealing with the freedom of the press, including those in Turkey. I would like to take another look at it, but I do not have the impression that we are failing in this respect. I do not think Mr Grashoff has that impression either. At the time, when it came to IPA funds, we said that the main focus should be on this point. The Dutch Government then made a commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u31	Many Dutch people are furious at Erdogan and furious about the arrest of Mrs Umar. And rightly so! Very understandable. Those Dutch have expressed this through the social media, the internet, Facebook and so on. Can the Minister guarantee that these Dutch will not be arrested or get into trouble if they go on holiday to Turkey, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u32	Mr Bontes mentions two different things. Firstly, I understand the great unrest in Dutch society about this. It is not for nothing that I want to express this, given the feeling in Dutch society, because I too think it is important to move this matter forward. That's what we're working on day and night. Secondly, travel advice is in force for travel to Turkey. Guarantees are of course not to be given in the world. It depends on whether people comply with the law in Turkey. Of course, that's not up to me. I would like to, but there is a Turkish course of justice, whether we like it or not. On this point, I cannot give general travel advice to the people Mr Bontes is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u33	These are matters that have happened in the Netherlands. If people say on the internet or on Facebook that Erdogan is a dictator or a sultan in which they are right, will they get into trouble when they are in Turkey? That's my question. Can the Minister guarantee that these people won't get into trouble? If the minister thinks they're gonna get into trouble, is he gonna give a negative travel advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u34	I'm afraid I can't give you any guarantees. I have just raised a matter which we have major problems with and which concerns exactly the same case. That is why we are working on it. So I can't give you that guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u35	In the meantime we have seen a lot of misery because of the long arm and also the long toes of Erdogan. Europe often reacts diplomatically, but does it have any effect? Is there really something successful and effective being done to force Turkey into submission?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u36	We see that the situation regarding freedom of the press has deteriorated over the last period. Europe is very critical of this. At the same time, it is only up to the Turks and the Turkish Government, with the support of us and the organisations there, to improve that matter without any blackmail. We are not going to do the latter. I have just said that, especially in some of the chapters that should be dealt with as a priority, it depends a little on how much Turkey wants to take a step towards Europe. Let us be honest about that. If Turkey wants to take a step towards Europe, it will also have to improve its behaviour significantly. It is not worthy to tackle the press and freedom of the press in this way, while at the same time wanting to be part of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u37	As colleagues and the Minister have already said, freedom of the press and freedom of expression are a great asset, not only for the people of the Netherlands, but also for the people of Turkey, for the Turkish Dutch, for the Dutch who are in Turkey, but also for the journalists in Turkey. One of my colleagues mentioned that Turkey is in place 151 on the list of countries where there is freedom of the press. That's pretty low. Let us look at the context of the accession negotiations with the European Union. The Minister has made it quite clear that we should not negotiate. I think it would be very good if we started talking in the context of chapters 23 and 24. Only then will there be a serious lead to start the conversation. Then we can also agree on the steps that will be taken. Can the Minister work on this and see whether not only the Commission but also his colleagues in the European Union support this position so that we can really take a next step?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u38	It has to do with the question of when we speak of incidents. You could say there's been an incident, the third incident. Last year I myself dealt with two journalists: Mrs Geerdink and a colleague of hers. We were able to get them out. That's what I had to do. We're dealing with this case now. That is serious; let there be no misunderstanding about it. But it has just been rightly said that it is now about Turkish Dutch people and that it cannot remain an incident. Reforms must therefore take place. We cannot simply impose it; it must come from Turkey. I am prepared to ask the Commission to have the preparatory documents on the rule of law, chapters 23 and 24, ready as soon as possible. This will provide Turkey with a clear roadmap of reforms to be implemented. So that too cannot be blackmailed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u39	I hesitated to ask a follow-up question, but now that the Minister of Security and Justice is behind the Foreign Minister, I do have a question. There's been a terrible break-in in the house of that lady who was arrested. I would like to know from this minister and the cabinet or the national police, if people turn to her to report or express their concerns, is sufficiently alert to ensure that these people are heard immediately. Those people shouldn't be sent away from the police. It is precisely their concerns that need to be given special attention at the moment, so that they can move more freely in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u40	I think it's a very good question. I now have to answer a question about something that is not my responsibility. I do not know what the constitutional situation is, but I can see that the colleague who is sitting behind me is doing a lot of good. Can I leave it at that at the moment? That is all I can do, because it is the responsibility of another minister. I just want to say one more thing about it. It is nauseating that someone who is in trouble in another country is also experiencing a terrible burglary. That doesn't matter who did it. Of course, the national police are very alert to this case and will find out exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u41	It's not just a consular case. It is also a case in which we stand up for the freedom of expression that we all embrace here. Then I think it is perfectly normal that in this consular matter not only the Foreign Minister but also the Prime Minister should intervene. I do have a question for the Foreign Minister: how usual is that? I myself was thinking back to 2009 when this minister was sitting in the Balkenende IV cabinet when a colleague of ours was denied access to the United Kingdom, a friendly ally. The then Foreign Minister said after 48 hours that he regretted it. The then Prime Minister refused to interfere. In those days, the CDA Minister of Justice had Gregory Nekschot take off his bed. How common is it for the Prime Minister to interfere? Does the Foreign Minister think that we should always see this when it comes to matters of principle such as freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u42	At least it happened, even at my request. I think that a matter relating to principles, which goes far beyond external relations and which also has its consequences for Dutch society, is a responsibility that directly affects me. This is not just about standing up for this particular case, but also about matters that have already been raised: freedom of the press and what it means in relation to other dossiers in which Turkey is involved. As it has a broader look, so does the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u43	We are talking here about freedom of expression and freedom of the press. We have seen in recent days that freedom of expression has become the freedom of only one opinion. 'Cause if you don't share that opinion, I hear people smiling again. 'You're "the offspring of a failed generation," then you're "show NSB behavior," then you're "of the fifth column," then you're "the long arm," then you have to "fuck off to your own country" and then you're "not loyal to the Netherlands." I ask this Minister and this government what concrete measures are being taken to counter those expressions of hatred, to counter those expressions of threat and to combat those expressions of stigmatisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u44	Let me say two things about that. First of all, it is important that everyone should, of course, be aware of themselves, but that would be my appeal in Dutch society to stand in principle for freedom of expression. That is at the heart of our Constitution and of our legal system, and that is why we are very active in this matter. Then it is up to everyone to make use of it in a way that he or she thinks is wise. As a member of the government, I am not going to color it and I am not going to say whether I think anything is sensible or not. After all, I would take the role of judging that people shouldn't really say things whether that's a humor or an insult. In the Netherlands, we have a law for this. That law can be used by people who feel offended. I would like to say to everyone: at least let us have this debate with each other in a tolerant manner. There may well be different opinions, including on how we feel about Turkey. That is also the case in this Parliament. However, let this freedom of expression go hand in hand with tolerance. And let it be an active tolerance. Talk to each other. Active tolerance is important. That's different than saying you don't care what the other person thinks. If you disagree, talk to each other. That's what the Netherlands colors. There is currently a journalist stuck in Turkey and many people feel involved. I understand. Let us then ensure that this problem is not only resolved, we cannot do so alone, because it is happening in Turkey, but we are doing our best to ensure that it does not become a reflection of Dutch society, as if we are no longer able to discuss the real problem with each other. My appeal is therefore for freedom of expression and that is why we are doing so and for active tolerance. Talk to each other if you don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u45	That last call, of course, is beautiful. However, I have noticed in recent days that exactly what the Minister is saying is being contradicted. I really urge this government to monitor the expressions. Let me read you some of them. Then all my colleagues have an idea of what this is about, including Mr De Roon of the PVV, who felt it necessary to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u46	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u47	"We're going Turkey hunting." "Get rid of you, cancerous growths, even if I have to do it myself." "Death or Gladioles." That's what he can say in his contribution. "Cancer cancers or the tallest building: splash." Shall I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u48	No. What is your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u49	I have here a list of expressions. I would urge the Minister to keep an eye on these expressions. There is a group of people in the Netherlands who also use freedom of expression, but who are stigmatized and threatened. We need to keep an eye on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u50	Let me give you a clear answer to that. First of all, the Dutch Government is not a thought police. In addition, we stand for freedom of expression. Thirdly, you can have a legitimate difference of opinion as to whether these are the most amazing statements in the world and whether you are really trying to find each other. That's up to society. I would like to call on each other in this country to ensure that we respect freedom of expression and, at the same time, actively tolerate it. That's the only call I can make as a member of the government. Furthermore, there is a law in the Netherlands and it is the freedom of every Dutch citizen to use it if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u51	Mr. De Roon, you've been there twice. You have a personal fact, I understand? That must be very brief, because it is oral Question Time and not a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u52	I'm well aware of that, Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuzu has just quoted a number of statements made by third parties. He's linking it to my name. As a personal fact, I would therefore like to make it clear that I do not agree with those quotes and that I do not and do not like them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u53	That's how you made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u54	I, too, have a personal fact. My personal fact is that Mr De Roon needs a personal fact and does not even dare to say it in his own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-2.u55	Thank you.
