ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u1	Mr. Chairman. About three weeks ago, we had a general discussion about the police. In doing so, we had a good discussion on issues such as ethnic profiling and the police organisation. The Minister and I have had a disagreement about the way we act when agents engage in discrimination. Let us be clear that we appreciate the work of the police. During the general consultation I indicated that I cannot appreciate those policemen, those few who are talking about Moroccan hunting and who make such terrible statements. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas former Chief Constable Bouman indicated in advance that the agents in the Mitch Henriquez case would not be dismissed;]] [[calls on the government to impose a disciplinary measure in the form of dismissal, for example, on non-scarce police officers who are guilty of discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that racism is a form of hatecrimy and that the penalties for racism are not sufficiently high;]] [[calls on the Government to give more scope to the police and the Public Prosecutor to detect and prosecute perpetrators of discrimination and racism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-669]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-670]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr. Chairman. Our last debate on the police was largely devoted to diversity and ethnic profiling. I would like to repeat a few of the points I made in that debate. The VVD understands that the cabinet seeks more diversity within the police force. It is good if the corps is a reflection of Dutch society as much as possible. The good news is it's heading in the right direction. The inflow rate of non-Western immigrants has doubled compared to 2013, according to the Minister's last letter. But striving for more diversity must never mean that we lose quality. For this reason, the VVD is not in favour of the quota of 25% policemen with an ethnic background. Quality goes beyond quantity. In line with this, the VVD is not in favour of the Blue Talent pilot currently running within the police. Only immigrant prospective agents who didn't make it to the interview round can get a nickname course after which they can try again. It's called double standards. I can be brief about ethnic profiling. We have to rely on the officer's professionalism. Essentially, the police officer should always be able to explain why he's controlling. If he or she cannot do so, then there is an unjustified check. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u3	I cannot fail to interrupt, because Mr Tellegen suggests in what she says about diversity that there is double standards in the final terms. Cops who aren't really fit, they'd get through the training anyway. What's that based on? Diversity is an extra quality requirement rather than less. I think it is a bad suggestion from the VVD that talking about diversity would mean less quality. On the contrary, we strive for more quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u4	I absolutely don't wake up that suggestion. The cabinet strives for more diversity within the corps and I fully underline that. I understand that, and that's good. However, I am not in favour of saying that an x-number of people must be within the corps of a certain background, because then you may be going to shift the quality requirements to get that percentage. Mr Marcouch was not in the debate, but in line with that, I was also so fiercely opposed to the pilot that is now running. I just think that it gives some people a double chance, when you should actually give everyone a double chance. That is what I am talking about here. I am absolutely not an opponent of more diversity within the police force, not even at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u5	Mrs. Tellegen, you're moving on. No, Mr Marcouch, you can't interrupt anymore. I'll allow just one interruption, and you've had it. Moreover, you have already had a debate and you have certainly discussed it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u6	Mr. Chairman. In this VAO we cannot ignore the topicality, what happened at the central works council and the fact that so much money has been wasted. I have two motions and I think they speak for themselves. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that internal policy investigations at the National Police have shown at least that much of the expenditure of the Central Works Council (COR) was unlawful and ineffective and that it lacked supervision;]] [[noting that the Minister has announced the initiation of an independent investigation focusing on the question whether the former Chief Constable has done or failed to do what could reasonably be expected of him in his duties;]] [[Whereas the chain of decision-making on the reorganisation of national police has more links than the chief of police, the chairman and the other members of the works council;]] [[Whereas the examination must also indicate whether the works council has been improperly moved to consent to the reorganisation;]] [[Whereas the role and knowledge of the Minister in this matter should not be disregarded;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the announced independent investigation not only to concern the works council and the then chief of police, but also to consider the Minister and the Ministry of Security and Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Toorenburg, Kooiman, Swinkels, Helder, Segers, Van Tongeren, Ouwehand, Van der Staaij and Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-671]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u7	The motion is widely supported and that is impressive. This afternoon we agreed at the procedural meeting, partly following the Minister's letter, that we will look together at the research assignment when that research assignment comes to the Chamber next week. The Minister also promised in his letter that he would come to the Chamber. We have further agreed that we will have a debate with the Minister on this research assignment and on what should be involved. I do not understand this motion and I find it rather premature. I ask Mr Van Toorenburg what point it was in making those appointments this afternoon at the procedural meeting, now that she has already formulated the research assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u8	No, I think it's very clear that I didn't formulate that research assignment. I've just formulated what the research needs to focus on. The minister himself has written that the investigation focuses solely on the chief of police. That is what the Minister's letter says, and I think it is important for the Chamber today to state that, as far as we are concerned, the investigation should not be limited to this and that the role, the possible involvement and the science of the minister should also be looked at. I am very pleased that we have discussed it this afternoon, because it has made it clear that we assume that we will see the research assignment before 15 November. This will allow us to debate it in the same week. Then we can formulate a very clear research assignment and possibly also indicate who should do that research. We are therefore merely concerned with the question of who the research is aimed at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u9	I'm sorry. It seems as if Mrs Van Toorenburg has not been to the procedural meeting this afternoon. During that meeting, we all noted very clearly, following a request from the SP, that as a Chamber we will not forward the formulation of the research assignment. We have all found that it is very straightforward and correct if the Minister simply sets out his mission and then we debate it together. My suggestion to Mrs Van Toorenburg would therefore be: nice of you to try, but hold the motion until we debate it during the debate we have agreed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u10	I think that the almost complete opposition listened very carefully to what was exchanged at the procedural meeting. If Mrs Tellegen would just say to me that I wasn't paying attention, I could still think: gosh, maybe she's right. But we've been paying close attention. That is precisely why this motion is so widely supported. The almost complete opposition is well aware that the Minister only wants to focus it on the Chief Constable, while we share the view that it also extends to the Minister. I understand very well that the coalition is getting the shakes, but perhaps it is good to look at it that way. I had another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an investigation is under way into the role of the former chief of police on the expenditure of the Central Works Council (COR);]] [[Whereas, in view of the vulnerability and prestige of the national police, it is undesirable for the former Chief of Staff to be able to conduct this investigation between the offices of the national police;]] [[calls on the government to stop using the services of the former Chief of Staff in the course of the investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Toorenburg, Kooiman, Helder, Segers, Van Tongeren, Van der Staaij and Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-672]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u11	Mr. Chairman. I'm replacing colleague Kooiman. During the general consultation on the police, the discussion included ethnic profiling and diversity. That this is alive, we see again during this VAO. Afterwards, there was a lot of discussion about how often ethnic profiling occurs. What I like in this discussion is that the police themselves acknowledge that it is happening and that they want to take action against it. A step is also to create more diversity in the workplace; the VVD and the PvdA have already mentioned it. According to the SP, one way to do this is to recruit better. So it's not just a question of the selection process, but you're doing it by recruiting better. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it is desirable that the national police should reflect Dutch society;]] [[Whereas, at the Police College and in many national police units, the number of staff is not yet sufficiently diverse;]] [[noting that the BlueTalent pilot of the Police College focuses solely on diversity policy in the selection of new students and insufficient on recruitment of new students;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a plan of recruitment approach for the Police College which should lead to a better diversity policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen and Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-673]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u12	Finally, I will look into the expenditure of the central works council. The SP requested the investigation at the time. There was an exploratory inquiry. We have already asked for the role of the Minister and the Ministry to be involved. Now, fortunately, there will be more research. Like other parties, the SP believes it is very important that we quickly receive the Minister's research assignment, so that we can discuss it in general consultation. It is nice that Mr Kooiman's proposal to debate that research assignment was supported today. Can the Minister indeed promise that we will be able to receive that research assignment within two weeks, as requested by us as a Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u13	Mr. Chairman. We have had a good general discussion with the Minister. Anyway, we can't get around the actuality. That is why I am using these two minutes to explain why my group co-signed Mr Van Toorenburg's motions. You can't avoid the commotion that has arisen. This should be properly examined as soon as possible, and preferably measures will be taken. My group welcomes the Minister's commitment to an investigation. In response to the request of the SP, we will also discuss the research assignment. But my group does not wish to leave any doubt that the Minister in general consultation we are about to hold should remove the doubt in my group. It will really have to be a completely independent investigation, because that is what this matter requires. The police deserve that, too. Every effort must be made to leave the blazon uncontaminated or restore it. That is why we must act urgently and the investigation must be careful and independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u14	We have come to the end of the Chamber's input. We will wait a few minutes so that the Minister can receive all the motions and prepare his response to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u15	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the spokesmen for their questions. We have indeed had a good debate on the national police. It is one of the most important subjects that we talk about regularly. We all know the background to why we talk so much about it, namely the formation and reorganisation of the national police. The Chamber keeps a close eye on all these aspects together with me. We have also discussed a number of aspects raised by Mr Kuzu, among others, in motions for resolutions, on which Mrs Tellegen asked a further question. I will deal with the motions first, but I will also answer the questions on the way. Mr Kuzu asked the government in his motion for a resolution on item No. 669 to impose a disciplinary measure, for example, in the form of dismissal, on police officers who are guilty of discrimination. Mr Kuzu and I fully agree that any discrimination within or outside the police force must be rejected. If a citizen considers that an agent is guilty of racism or discrimination, a complaint may be lodged. Following a motion by Mr Marcouch, it is also ensured that complaints can be made more easily through the launch of an app. A complaint is always investigated by the police and if there is reason for a disciplinary investigation in the event of suspicion of racism or discrimination, so will it. If it becomes apparent that there is a lack of duty, the appropriate disciplinary action will be considered. The ultimum remedium is then punishment discharge. That is a stand-alone policy and it is fully respected. The context given by Mr Kuzu to his motion means that I must discourage the motion. But I agree with the thrust of the motion, which is in line with current policy. In his second motion, in part No. 670, Mr Kuzu asked the government to increase its scope to detect and prosecute perpetrators of racism and discrimination. As I said, Mr Kuzu and I agree on that point. I will also give the Chamber a very specific answer on a number of recent questions. The cabinet rejects any form of discrimination. In accordance with the BOLO designation, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are also actively involved in this. The President of the College of Attorney General has assured me that the Public Prosecutor's Office is doing everything in its power to deal with and prosecute cases of discrimination that can be prosecuted. I also agreed with the police and the D.A. that we will jointly investigate the shift from offline discrimination to online hate crimes. So I can reassure Mr Kuzu on that point. If Mr Kuzu's request for more room for manoeuvre means that there must be additional staff or powers, I must, of course, advise against it, for the simple reason that this also involves additional money. I don't find cover in the motion. Perhaps Mr Kuzu can find room for that in the debate on the budget. Mrs Tellegen asked about the recruitment of police officers and the way in which we ensure more diversity in the corps. We have also had this discussion in general. Maybe it's a good thing that I'm clear on two points. There is no quota. There is a target, but that is not a quota. That is a big difference, because a quota means that you have to reach a certain percentage, where it is irrelevant how you achieve that, while there must be more diversity in the corps from an operational need. That's in the best interest of the Corps itself. Mr Marcouch also referred to this. Mrs Tellegen asks whether this is at the expense of quality. I have already explained in detail in general consultation that this is not the case. The selection criteria and thus the quality are not affected. Mr Marcouch is right that diversity is an absolute necessity precisely in order to improve the quality of police work. After all, the teams must respond to security problems in the different neighbourhoods. The Chamber has therefore asked me to impose an obligation on the Chief Constable to increase the diversity of the corps. That's what I've done. Not that that was necessary, because the chief of police sees as no other that it is necessary to work on diversity in this way and thus on the quality of the corps. Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion on item No. 671 deals with independent research. I take good note of the motion and all the comments that have been made on it. I understand that the Chamber has asked me to send her an investigation plan within two weeks. I will. I will also mention the scope of the research and who I have in mind to shape it. In that light and in the light of the discussion that has just taken place, I would like to suggest to Mrs Van Toorenburg that the motion be retained so that it can be assessed whether the research design meets Mrs Van Toorenburg's wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u16	Not yet. That would only be possible if the Minister here today indicated that the investigation would not focus exclusively on the Chief Constable and that he would therefore send a research proposal to the Chamber which would also focus on his own role. That is the question we are asking here. If the Minister can now promise that we will find this in the research proposal, I can hold the motion, but otherwise I think the Chamber should give him this notion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u17	That's kind of the reverse world. If you ask me to send you a research proposal that you would then like to discuss together with me in a general discussion, it is wonderful to say that you have already thought of what the research should be about. Then I must advise against your motion. I will make you a research proposal in accordance with your request. Then we can have the debate on this. The motion in part No. 672 calls on the government to stop using the services of the former Chief of Staff on-going investigations. Firstly, I think it would be wise for us to discuss the scope of the research together. There's provision for that. Secondly, here too, we need to have the facts on the table before we draw any conclusions. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u18	In all the messages in my mailbox, all my phone calls and apps and everything else published, I noticed one thing today. No one understands that in such a serious, shameful case the police are investigating but that the person to whom the investigation will at least be directed can continue to do so, as stated in the Minister's letter. How can the Minister think that any independent investigation can come out where people feel they can say anything, when the person who is the subject of investigation is still walking around in the offices of the national police? No cop understands that. No one in the Netherlands understands that who e-mailed me today. The vote is very clear. I find it impossible for the Minister to have such a failing moral compass that he does not want to see it. I am now asking the Minister to explain to the Chamber how he thinks someone can simply continue to function, €185,000 a year for a little consultative work, while this is hanging over his head.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u19	The kindness of the problem is that we don't know what "this" is. This needs to be examined first and then you have to draw conclusions from it. I think everyone's entitled to that treatment regardless of rank. For the record, Mr Bouman is currently a consultant and researcher in the Antilles. The suggestion that there would be any running around in offices is in any case not at the moment in the Netherlands. But it doesn't matter very much. You need to do some research right now. After that, I'd like to discuss it with the Chamber. I therefore advise against the motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 673 of members Van Nispen and Kooiman, about the pilot Blue Talent. I've already said a few things about it. The motion calls on the government to come up with a plan for recruitment for the Police College which should lead to a better diversity policy. Let me take a look at the influx figures we realize with the current recruitment policy: in 2013 10.2% of non-Western... No, I have to put it another way; you can no longer use the word "allochtoon," I read. Mr Marcouch says: with a migration background. It's more complicated than that, but I'll take it from here. In 2013, 10.2% of those with a migration background, 11% of those with a migration background in 2014 and 12.1% of those with a migration background in 2015. The forecast for 2016 is 17% of people with a migration background. All the figures indicate that the recruitment of several police officers is going well and that there is therefore no reason to come up with a plan of action for something that is going well. This does not mean that we do not pay attention to it, but it does mean that there is no need for a plan of action. I could suggest to Mr Van Nispen that the motion be withdrawn. If he does not, I must, unfortunately, discourage the motion, but not without stating that I agree with the thrust of the motion. It is very important that attention should be paid to recruitment, but I also see this in the figures. I see that Mr Van Nispen is not withdrawing. In that case, I must discourage the motion. Finally, I come to the point made by both Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Helder regarding my intention to launch an investigation. I will take it with me in the letter of order that the Chamber will receive within two weeks. I look forward to the debate with the Chamber on that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-16.u20	We have come to the end of this VAO. The votes on the motions will take place on Tuesday.
