ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. I want to talk to Minister Ploumen about Ethiopia. That's a beautiful country. It's only been colonized for a few years. Coffee's coming out. The Queen of Sheba is from there, too. Handel sang about it, or sang about it. The subject of my question is a bit more serious. Around Addis Ababa we have a lot of companies. It's good to trade with other countries, let that be clear, but many of those companies have been attacked by disgruntled residents from the provinces of Oromia and Amhara. That's getting serious. 600 people have been killed and thousands injured since November. Tens of thousands of arrests have also been made. In the opinion of the SP Group, there is a clear example of the two legs on which this minister stands, namely a VVD leg and a Party of the Labor leg. On the one hand, it supports the business community which ignores the proper regulation of land ownership. On the other hand, it wants to promote employment and human rights are at its heart. In a case like this, however, this does not reach full maturity. In fact, in this you see image damage that also radiates on the Netherlands. In my opinion, that is because the Minister has not sufficiently considered how to organise that kind of activity around a capital city, while at the same time doing justice to land law and user law. That is not legally very clearly defined. The Minister knows that. After all, it has been around in countries like this for a long time. Is she an accessory to the rebellion and discontent in that region or does she not think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Before I answer Mr Smaling's question, I would like to take the liberty of congratulating you on your first place in the political top ten in Opposite. It may also be said that you have such a nice place in it. Then I come to Mr Smaling's question. Mr Smaling and I agree that the situation in Ethiopia is serious. There is great unrest and we are very concerned about that situation. Stability in Ethiopia is under pressure, whereas it has shown growth and played a very constructive role in the many conflicts we have seen in the region over the past few decades. We are also concerned because Dutch companies are targeted, and they are not only, but also other international companies. Let me say a few words about the analysis we are making of the causes of this discontent. We have already noted that the progress shown by Ethiopia does not yet reach everyone. And that in an atmosphere where there is a lack of democracy and where the administration does not always meet the standards we apply and want to see the people of Ethiopia. We can see that this is particularly affecting young people. That is not today or yesterday, nor from November, but it has been going on for a long time. We have regular conversations about how to improve that situation. Our embassy in Addis is very alert to what is happening and speaks to people from the opposition, companies, government representatives and NGOs. So this one is orienting itself widely. These talks show that the demonstrations we are seeing are mainly aimed at the government and public authorities. Foreign investors and companies are seen as an extension of the same government. It is also known that attacks on international companies attract more attention from international media than a demonstration in the streets of Addis or anywhere near it. There are many Dutch companies in Ethiopia. These create about 70,000 jobs with each other. That is important, because one of the problems is that young people do not have a job. At the same time, these companies must comply with the OECD directives, which we have discussed before. Companies receiving support from the Netherlands must comply with this. We are talking about this with the other companies. Mr Smaling's problem of land rights is absolutely a relevant problem in Ethiopia. The Netherlands participates in strengthening the registration of land systems and speaks with companies to ensure that they comply with these guidelines. If we don't, we're gonna start talking about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	We share the concerns and we are very alert. The same goes for our embassy. Wherever we can, we also support the Ethiopians to put an end to this situation. The only way to do that is if the government talks with all these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	I don't think this is enough anyway. I know who you can call to talk to each other, but that won't solve anything, as long as you don't look at whether that legislation has been implemented at all and whether it can be enforced. The Minister knows as well as I do that many people in this country have a great deal of knowledge of land rights. We have a very good register that is also internationally active, including in universities and NGOs. We really are a top country in terms of land rights. We know a lot about that. There is a situation in which they are being violated. That may be a big word, but it just doesn't do justice to the people. After all, the country you come from and where your ancestors are buried also has a spiritual value, which goes beyond a piece of paper and an appointment with a government official who probably also got a commission for that. I am not saying that it is, but there will undoubtedly have disappeared in a number of pockets. We all know that, and I hear the Minister here saying that she is asking these people to talk to each other. I don't think that's enough. There is a big problem here, which is also detrimental to the reputation of the Dutch business community, to take it with me immediately, and then I think this is a weak story, with all due respect. I would like a clearer and more forceful statement from the Minister on what she is going to do, and I hope that this will not be limited to compensating for the damage done by those growers, because I can get that impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	I'm making a second attempt, a little shorter than the first one. We really must have a critical dialogue with the Ethiopian government, because it must be encouraged to engage in this dialogue with these groups and with the opposition. The Ethiopian authorities are also being addressed and are now taking measures to this end. That must be done, whatever Mr Smaling thinks so. Then I come to my second point. Mr Smaling and I have talked about this before, and we are always in agreement. We are now talking to the opposition of Ethiopia or a body like NIMD can help with training, but I would also like to say to Mr Smaling that I will see again whether we can step up our commitment to land rights, for example by deploying the Dutch land register, and I am also prepared to report further on this in about three months' time. Those companies either got that land or bought it from the government. They have often done so in good faith, but I cannot guarantee that there are no problems and I am therefore happy to make this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether this is still the development model of the future. Is it not advisable, also because of the migratory pressure from Africa, to focus on connecting young people here and young people there and supporting them to develop entrepreneurship, and that we only support this type of trade activity by instructing the embassy to show entrepreneurs the way to do business in Ethiopia? This type of activity now dominates the trading part of the development agenda. Now you see what's happening and what image damage this is causing. I would therefore advise the Minister to consider the whole thinking about investing and trading with young people in the future by looking at a whole new, progressive spectacle, and not as we have been doing for years now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	With all due respect, Mr. Smaling is going through this a little bit. We have a large programme in Ethiopia in which we also focus, for example, on food security and sexual and reproductive rights, and of course we are also very committed to young people's employment, for example through the Dutch Good Growth Fund and other funds. At the same time, this represents 70,000 jobs for companies which, to a large extent, are in any case subject to compliance with the directives. It seems to me that whatever development model you're based on, it's part of creating jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u9	We have been to Ethiopia with the committee. There we found employees from various companies who were very satisfied with the training that was given on the premises and the hospital that was present at a company, which otherwise would not have been there. I therefore get a bit of a one-sided view of the way things are going through the speech of the SP. The Minister has just made a commitment to look at these negative points. Would she also like to look at the cases where things are going well? Otherwise, there will be a bit of an image as if it were only up to our companies. I distance myself from that on the basis of what I get and I hope that the Minister can also nuance that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u10	I think I just did so by pointing out that these Dutch companies are creating jobs for people living there, so there is no staff flown in in large numbers and that, as they say, they comply with the OCD's guidelines which are also about decent personnel policy. A hospital or a medical post on the premises is an example of that, as is paying decent salaries. I also said that the companies are being attacked because they are seen as an extension of the government. It's also a way of getting extra attention to the case. In itself, that does not really mean anything about the quality of companies. At the same time, there is a problem with land rights in Ethiopia. It seems to me to be a good idea to tackle this problem, possibly together with the companies, even more than we are doing now.
